ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e98	The representatives of Freddy de Ruiter, Inbjørg Amanda Vogskesen, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, Ketil Kjeseth, Geir Pollestad, Lene Wagslid and Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Jorid Holstad Nordmelan, has taken the seat. From the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås there is an application for study leave from 7 March to 17 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Sales Representative, Ingunn Gjerstad, is hereby invited to meet in Stortinget from 7 March to 14 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e153	Ingunn Gjerstad is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e164	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e169	On behalf of Ingunn Gjerstad and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to set up alternatives to detaining children in connection with the transportation under the Foreign Affairs Act. And on behalf of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Snorre Serigstad Valen and myself, I would like to make representations to secure human rights in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e176	The representative of Ms Olug V. Bollestad will make two representations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e181	On behalf of the representatives Knut Arild Hareide, Hans Fredrik Grövan, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on local hospital in Flekkefjord, Narvik and Odda. And on behalf of the representative Hans Fredrik Grövan and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on the tour arrangement for doctors.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e188	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e194	I am to present on behalf of the representatives of the elderly Per Olaf Lundteigen, Marit Arnstad, Janne Sjelmo Nordås and myself a proposal to create a specialty of education in emergency surgery, general surgery, and the necessary measures to strengthen the recruitment of surgeons for local hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e199	The representative, Mr Tvedt Solberg, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e204	On behalf of the representatives of the big business Dag Terje Andersen, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Else-May Botten, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Per Olaf Lundtägen, Geir Pollestad, Kirsti Bergstø, Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to submit a proposal for a representative to make the Act applicable to petroleum-related activities from vessels on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e209	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e227	The fourth year's foreign policy statement was referred to as mole vote. I would like to make this year's presentation in a slightly brighter tone. Fortunately, it is positive things to report: from improving living conditions, education and health for millions of poor people, through the win for democracy in the Gambia, continuing progress for peace in Colombia and Sri Lanka and more steps forward in the fight against ISIL, to normalising relations with China. But we have to take the whole picture of foreign policy into account. The international turmoil has sat down and challenges us in even more fundamental ways than we experienced last year. The crises in the Middle East and North and West Africa are deep. They continue to take thousands of human lives, motivate brutal terror, and send large groups of people on the run. The state system in the region, which was largely shaped by European major powers early in the last century, is under strong pressure. The Syrian conflict has gone on longer than World War II. Yemen has come into the shadow of other conflicts, but accommodates human suffering of unfathomable dimensions. The danger is great that temporary progress in conflict-affected regions will be accompanied by new and deeper crises for fragile state formations, with tragic results for the local population. Last year, 180 000 people crossed the Mediterranean to reach Italy. The political, economic and demographic developments that created the first great wave of refugees and migration remain serious. Although migration from Turkey towards Europe was reduced in 2016, migration will continue to challenge us in the future. The threat of terrorism has become part of Europe’s security challenges and, together with the migration challenges, shows how closely our own security has been intertwined with conflict areas south and east of the Mediterranean. The conflict in Ukraine is under way. Recently we experienced a new escalation with the loss of human life. Polarisation and conflict are increasing in many countries in Eastern Europe, the Balkans and Turkey. The pressure on the region from a more aggressive Russia is growing, while we see a more introverted EU that is struggling with isolation and cohesion in many countries. The financial crisis and its aftermath reinforced the turbulence of a globalised economy that has not managed to recover the original growth power, a growth force that is necessary to create the jobs and ensure the stability that we all want. Western-led attempts to promote democracy and stability in vulnerable countries south and east of the Mediterranean have not produced the desired results since 2001. The invasion of Iraq was a failure and had major negative ring-effects. Authoritarian regimes attach the grip in the name of stability. The promotion of democracy and human rights are counter-winding. Brexit and political developments in the United States illustrate how political power centers lose contact with large electoral groups. Waves of populism, mobilization against migration and dissatisfaction with economic policies threaten to weaken political institutions and stability. Evolution threatens to crack the liberal world order that has been built up in the last 70 years. While we have long taken for granted an ever-strengthening of this world order, we now ask ourselves how it can be maintained. The problems are deepened by a chaotic global information explosion. Our notions of true and false, right and wrong, are being challenged. More and more people in the world are being briefed through unedited, easily manipulated information platforms. The danger is increasing that individuals and groups will wall themselves inside their own echo chamber. More than ever, we need a critical public awareness of truth-seeking debate, while the conditions for this are being undermined in several places. Together, this challenges a lot of what we've achieved since World War II. But just when it's storming around us this way, it's important to be conscious of the victories we've won, and the institutions the world's society has built up in the last 70 years. It is this that gives us both platform, motivation and direction in the work to promote Norwegian interests and for a world order that respects the basic values, which means so much. Firstly, whether we use global, European or Norwegian glasses, the world has made enormous progress since 1945. In the wake of two world wars with tens of millions of deaths, we have stone on stone, step by step, year by year, built a world order that has ensured stability, peace, security, freedom, democracy and prosperity for ever larger parts of the world's rapidly growing population, with the UN Charter, international law and a comprehensive web of international institutions as the foundation. Secondly, in 1990 the free world’s victory illustrated the bursting power of freedom, democracy and human rights as a more and more universal basis of norms for modern nation states. No one should say that these standards are not being challenged today, but the UN Conventions on Human Rights stand firm. Threats to and violations of human rights are not new norms, but deviations from the basic norm on which our political societies are based. Thirdly, the end of the Cold War also meant the end of the struggle between rival economic systems. We are approaching a common economic reality based on liberal economic principles, free trade and a free business, within a sound multilateral framework. Fourth, in a historical perspective, economic growth has been unparalleled in the last seven decades. Growth has also been distributed — in no way perfect, but in a way that has raised billions of people out of poverty. Fifth, black smoke from factory pipes was long-standing positive expression of economic activity and a job to go to. In recent decades, the global community has taken on board the vulnerability of ecosystems, nature's tolerance limit, and climate change is one of the greatest threats to the well-being and security of future generations. The climate agreement of Paris 2015 and the ratification of the agreement last year, the new sustainability objectives and the comprehensive construction of global and regional environmental agreements represent environmental policy quantum leaps compared to the situation just a few decades ago. Together, these five points constitute a historically impressive European and global order that ensures that more and more of the world's citizens benefit from peace, freedom, democracy and well-being. To further develop these pillars of global order goes all the way to the core of Norwegian interests. Norway has been actively involved in the development of this construction work. We have placed ourselves well and really used the possibilities this world order has given us. We are well integrated into the European economy and are well off in global economic competition. Norway sets clear footprints as a technically advanced and forward-looking resource nation in areas such as energy, finance, shipping, maritime food and the blue economy. Let me give you some examples: we are based on our maritime weight and are world leaders in future industries such as green shipping and industrial and sustainable seafood production. The world looks at Norway when we go ahead with e.g. a forward-looking electric car policy. I would also like to mention CEPI, the new coalition for epidemiological preparedness and innovation. Here again, Norway is showing global health leadership. CEPI is a public-private coalition to develop vaccines against epidemics and pandemics, and in other ways to prevent future health crises. The initiative has attracted considerable international attention, and the headquarters remains in Oslo. We live in the times of the opposite. Epoch-promoting progress is now threatened by acute challenges to the word we have created. How do we understand, interpret and handle these changes? In my last year's presentation, I referred to it as a growing unforeseeability and vulnerability that we can no longer make progress for granted. I think a lot of the turmoil that is spreading now is associated with the great optimism that marked our part of the world from 1990 onwards. Some even predicted the end of history, in the sense that the West had won, no rival systems could again challenge democracy, freedom and the victory of the market economy worldwide. We therefore ask ourselves whether today's conflicts and unrest are temporary setbacks on a path to an increasingly better and safer world, or whether we are experiencing a new normal, a world that is becoming more dangerous, more unstable and more unpredictable. Unfortunately, there is little to suggest that the voltage level we are experiencing now will be reduced by the first. I think we need to be prepared for new and even more demanding challenges. To a great extent, we have taken the victory of democracy for granted. We have believed in rationality, an informed societal debate and the ability of our political systems to deal with globalisation and to distribute the benefits of globalisation to all peoples, on the ability of democracy to almost automatically advance the best leaders, and similarly on the capacity of the major societal political parties to renew and build society. We were not well enough prepared for how quickly the waves of migration, growing terrorist threat, economic and social alienation and lack of hope for the future put even the most robust social system under pressure. This is today's reality, when, in the coming months, Europe is faced with a series of important choices that can drive us further away from the political visions we've worked so hard to realize. Now it is more important than ever that we mobilise to consolidate democracy and the values we build on, recover momentum in response to our own challenges and the demanding conflict picture south and east of Europe, revitalise the impressive construction of institutions that make us much better equipped to solve crises than we have experienced in previous epochs, and step by step ensure that the major political crime lakes since 2014 become a short and instructive interplay rather than the new normal in international politics. The values and basic Norwegian interests are firm, but the challenges in the world around us demand continuous reflection on the basis of foreign policy choices and how we prioritise. Now, when I go from analysis to political action, I would like to highlight the following five pillars: Firstly, we must give priority to security, security and well-being for Norwegian citizens and Norwegian society. This is in the centre when the government will soon submit the Choice message. We shall be a clear, recognizable and predictable friend of our friends and allies. Transatlantic cooperation faces new challenges, but is important as never before. We are increasing investment in defence, in social security, and we are working with close allies in the conversion of NATO. Secondly, we must strengthen the already good relations with allies and friends in our neighbourhoods. The Nordic community is particularly important. European heavyweights, such as Germany, France and the United Kingdom, are key trading partners and are becoming increasingly relevant security anchors for Norway. In 2017, the G20 is an important platform for promoting Norwegian interests and international cooperation. Germany, head of the G20 this year, has invited Norway as a guest country. The German invitation comes because Norway and Germany are close to each other in the view of the world around us, and because we are already cooperating on the solution of many global problems. Thirdly, we continue to build the Norwegian society. Foreign and domestic policies are increasingly closely linked. A solid economy and a strong and mature democracy are unique resources in the face of foreign turbulence. We are pursuing an offensive interest policy, with the fight against protectionism and effective support for an increasingly globalised Norwegian business. We will later present in our history the first major report on the role of the sea in foreign and development policy. Together with the recently presented national maritime strategy, this demonstrates strong and innovative policies of interest in areas where Norway plays an important role in the world. Fourthly, it has never been more important to invest in the values on which our society is based and on which we want other countries to recognise as central features of Norway: freedom, human rights, democracy, equality, justice and respect for the environment. They are at the heart of the Norwegian social structure and of our international commitment. This, in turn, has contributed heavily to the achievement of the UN's sustainability objectives, where peacemaking, global education and global health are key Norwegian priorities. Fifthly, we will further strengthen our role and profile as a country seeking good cooperation solutions and investing heavily in them – in the neighbourhoods, in Europe and globally. Only in this way can we be a credible supporter of central international institutions that are now under greater pressure than ever since World War II. These five points give the essence of government’s foreign policy in line with today’s extremely demanding environment: responsible realism – realism because foreign policy needs priority of national interests, fundamental security and well-being, responsible because a well-functioning regional and global world order is anchored in strong institutions and effective cooperation is crucial for the realisation of Norwegian interests. Responsible realism means a clear but also balanced and balanced policy when our values and interests are challenged as we see today. This applies not least in meeting countries and actors with political systems and priorities other than our own. That doesn't mean we're going to change or underestimate important values, but it means classical and clever diplomacy in encounter with an increasingly multipolar world order. Often it will focus on results more than symbols, more dialogue and less megaphone, identifying common interests and building on them and combining firmness with humility and willingness to understand the starting point of others. Geopolitics are not least about geography. If I am to highlight one important consequence of today's foreign policy turbulence, it is that we need to focus more on our neighbourhoods. Geographical proximity, community of values and strong economic, political and security interests are moving in the same direction. Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe. Nordic and European countries, such as Germany, France and the United Kingdom, become even more important partners than before. The emphasis of the Government on the Arctic is a central dimension of a strengthened neighbourhood policy. The Nordic regions are Norway’s main area of foreign policy interest. We are presenting a new and offensive north-eastern strategy later in the spring. It's going well in the Norwegian part of the Arctic. In Nordland, Troms and Finnmark, more than 4,000 new businesses were created in 2015. Growth is higher and unemployment is lower than in the rest of the country. The government's Northern Territory Initiative is this year's 3.4 billion. kr, almost 75 pst. more than what was proposed in the State budget for 2013. The most important resource in the north is not the fish or the oil, but the people. Attractive societies, good infrastructure, good schools, universities, research environments and interesting jobs are needed to create viable communities. Norway places the northern regions on the world map. We play a leading role in Arctic Cooperation Forums as Arctic Councils. The Council has evolved into the main area of cooperation in the Arctic. The increased activity in Arctic seas places high demands on both Norwegian preparedness and cooperation with other Arctic countries on security and preparedness. We are doing important diplomatic work towards the EU in order to bring about the importance of maritime law and a good balance between sustainability, use and protection. The growing interest in the Arctic means that we need to strengthen our north-eastern diplomacy further. I myself was in Brussels a few weeks ago, with the Arctic high on the agenda. For Norway, the sea is a way of life. In order to use marine resources, we need to protect and manage the marine environment as best we can. The neighbourhood of Russia in the north is a constant and important factor in Norwegian North Region policy. Norway wants a good neighbourly relationship. I look forward to meeting Minister of Foreign Affairs Sergei Lavrov at an Arctic Conference in Arkhangelsk later in March. Our line is solid, consistent and predictable. We are recognizable both in our will and in our ability to cooperate effectively and in our attitudes to fundamental issues. Together with other Arctic states, we are working for an Arctic marked by stability and cooperation anchored in the Law of the Sea. Norway and Russia have extensive cooperation, including: related to nuclear safety, the environment and fisheries management in the north, coastguard and border cooperation, as well as to people-to-people cooperation. The extension of the border zone to include the entire Nest came into force on 4 March, and we signed last year a protocol on the warning of nuclear incidents. Together, we stopped the asylum flow over Storskog. An agreement on the collection of seismics up to and including the demarcation line between our two countries will be signed in the near future. In the next few months, there will be three Commission meetings with Russia at political level, the Economic Commission, the Environment Commission and the Nuclear Safety Commission. Cooperation in education and research also works well. On the other hand, we will continue to follow closely the Russian military build-up in the north. The image is marked by the modernisation of materials and equipment, new capacities, greater military activity, more complex exercises and reopening of military infrastructure in the Arctic. We used, among other things: NATO Summit in Warsaw last summer to look at the strategic maritime situation in the north. The Nordic countries are key partners in the Northern Region policy. In a more troubled world, Nordic cooperation is increasingly important. In recent years, our Nordic everyday life has been more directly influenced by international issues. The crises are drawing closer. There are several challenges both internationally and in our neighbourhoods. Norway is the leader of a number of Nordic cooperation forums this year. We will use this role to strengthen Nordic cooperation in foreign and security policy. Security policy is particularly important to share information, assessments and proposals for actions that provide the basis for common situational understanding and management, including in the event of crises. We are increasingly participating in each other's military exercises, inside and outside NATO, demonstrating to the outside world that Nordic countries take security seriously. I have close and continuous contact with my Nordic colleagues. Such informal contact and exchange of experience between neighbouring countries is particularly valuable when we are storming around the world. Storms do the same when we look at the rest of Europe. The start of the EU-UK callout negotiations is just around the corner, and a new partnership will be established. A comprehensive trade agreement is high on the British wish list. It also makes arrangements for cooperation against crime and terrorism. It is important to find good solutions to ensure continued close cooperation between the United Kingdom and the EU in these areas, not least in foreign policy, because the need for a strong European voice in international policy has rarely been greater. The Government is in close contact with Brussels, London and other central hubs to promote Norwegian interests in this process. A major priority is, of course, to ensure that we have a new framework for our economic relations with the United Kingdom. Our clear objective is that new arrangements, temporary or permanent, will continue to regulate our trade with the United Kingdom as soon as it exits the EU and the internal market. We are also paying attention to the further development of cooperation between the 27 countries that will continue to operate the EU without the United Kingdom. The Commission has just presented its ideas and proposals in a White Paper on the future of the European Union. We have to expect that we will also see new proposals for further deepening EU cooperation on security and defence policy. Here, it is essential that Norway remains close, because the EU continues to be Norway’s second most important market and a very valuable political partner. The Government is therefore holding back the EEA Agreement, which ensures economic growth, jobs and well-being. In April, the EEA Minister and the EU Minister make their own statement to the Storting on these important issues. In the last year, the members of the government have deliberately stepped up contact with European colleagues. We promote Norwegian interests and share our views on both the Brexit process and Europe's challenges for the rest. We are also closely following developments along the borders of the EU. The whole area of candidate and potential candidate countries to the EU is within a period of increased tension. The conflict in Syria and Iraq is taking place in Turkey, while the internal tension in the country is becoming increasingly acute and worrying. The stability of the Balkans can no longer be taken for granted. Internal contradictions, political crises and interference from third countries in several of the countries may turn into new crises in the region. Norway will increase efforts to ensure stability and development in the Western Balkans. Since the so-called Arab Spring of 2011, the Middle East conflict scene has become increasingly complex and has become more and more involved. The new conflict scene in the Middle East coincides with a challenging development in the sub-Saharan and African Horn countries and an increasing migratory pressure from many African countries. Geopolitically, Russia’s entry into the region, together with a more proactive role of regional actors, has changed the conflict management parameters. It also confronts Turkey and NATO with a new security policy situation. Russia, Iran and Turkey now have the most central role in negotiations between the parties in Syria. However, in order to achieve a lasting and sustainable solution, it is essential that all parties to the Syrian conflict contribute, and the role of the United Nations will be crucial. The UN-led Syria talks in Geneva last week were a little step in the right direction. International efforts to combat ISIL in Iraq and Syria have gradually reduced the impact of the terrorist organisation, but the war on ISIL is still under way and there is a danger that ISIL will also be able to establish itself in other areas of the region. Norway contributes on a number of fronts to the work on peace and stability in the Middle East. The government has previously reported Norway’s efforts in the fight against ISIL. Norway has also contributed to the transport of chemical weapons from Syria and has practically facilitated a negotiated agreement on Iran’s nuclear programme. Norway assumes great responsibility as a humanitarian contributor to the civilian population affected by these conflicts. We pay particular attention to the pressing situation of persecuted religious minorities, and we are an active partner in international efforts to prevent and limit refugee and migration flows towards Europe. The Norwegian Presidency of the donor country group for Palestine is one of Norway’s main contributions to the work for peace in the Middle East. The group is among the few channels that continue to bring together the parties to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict for constructive talks. Despite broad consensus in the international community on a two-state solution, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict remains unresolved. Acts of violence and settlement extensions reduce the scope of solutions based on the Oslo agreement. Our efforts to contribute to conflict resolution and stabilisation between the parties are intensified, together with support for peace and reconciliation initiatives elsewhere in the region. We give priority to supporting countries where political developments have taken a clearly positive direction, as in Tunisia. We are also committed to resolving conflicts in the Horn of Africa and in the Sahel region. The situation in South Sudan is going from bad to worse, and now also with famine that affects millions of already hard-pressed people. We've decided to allocate 135 million. kr to acute humanitarian needs in 2017. Our efforts to contribute to conflict resolution and stability remain a high priority. Prioritisation of Europe and its neighbourhoods is a key conclusion of the Road Selection Communication, which is presented in a few weeks – foreign policy and, to a large extent, security policy as well. Europe is now working to take greater responsibility for its own security. It has implications not only for defence cooperation between European allies but also for foreign policy priorities in a much wider sense. We're going to continue our traditional security policy based on deterrence and tranquillity. The dual approach has been effective. A new long-term defence plan strengthens the defence of Norway and NATO's collective defence. We are neither – nor will – strong enough to defend ourselves alone. The defence of Norway takes place within the framework of the NATO collective defence cooperation. This is how we achieve defensiveness and credible deterrence. We participate in NATO's new concept of enhanced advanced presence in the East, so-called "enhanced forward presence". We now place in 2017 among others. with 200 soldiers in Lithuania for six months, in cooperation with Germany and the Netherlands. In this way, we contribute to the deterrence of the alliance while strengthening already close military cooperation with important European allies. The NATO collective security guarantee is necessary and must be credible. We therefore give priority to strengthening NATO's capacity to provide collective defence throughout the region of the alliance. Important work has been done here, but much remains. Norway takes responsibility, inter alia: by leading one of NATO’s standing maritime forces throughout 2017. We've seen a more self-reliant Russia in recent years. The detention of Crimea was not just a serious violation of international law. Trust has also been broken. Russian actions create uncertainty. The security policy image in Europe has changed. We need to rebuild confidence to reduce the voltage level. Compliance with the Minsk Agreement will be an important step in that direction. We are dealing with Russia in a predictable, consistent, clear and firm way. We must help to reduce doubt, uncertainty and misunderstandings — and thus the potential for conflict and undesirable behaviour. An important part of the sedative policy is that we understand and recognise that Russia has legitimate security interests in the Arctic and that we therefore pay attention to them in our policies. This has been respected on the Russian side and served both Norwegian and Allied interests in the north. Deterrence and tranquilisation policies, established during the Cold War, represent a consensus and important framework for Norwegian security policy. This shall be continued. The government continues a long line in Norwegian security policy in its work on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. We are working systematically to achieve the goal of a world without nuclear weapons, in line with the Storting's unanimous decision of 26 April last year. Real and sustained progress on disarmament is not achieved with a pen stroke but through full implementation of the obligations of the non-proliferation agreement, NTP, and balanced, reciprocal, irreversible and verifiable disposal of nuclear weapons. Norway promoted last year a UN resolution on verification with almost unison digestion. We will continue to work within the UN to strengthen the verification mechanisms, while continuing the close cooperation we have with, among other things. Great Britain about this. The government is committed to international efforts to prevent non-governmental actors from accessing weapons of mass destruction and nuclear material. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) plays a central role in this, together with a number of international actions and initiatives. The nuclear agreement with Iran has strengthened efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The agreement is a great victory for the international community. Norway has taken an active part. The International Atomic Energy Agency reported last month that Iran has removed excess centrifuges and infrastructure from the enrichment plant in Fordow, in line with its contractual obligations. One of the most serious challenges we are facing is the nuclear programme of North Korea and the country's development of missiles capable of carrying such weapons. The international community must be united in its efforts towards this development. The international community must also stand united in condemning and preventing the use of chemical weapons, as we have seen in Syria. Here, the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, OPCW, which has a 20th anniversary this year, continues to play a central role. In my time as Minister of Foreign Affairs, I have put great emphasis on maintaining and strengthening cooperation with the United States. I was last in Washington, D.C. last week, meeting a number of representatives of the U.S. authorities. The talks were consistently positive, and Norway is perceived as an important ally and partner in solving regional and global issues. Not least, our peace and reconciliation work is highly valued. A prerequisite for such a close and confidential relationship is that we appear to be a relevant partner. We show that we are. Close military cooperation and participation in international operations are central. The fight against ISIL stands as an important confirmation of our will and ability to take responsibility. I have also focused on contributing to the work related to disarmament and non-proliferation. Skewing Norwegian governments have prioritised cooperation with changing American administrations. The United States is our most important ally. Norway is dependent on a good relationship with the United States. Our cooperation with the United States has historical roots and ranges wide. Our close relationship with the United States makes it easy for us to address issues where we disagree — a recent example is the US ban on entry, which came in a new form yesterday. This applies regardless of who's president, and regardless of which party has a majority in Congress. I feel that there is a broad consensus about this in Stortinget. The new administration of President Trump is only going so far. In several areas the policy has not yet been defined. We see signs of unfortunate changes in key policy areas such as trade, climate and development policy. In recent weeks, however, we have received positive signals confirming the US's commitment to transatlantic cooperation and NATO solidarity through Article 5. Europe has responded with a clear understanding of increased responsibility for its own security, including its willingness to provide more for the defence of alliances. The rapprochement of NATO has always been strong in Congress. Many Republican heavyweights have shown this on several occasions. I also heard this message during my visit to the United States last week. We must also take on board the fact that many of the driving forces that seem to color the current administration agenda in the United States are probably so strong in Europe and elsewhere in the world. Nevertheless, today’s situation demands strategic patience and targeted engagement with Norwegian interests in the United States. We must not least convey that a strong and united Europe is in the interest of the United States. We're already doing this. The strong and deep relationship we have built up over time, wide-ranging inwards in American society, today appears more important than ever. For the government, a normalisation of the relationship between Norway and China has been a priority from the first day. During my visit to Beijing on 19 December last year, the relationship was finally resolved. This is a result of long-term and patient diplomatic work. Normalisation is an important and positive turning point in the relationship between our two countries. In essence, mutual respect and national interests lie. China’s role in the world is growing, and Norway is becoming increasingly important. The significance for the Norwegian economy and business is evident. Resumption of negotiations on a trade agreement is a high priority. China also has significant political influence, both in Asia and globally. President Xi Jinping's clear message on free trade and on protectionism in Davos recently was important, and support for the Paris climate agreement as well. They are an expression of how China takes responsibility for multilateral cooperation. The timing couldn't have been more important. At the same time, there are clear differences between Norway and China in views and attitudes to many issues. We are not naive to the policies and ambitions of any major powers. The positive thing is that we now have opportunities to develop a broad engagement policy towards Beijing. An increasing number of Chinese operators are becoming aware of Norwegian interests and positions. We work together in conflict areas such as South Sudan and in our peace and reconciliation work in Afghanistan. The record-breaking Chinese delegation to Arctic Frontiers in Tromsø now in January was exposed to Norwegian north-eastern politics at its best: deep-seated knowledge, responsible resource management and inclusive Arctic diplomacy. The basis for both security policy and the broader work of a well-organised world order lies international law, the belief that power is just ahead of it. This is how we can summarize the lessons of two world wars on European soil in one sentence. This applies to all countries, but not least to small countries with regional major acts as neighbours. That is why the work to maintain and strengthen the liberal world order that I initially spent time is so important – and most of all now. For the first time in 70 years, we see a real possibility of a systematic decline in multilateral cooperation. We have to do everything we can to avoid that. The UN is and remains the spinal cord of international cooperation. No other organisation has a legitimacy to agree on global standards and to hammer out concrete joint solutions. The universalisation of sustainability objectives provides a unique political platform for the UN. The unanimous election of Antonio Guterres to the new Secretary General was joyous news. He meets great expectations and has already shown impressive leadership qualities. The Prime Minister and I have already met Guterres on several occasions. Through the UN70 project, we have set a forward-looking agenda that the Secretary-General shows in both words and actions that he greatly appreciates. The fact that we did this together with countries from other continents gave us an impact. Such alliance construction provides results and is also effective networking for Norwegian interests. Norway is working as a known member of the Security Council in 2021–2022. It is part of a long-term policy to safeguard Norwegian strategic interests in the UN. In addition to supporting the global and systemic role of the UN Security Council in the world, Norwegian participation will provide opportunities to promote other Norwegian interests and priorities. Globalisation and trade agreements have served Norway and the world well throughout the post-war period. Meeting new attitudes and changing values in Europe and the United States, we need to demonstrate in practice that global and multilateral cooperation works to the best of our citizens. Globalisation has brought millions of people out of extreme poverty. Trade and today's multilateral system have contributed to the strong achievement of the UN's Millennium Goals. Continuing this positive development requires a reinforced integration of poor countries into the world economy. It provides access to local and global markets and opens up import, investment and technology. We must work to prevent increasing inequality and ensure better distribution. It is about good and forward-looking national policies, with a focus not least on education, national resource mobilisation and the ability to convert. Protectionism is the wrong medicine. For Norway, the multilateral trading system in the WTO is and will be our central foreign economic framework, complemented by bilateral free trade agreements. The WTO is unique in that all countries have similar rights and obligations, follow the same rules, have transparency and dialogue on policies and are bound by binding dispute settlements. If the credibility and discipline of the WTO are weakened, we are at risk of large countries and economies taking advantage of their power and facilitating them. Then trade war could be next. This year’s presentation is much about the neighbourhoods, security policies and efforts to strengthen the multilateral framework that means so much to Norway. This is due to the seriousness of current foreign policy and the government's clear stance on prioritising national interests. But there is no contradiction between an interest-based policy and our contribution to poverty reduction and sustainable development. In practice, we show how integration of foreign and development policies increases our overall space for foreign policy action. Increased efforts against vulnerable countries provide a basis for development. Successful development prevents large migratory waves and reduces the basis for radicalisation and terrorism. Developments are generating growth, which in turn increases market opportunities for Norwegian businesses. Human rights are at the heart of both foreign and development policy. Freedom of expression, the protection of minorities and the fight against the death penalty are central. The same thing happens to women, equality and the rights of LHBTI people. I look forward to coming to Stortinget this spring with a separate communication on sustainability goals and key issues in Norwegian development policy, not least to taking stock and discussing prospects for key policy areas such as education, health, the environment, climate and industrial development in poor countries. Today, I give priority to some perspectives on humanitarian aid. The humanitarian budget has never been higher. For the first time, Norway budgets more than 5 billion. in humanitarian response to crises and conflicts. That's an increase of over 50 pst. Norway is the fifth largest donor country to Syria and the region, with a total contribution of around 2.7 billion. kr in 2016. The UN estimates that up to 130 million people need emergency aid. The appeal for 2017 is bigger than ever. Humanitarian aid is primarily about immediate lifesaving efforts. Humanitarian law and humanitarian principles are fundamental. We also have a responsibility to create opportunities for development and hope for the future in areas of war and crisis. Therefore, the government has stepped up its efforts to clear mines and class ammunition. Therefore, where possible, we will replace food aid with cash and seed to contribute to food production and stimulate local markets. That is why we will continue the international driving role of education in crisis. It is also more important than ever that Norway actively participates in international cooperation to find sustainable solutions to the refugee crisis. When refugees and migrants get attention in the media picture, we should not forget all those who are displaced in their own countries, for example. in northeastern Nigeria, where 1.8 million have been forced away from their homes because of the Boko Haram terrorist organisation. The Trump administration’s decision to refuse support for development-oriented health organisations that inform about abortion as part of the health service is very regrettable. Norway has recently granted 85 million. to go to organisations affected by these restrictions and will continue to cooperate with like-minded countries to counter the effects of such policies. Norway will continue its international commitment to defending and strengthening women’s rights both in the UN and at country level. This is the last foreign policy statement in this magnificence period. There has been a challenging time for Norwegian foreign and security policy. The Government has therefore placed emphasis on clarity, predictability, priority of the most important and investment in binding international cooperation. The sustainability objectives and the Paris Agreement of 2015 were important global breakthroughs that are central to Norwegian policy, both at home and abroad. We've achieved a lot in the last four years. In a very challenging time, we have maintained agreement in this room on the broad lines of foreign policy. Cooperation with the Stortinget has been good and close, which has been important for Norway. We have pursued a steady and clear security policy with heavy investment in defence, in cooperation with our main allies in Europe and NATO. We have continued and strengthened the Northern Region policy at a time of increased geopolitical tension, low oil prices and increased concern for climate change. Patient and durable diplomacy resulted in a balanced and good agreement on the resumption of full diplomatic relations between Norway and China. We have led a forward-looking development policy anchored in the sustainability goals, with the doubling of education assistance, a strong increase in humanitarian aid and an ambitious global health policy as central milestones. We have further developed an effective Norwegian peace diplomacy, among others. in Colombia and the Philippines, anchored in an overall strategy for Norwegian action in vulnerable countries. And last but not least, we have increased efforts for Norwegian business and Norwegian citizens abroad. More than 1.3 million consular enquiries have been handled since the fall of 2013, including some very demanding detention and imprisonment cases. These points add up to the responsible realism I mentioned earlier in the presentation: uncompromising work for Norwegian interests, extensive efforts to strengthen the multilateral framework, to secure the benefits of 70 years of building a well-functioning world order, in order for justice to prevail over power.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e428	The President will propose that the Secretary of State's statement be discussed at a later meeting in the Grand Duchy. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e445	I use the opportunity to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the exciting presentation, which we will discuss later. I noticed in it – which probably many others also did – that the relationship with the United States and the newly elected president was little mentioned. Norway has a good and very important relationship with the United States. We're gonna go on with that. But, as the Foreign Minister pointed out in his presentation, recognition and predictability, is an important feature of friends, and it is important that Norway is recognizable and predictable in the policy we have always pursued when we meet a new policy from a new American administration. President Trump's 'America first' policy signals a whole new line for the United States — an isolationist and internationally introverted line with isolation and less emphasis on international cooperation. Norway will play a major role, and it is therefore important for Norway’s own interests to develop a clear counterweight policy. I believe that this policy must be based on informed self-interest and on putting the world first. It must mean that Norway must build international cooperation on alternatives in the environment, climate, trade, solidarity and security. There must be clear disagreement with the United States where necessary. And we need to strengthen the dialogue with forces in the United States that are more in agreement with us. I would therefore like to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs on how Norway can actively help to counteract the decline in international cooperation signalled by the President of the United States. At the same time, Norway must continue the historic good and tight transatlantic cooperation that we have had with the United States through generations. President Trump's signals are causing fear and unrest all over the world. Nevertheless, in his meeting with the new United States Secretary of State, Tillerson, the Foreign Minister did not take up thoughts – as counterbalance to American dwindling in internationally vital areas – such as cooperation with the United Nations, reproductive health, climate and environment. The Green Party believes that a strong counterweight policy must be developed in all these areas. Norwegian security and defence policy is also heavily dependent on the international security situation, and in that perspective, Washington signals are so far worrying. Fortunately, at the recent meeting of the Trump administration, the Brende expressed a commitment to NATO and reassured its European allies – to some extent – that US commitments are maintained. However, we note with concern that there are strong counterclaims from the United States, which do not allow for postponement or interpretation. These we have to meet with clear opposites. The United States cannot dictate Norwegian defence policy. A signal Norway has to consider sending is among other things. that future purchases of the fighter aircraft F-35 will be assessed against our security towards the United States as a responsible global actor and ally. Our policy towards the United States and transatlantic cooperation must be intensified on two lines: on the one hand, a counter-weight policy where Norway emphasises measures that can to some extent offset the loss of US intervention, in particular in the multilateral field; on the other hand, a strategy for the visibility of common interests It will make Norway a still interesting and important partner for the United States. As a counterbalance to an American policy that is different from what we have been used to, Norway now needs to strengthen more areas of action. This applies not least to climate policy. Norway has to be a country of priority for real climate action, while joining alliances with other like-minded countries for concrete and ambitious measures to follow up the Paris climate agreement. We should propose that such alliances, not least with the EU and our Nordic neighbours, specifically discuss countermeasures if the United States is serious about withdrawing from the Paris Agreement. There may be climate taxes on American goods or similar measures. Norway may also directly affect the United States. Norway has strong cooperation with the United States through the pension fund. We create an estimated 470,000 jobs in the United States, of which an estimated 390,000 are the result of investments in the pension fund. Therefore, we should now be pleased that the pension fund has been drawn out of coal. The Pension Fund should therefore also be used as an active counterweight to an energy policy of the kind of President Trump warns, in order to avoid becoming an economic contributor to such a policy. In concrete terms, Norway should gradually withdraw the Oil Fund from all fossil investments and increase investments in renewable energy and infrastructure. And we should focus on that, not least in investment in the United States. A strong and clear Nordic cooperation, which fortunately was also in the hands of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is vital in a new international context. Both in a counterweight policy and in terms of a security and defence policy, we share historical values with our Nordic neighbours, and it must now be vitalised and concrete in several fields. We therefore propose that, in the immediate future, a Nordic meeting of foreign ministers should be convened, where a unified and common Nordic counterweight strategy is addressed. At the same time as a counterweight strategy, we have to show the Trump administration that Norway, which is the country with the northernmost settlement in the Arctic, with a significant responsibility in the north, is of vital interest in American self-interest. About 80 pst. of Arctic shipping passing through Norwegian waters. Norway may have the most significant administrative responsibility in the north globally, and our neighbourhood with Russia is a very important factor that we need to promote in the dialogue. By taking its commitments seriously in the north, Norway is also promoting global security and American self-interests, both in the north and globally. We have to work with the United States in order for the Arctic to remain a peaceful low-voltage area. It's of mutual interest and should still dissipate hearing in Washington. In the Arctic Council, Norway needs to seek more alliances with Canada in order to pursue the policy launched by former President Obama and Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in December, with the objectives of: « ensuring a strong, sustainable and viable Arctic economy and ecosystem, with low-impact shipping, science based management of marine resources, and free from the future risks of offshore oil and gas activity.» [[...]] Norway should make this concrete by proposing a moratorium on oil and gas activity in the Arctic as part of the further UN climate negotiations. And Norway should, of course, show the way by ending new Norwegian oil exploration and calling in the Barents Sea. As a NATO member and Russia-nabo, Norway should further develop and place even greater emphasis on an autonomous position in order to contribute to dialogue, tranquillity and disarmament on both sides. It is an essential self-interest for Norway that NATO's missile shield does not trigger a conflict escalation with Russia. Norway has had a pending attitude to the rocket shield, including: not to provoke Russia. In 2017, Norway may be entering NATO’s controversial missile shield. This will be a shift in line with what former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg in Moscow in 2007 made clear: Norway should not participate in the rocket shell. Reinforced by President Trump's foreign policy, the Greens believe that Norway should continue – I stress it – to have a waiting attitude on the missile shield and, at first, to work to make NATO understand that this is of great importance for the security of the alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e493	Norway has close and good relations with the United States. This is due to historical ties and political priorities. Skewing Norwegian governments have prioritised cooperation with changing American administrations. This has served us well throughout the post-war period. Norway is dependent on a good relationship with the United States. It is absolutely vital to our security and to promote Norwegian interests in a troubled world. The United States is – and will remain – Norway’s most important allies. During my visit to Washington last week, I had conversations with others. the new Foreign Minister, Rex Tillerson, other representatives of the administration and several leading politicians in Congress. The purpose of the visit was both to build relations with the new administration and to bring Norwegian messages in important areas to an early stage while the policy of administration is still under design. Norway is being taken seriously, and we are being listened to. One important reason for this is that Norway appears to be a relevant, reliable and credible partner for the United States. Norway is a country that provides for collective security and common interests. We've shown this a number of times, for example. in Afghanistan, through our efforts to combat the ISIL terrorist organisation, our participation in the transport of chemical weapons from Syria and our commitment to peace and reconciliation. This is being noticed in Washington. So it's not that our good relationship with the United States prevents us from saying from when we disagree, on the contrary, that makes it possible for us to reach out with our message. It applies regardless of who's president, and regardless of the power balance in Congress. This is an undisputed strength for Norwegian foreign and security policy. Fuzzy and partly contradictory foreign policy signals and the polarisation of the political system in the United States have created uncertainty and concern among both allies and other countries in Europe. However, with regard to safety policy, which is of particular importance for Norway, reassuring signals have been received. President Trump and representatives of his administration have given clear assurances over the past few weeks that this administration too will place great emphasis on NATO and the transatlantic cooperation that is so fundamental to Europe's security. That was the main message when Vice-President Pence, Foreign Minister Tillerson and Minister of Defence Mattis visited Europe just three weeks ago. The same message underlined President Trump in his speech to Congress a week ago. This was also repeated in my meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Tillerson last week. NATO will therefore continue to be the cornerstone of the transatlantic security policy. The U.S. is loaded and broken with its allies in the defense of the alliance. At the same time, we must recognise that a better burden-sharing is essential for the strength and future of the alliance. This was also a clear message from the Obama administration. Europe must show greater willingness to pay for the transatlantic security guarantee. There will be one of the main issues at the informal NATO summit in Brussels later this spring. It will also be the first time that NATO Heads of Government meet President Trump. The Trump administration has also launched initiatives that could indicate worrying changes in key policy areas such as trade, climate, development policy, refugee, migration and immigration policy, international cooperation, gender equality and family planning. As I said in my foreign policy statement earlier today, such games are part of a general global development in which international rules, cooperation and trade are under increasing pressure. This is a development that is contrary to Norwegian interests. Norway’s prosperity and security are created through cooperation with others. International conventions and strong institutions, based on the principles of the United Nations Charter, are essential to take care of the advances we have made since the last world war. The importance of enhanced international cooperation for peace, security and development is therefore an important Norwegian message to the United States as well as to other allies and cooperation partners. In the fight against man-made climate change, the United States was an important international driver under the previous Presidential administration. With the signals so far coming from the Trump administration, we must be prepared that this American leadership will not continue in the next few years. Of course, it would be a serious setback for global climate cooperation if the United States were to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. Together with other countries, we will try to influence the US administration not to take such a step. It'll be an important task for the government. However, I would strongly warn against using criminal or other trade policy instruments to influence the US climate policy, as the representative suggests in his interpellation. Not only will such measures be inappropriate to influence the US climate policy in a positive direction; it will also break with important commercial policy principles that Norway has a strong self-interest in being followed. Although today’s situation demands strategic patience and targeted commitment to Norwegian interests towards the United States, we must not forget that we have also previously had divergent views from the United States on important issues, including: as regards the invasion of Iraq. As under former Presidential Administrations, the government has close contact with central actors in Congress. It's important to influence the direction of American politics, regardless of who's sitting in the White House. We will continue to promote the importance of constructive American participation in international institutions and cooperation forums. For Norway, it is particularly important that the United States see the UN as a relevant framework for achieving both developmental and security policy objectives, including the fight against terrorism and violent extremism. Not least, we will continue to communicate that a strong and united Europe is in the interest of the United States. Finally, I would like to stress that I am pleased that the representative is protesting against protectionism and the dismantling of international trading systems. International trade is one of our main instruments in global growth, prosperity, development and peace. Therefore, our message to the United States is that all countries should make use of and respect the obligations and rights of the multilateral trading system in the WTO. Only national interests are not served. This applies to small countries, but also too large.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e529	I thank you for the answer from the Secretary of State, who is clarifying in some areas, but at the same time is clearly reticent in recognizing the fact that the policy announced by the new American administration and the president is in a completely different class than the disagreements we have had with the United States in previous long-term cooperation. The political choices and signals sent by the Trump administration are contrary to the fundamental interests of Norway, and it is necessary to meet them with a clear counter-policy. It will be exciting to see what the Road Selection Communication has to do with more concrete action in this area, but for the time being we get the impression that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is pleased that the United States confirms its relationship with NATO, and otherwise there are other important issues. The fact that the US signals extracts from the Paris Agreement cannot be treated as a common foreign policy change. It will rock global climate cooperation, and I urge the strongest government to take seriously the fact that such action will have to be met with more than disagreement. It has to meet with alerted countermeasures that can actually make an impression in Washington. Just what the countermeasures should be, one can come back to, but there is cooperation with Nordic colleagues, with the EU and with China and other countries that stick to their Paris obligations, very important to go further. The same applies to equality and assistance. It is very good that the Norwegian government has set up, but precisely because that kind of move is also seen in other countries, in Latin America and in European countries where women's rights in connection with abortion and other conditions are undermined in a way that few thought the world would face in 2017, it is particularly important that Norway is much clearer than we have been to now. Finally, the state pension fund abroad is not a politically neutral tool no matter how many times we say it. The question is not whether it has an impact on foreign policy, the question is which, and it is important that the government also takes over investment in the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e538	My visit to Washington and conversations with the U.S. administration last week were able to enable us to continue our close and close cooperation with the United States. Not least, it is important for us in the area of security policy. There we have also received significant clarifications. In Washington, D.C., Norway has an ecosystem of friends built up over many decades and under changing Norwegian governments. In the United States, there are also many different interests and many different actors that have great influence. Not least, it is now important for us to have close contact with important senators. During the Munich meeting a few weeks ago, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence and I met eight of these central senators. There we discussed everything from NATO and NATO solidarity to environmental and climate policy. We also discussed the issue of development policy and reproductive health. Our goal must now be to have the greatest possible impact on a new administration, even in those areas where we see a number of questions differently. I think that we can have the greatest impact by working constructively and also promoting our views. The representative Hansson said that in my post I addressed this with NATO and NATO solidarity, but let me, for example. climate. I have now found my post again, and I think there are at least three pages there – but in great writing – that cover this with climate. I said, of course, it would be a serious setback for global climate cooperation if the United States were to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. Together with other countries, we will try to influence the US administration not to take such a step. The proposal from the representative Hansson – which I commented on – on a criminal duty, I ask you to think very thoroughly through. I think we agree on the importance of, for example, that. The WTO is not now being weakened. There is nothing called criminal duty in the international trade legislation, and there is no specified WTO legal basis for this. When it comes to starting to rock through the multilateral system now – at such a time – to invent a base that is not in the international trading system, I think we should think thoroughly about. The government will not work for this. We're going to try to influence politics so that there's also to be ownership to fight increased CO 2 emissions and climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e554	It's not just the Secretary of State who's been to Washington. It also has the Foreign Affairs Committee, the week after the introduction of the new president, and we have also been vegetating on the foreign minister called the ecosystem of Norwegian friends in Washington. It was interesting meetings we had in Washington, both with representatives of think tanks and in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Pentagon. One of the people we met from the thought tank said we just had to be aware that we were now facing an out-of-the-box president. I guess we have that experience – we did it the week we were gone, and not least afterwards. What struck them was what they reflected, that for the first time they faced a new administration where there was no special program for what they were going to do. There were a lot of slogans and Twitter messages, which were the main source of interpretation of which policy could come, and I think the key chord that is still there is uncertainty. That's the most important label we can put on the situation. Then there have been some disturbing signals. They withdrew from the TPP agreement, which seems strange, all the time you are also dedicated to improving the trade balance with China and preventing China from strengthening its influence in that area. It is said that the new trade representative has twice been in contact with Germany to reach a free trade agreement with the Germans, so it is known that the EU has that competence. And we have seen changes in development policy, cut family planning, as also mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, where several countries have reacted to increasing appropriations. There is uncertainty about climate policy, and we see what is happening in immigration policy. I think it might be a tough thing to be a good ally in the years that are coming, but we've already said and have to do it again – tell in the areas where we disagree, how close allies and good friends should do. But for a country that attaches great importance to upholding the international institutions, treaties and agreements, it would be entirely Galileo’s – if it is a parliamentary expression – to raddle with the shackles in terms of climate tariffs and criminal tariffs on American goods as a counter-measure to something that might come. I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we should stick to the structures and international cooperation that are, and try to counteract, prevent the Americans from withdrawing from those agreements. Rather, we have to try to make them understand that it is through international cooperation the way to do the ‘America great again’ also goes, not through isolationism.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e565	In fact, this statement is on a list here, but the President found no reason to charge it within the context mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e570	I first want to thank the representative for taking up the interpellation, because it gives us the opportunity to confirm our relationship with our most important ally, the United States. I would also like to thank you for a very good response from our foreign minister, who in most of the shades he was challenged to, gave good and clear answers on Norway's position. Hansson himself refers to Norway’s historical relationship with the United States – and of course we should keep that. That means we have to act wisely and continue good relations with the new president as well. And as the Foreign Minister himself pointed out, he has already had good and constructive meetings with representatives of the new administration. It's very positive and shows a mutual desire to continue the good relationship. I disagree that the US's relationship with NATO is changing. Both President Trump and Minister of Defence Mattis have been aware that they are under their responsibility in NATO. It is being produced as new that the US wants Europe to take more responsibility for its own security. It was also Obama very busy. This government has done so, both through increased defence budgets and by the new long-term plan, which is also an alliance plan. As the representative Hansen had in mind, the committee had a very rich and interesting journey to the United States just a few days after the deployment. We met a number of key representatives, both in the Defence Committee, in the Pentagon and in the Department of State, who gave us a broad understanding of the policy put forward by the United States in the future. I want to focus a little bit on NATO because this is the question that may have been raised most often. There is no doubt that the 2 pst. goal and the burden-sharing are central to the expectations that lie there. I would like to say that on the part of the committee we were reasonably co-cohesive and unanimous in our feedback that we are taking this most seriously. We also believe that the willingness we have shown to put the level of investment in Norwegian defence policy well above the objective of Wales, which is 20 p.m. - I guess we're on 27-28 pst. – also forms part of the assumptions of the NATO meeting in Wales. It also states that we have realised that part of the burden-sharing is our responsibility in the northern regions and in the northern flanks of NATO, which is, to a large extent, Norway's responsibility. That is why we have also been in favour of and insist on investing in 52 F-35 fighter aircraft, which the Greens do not agree with in their programme. We have also been committed to new surveillance aircraft, new submarines and a significant increase in intelligence. All of this is also part of a burden-sharing, where we take on far greater burdens in this field than some other NATO countries we can compare with, which were thanked for by the central representatives we met in the United States. I think that is a good understanding of Norway's role in NATO, and we contribute to both deterrence and surveillance, which is part of NATO's concept. With regard to Article 5 of the NATO Alliance, we also pointed out that it has only been triggered once, and that was when the United States called for help and Norway put up with all the other allies — and at a significant cost for Norway and the other allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e585	Thank you both to the inter-pellant and to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I agree with the analysis of the representative Hansson. Some suggestions were good, others we might have to think a little bit more about. There was also a lot of good in the foreign minister's answer, but I'm going to spend my time on one big hole in his analysis here in the hall and out in public as I think is there. It is true that fundamental American interests are not changed by a presidential election, just as they are not changed by a Norwegian election. It is also true that much of the administration, the establishment, consists, and that many competent people come in. Nevertheless, what we are witnessing now is fundamentally new, and – to quote leading American academics – we have an authoritarian nationalist who shows little respect for central liberal values, which is president of the United States. It breaks with fundamental western values and with American values. This is what the Minister for Foreign Affairs very sensiblely referred to in his earlier statement today – he did well for how this is a new type of global challenge we face. But the leading representative of the global challenge is now the American President, who has a relatively strong apparatus around him in the United States, which is important and central support players, and who have many allied support players in Europe who look at what is being done. I think I dare say that what I'm saying now, is not a Norwegian SV analysis, I think it's the leading global analysis of what's now happening in the United States – which one will find in the United States, in Europe, in Norway, on both sides of the political spectrum. It's dramatic, especially because the United States has shared values with Norway and Europe. If we go back 50–60–70 years, we can even argue that many of those values were stronger in the United States than in much of Europe. We can say that fundamental values from the age of dawn, the emergence of democracy, justice, the liberal freedoms – all that has failed in the whole of the United States together with European countries are important drivers. Then we've had disagreements about values and about security policies and other things, but the fundamental basis of the strong community lies there, and perhaps in one more thing: that a shared view of cooperation and sharing globally is better than the opposite of many of the fields that have arisen in the debate before here. That's why I don't think that an analysis of liberal democracy that threatened on the one hand is going well enough with a stability box about our relationship with the Trump administration on the other. Perhaps the explanation is that the script and drafts are written in two different departments in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – one that pursues security policy towards the United States and one that operates global justice. But it is the political leadership that is responsible for making this work together in a joint analysis. So I have to say – and I believe that is important for the debate – that it is not really Norway's relationship with the country of the United States that is facing fundamental challenges now, it is Norway's relationship with all other European countries and the administration that a minority of the voters in the United States chose, and the political movement they are part of, which is the fundamental challenge. Half the United States has the same problems with her that many in Europe have and that we should have. So we're on top of the plurality in the U.S. in the deep challenges we're facing that value base right there. So it is not a security policy challenge in the same way that we are used to and that we have often had debates on in the Norwegian political spectrum at the bottom of this. We have a challenge from the leading forces in the United States against the foundations of Norway and other Western democracy are built on. Therefore, I do not – and I understand that the representative Hansson does not – call for us to cut ties, stop being constructive or not having dialogue. I want to say the exact opposite – we should definitely have. But it is necessary to have a proper analysis at the bottom, and it is necessary to form alliances and come up with clear criticism and answers to the challenge we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e600	The question we are discussing is not whether we should have a good relationship with the United States – we should. The question is what is the best long-term investment in a still good relationship with a country that has suddenly been given a president who – as the representative Solhjell referred to – is referred to as an undemocratic nationalist. In such a situation and in such a situation, where not at least very many people in the United States are waiting and need a clear counter-reaction from around the world, we believe it is inadequate to have such a backward attitude to the signals that are now coming from the US presidency, which we get from the Secretary of State. Why should it be obvious that Norway is buying yachts from an administration so far away from us for a long time to come on certain basic value issues? The short-term purchases are settled and settled, that's not what we're asking about, but what about those that are far into the future? How are we going to deal with a country that might withdraw from a global climate agreement that everyone else has concluded? In practice, therefore, commercial — and in other ways — profits will also be made from not being subject to the obligations imposed on all other countries. If it is not covered by today's WTO regulations, there is still a problem that we cannot reject. On the positive side, Norway will be able to give strong signals, for example: through the upcoming exciting Sustainable Development Communication – on a global funding model for the UN Sustainable Development Goals, which may find the United States interesting but which demonstrates escalating global sustainability leadership from Norway. And we can send out signals about stepping up support for the UN Environment Programme, UNEP, for example. to build it up to a UN Environment Organisation, as a global counterweight to the signals sent by President Trump on the reduction of its own environmental administration. These are examples of more clear actions, with a more clear signal effect than what we hear from the Norwegian government. I would like to encourage that there is a type of action – together with others, more concrete action – that we get back to when it comes to the announcements made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e609	I think there has been a good round in the hall around dealing with a situation in which we find that in some areas there is no coincidence between Norway and many other European countries and the new US administration. At the same time, we know that the United States is our most important ally. It is absolutely essential for us to have close and good cooperation with the United States, not least in the area of security policy. I believe that we have dealt with the situation that has arisen in Washington, in a way that takes care of Norwegian interests, but also helps us to have influence and be listened to when American policies are to be designed. That's the last thing that's important: create dialogue and have influence over decisions that will also have a big impact on us. As regards NATO solidarity and Article 5, this was questioned at an earlier stage. It has now been established by President Trump himself that it is important for the United States that NATO solidarity exists. It also shows that the dialogue has had its effect. Another question that has been raised for discussion, such as: use of torture: there have been quite strong international reactions, and we have experienced that President Trump has said that here it is Minister of Defence Mattis who will make the final decision. He has also noticed the strong reactions that have been. We must now work in a good way – using our ecosystem of friends in Washington – to care for what is Norwegian and European interests. I listed several of the areas that I think are problematic, and one of them is for example. increased protectionism. I don't think that'll be good for the world economy, it won't create any more jobs. Strengthening WTO cooperation is important in the future. But then it's not my job to be an commentator in the current American debates, and as many people also said, the strongest and toughest debates about this policy are actually taking place in the United States. It is a well-functioning democracy in which the various governmental bodies also function.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e621	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e637	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from the member of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e646	An overall assessment of the museum reform – the first spark of this representative proposal actually came in Bergen on April 22, 2016. Then Hege Haukeland Liadal from the Workers' Party and I were involved in a debate with the museum leaders, and that debate showed a great common understanding of the situation, showed a great common understanding of what was good, and showed a great common understanding of what it could be nice to find out more about. In recent debates too, it has been shown that there has been a great deal of agreement on this. There have been feedback from meetings with the public, both regional and local. The Museum Meeting of the Association of Museums has presented some challenges – a meeting in which a person is asked in a spirit of good faith to hold his hands on how to do it locally, but at the same time they are asking for help on the challenges they are not entirely facing. When visiting museums around, there's been a continuous tone: here's something we should look at. Several initiatives have been taken and have been discussed several times about doing this. I think that is fine, and I would like to thank for the cooperation within the Committee where the initiatives of several members of the Committee are now put together in a joint proposal by the parties to the Committee. The Green Party, as a party from the outside, is also involved in this proposal for a representative. That means that we are united in the desire for a successful museum reform. That means that we're united in the desire for some answers to and some clarifications of what we know so far. That means that we are united in the desire to give consistent help to those who are in the processes, and that means that we are gathered in a desire to look at the entire Museums-Norway as a whole. We have many examples of good, consolidated museums. Consolidated museums have experienced a strengthening of management, a pool of resources, improved access to skills and good planning and use of resources. It's good to see, because that was the intention of this reform. Then we also have examples of good consolidations that have some challenges, where the technical is in place, but where there are challenges in internal communication. Perhaps the most important thing is that there are challenges to ownership when more than one unit merges. This is one of the things that has been asked for help. We're going to have to help this out. Then we have someone who's in the process, who's in the process, and it's important that they can get help from the success stories and learn from the others. The museum reform is not in the finish line. Consolidation shall continue. There's been a lot of aging, and it'll be further. It may be necessary to think through now: what is the local and regional responsibility for the museum reform? And what is the national responsibility that we're going to contribute to getting in place? The time has come for an en route assessment. On behalf of the Committee, I would also like to thank political leadership, with the Minister of Culture at the head, who has responded positively to the proposal and said that they will follow up. That's very good. It is a desire to contribute to a successful museum reform we are dealing with today. It is a desire for a national and comprehensive museum establishment and an opportunity for a clearer clarification of expectations. We're looking forward to what this can serve as a basis for. Once again, I would just like to stress the positive fact that all the parties in the committee, and also parties outside the committee, have wanted this in common, so that we can get a good process on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e663	I would like to start by thanking the representative proposal and for the initiative taken by the various parties. It is a very positive initiative, which I fully support, and I am very pleased that the Storting will unanimously stand behind this today. This is the right time to make an overall assessment and summary of the museum reform – as far as we have come. The museum reform may not be an area for the major political confrontations. Here I perceive that there is broad political consensus, and changing governments have followed up the consolidation of Museums-Norway in recent years. There has been a broad consensus also in the Grand Duchy, and it has actually contributed to the launch of consolidation processes in large parts of the country. It has been necessary, and I am very happy that the parties can find together and agree on the important cultural field that the museum sector, after all, is. The last consolidations show some of the geographical distribution: the Aust-Agder museum and archives comprise from 2015 three former independent museums in East Agder. Norsk Maritimt Museum was merged with Norsk Folkemuseum in 2015, and Norsk Industrial Workers Museum, with its headquarters at Vemork, includes from 2015 the Telemark Gallery and the Light Arch Art Collection and Industrial Museum at Notodden. Through the museum reform, the number of independent institutions is significantly reduced. By the millennia it was approx. 350 museums which received direct or indirect support from the Ministry of Culture. These museums are now organised in 65 administrative units. It has given several positive gains, such as larger and wider trade unions and thus also professionally stronger museums. At the same time, the number of exhibition venues or the offer to the public has not been reduced as a result of the museum reform. In 2015, the museums supported by the Ministry of Culture had almost 6.7 million visitors – there are many people. Museum statistics show a significant increase in the flow of audiences to the museums, and that people visit the museums more than ever before. We've seen that over the last 15 years. There is little doubt that we have a better museum sector today than we had at the entrance of this millennium – a bigger audience, better resource use and professionally stronger museums. Not least the last point is important. However, the consolidations have led to major changes for the museums, employees, owners and associations of friends. Consolidation processes have intervened in property, organisational and organisational aspects. And it's true, as pointed out in the Committee's attitude, that many museums have underlined a clear need to simplify the ownership structure of the consolidated museums. When we are about to start an overall assessment of this reform, it should also make the challenge of future museum offerings visible. I therefore agree with the proposers that it is important to identify and raise awareness of the factors that give positive development and that mean much to a good result, both for the consolidated museums and for the other museums. Proposals suggest that several states have evaluated or are in the process of evaluating the effects of the reform. In addition, evaluations of individual institutions have also been carried out. These studies will be an important part of the basic material for an overall nationwide analysis. The processes around the country have come a different way. There will be a good opportunity to evaluate results and define challenges in regions where consolidated units have already been operating for some years. However, in other cases it may be a little premature to draw clear conclusions. Digitalisation in museum operations, as mentioned by the Committee in the setting, is also an important part of this. There has been a positive trend in recent years in digitisation, but more extensive digitisation of museum collections is necessary, and we will take this into account in the evaluation, which we are pleased to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e684	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e701	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines with up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e710	I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on the matter and also all those who have made input and suggestions for improvements along the way. I hope that the matter that we are dealing with today will help to make things better for the children and for the parents. Our goal is to do the best for the children and improve their daily lives. First, an incurrency: on page 19, at the top of the health care note, the Children’s Ombudsman has been wrongly mentioned, as well as the word ‘necessary’ before the word ‘health care’. I hope that this can be corrected and removed. This matter was probably a little overtaken in advance, as the primary position of the Advance Party and the Council of State went much further than what has now been presented to the Stortinget. Many had opinions about this play, and it meant that part of the auditions were quite clear. In particular, two of the changes created a debate: shared residence and shared parental responsibility from birth. First of all, there is a strong consensus: there is a strong political consensus, including among the hearing bodies, to increase the alert obligation to three months, to impose mediation obligations and to take action against community barriers. In the case of joint parental responsibility from birth and divided residence, I expect that the Christian People's Party, which constitutes the minority, will promote its position here in the Chamber. Today, the mother has parental responsibility only if the parents do not live together at birth, and she must report to the public register if father is to share this. The change means that both now get this from birth. Mom can still report that she wants to do this alone, and Dad has to go to court if he wants it, after changing the law. Joint parental responsibility means both being able to obtain information about the child, influencing choices to be made and being present in the child’s life. There may be different reasons why mother wants sole responsibility, and some of the hearing bodies believe that the change in the law will help mother to report father as unknown to a greater extent than today. We don't know how many people do it with today's laws, so we're asking that there be statistics on its scope to see if the law changes get this unintended effect. It is important that both parties receive good information on the rights, obligations and consequences of joint parental responsibility, and in good time before birth. It proposes the Committee, and it is also proposed to provide knowledge of the need for association, so that the child is best placed to do so from the outset. The majority believe that including both parents even if they do not live together could contribute to a good relationship and good growth for the child. It is claimed that father is often the one who loses in court, and the Committee therefore asks for a review of the judgments handed down in child distribution cases, in order to look at what this is like and, if necessary, to find out why it is happening. Children shall be entitled to care from both parents after a break in life, and it must be provided for. Both parents are equal partners, and one must find solutions that are best for the individual family. It is important to clarify that freedom of contract applies further and that amendment of the law does not affect this possibility. Conflict proceedings shall continue to exist in the judiciary, but the possibility of a freely agreeing where the child is to live may be anti-conflict in itself. There is little knowledge of how children are affected by different types of housing solutions, and the Committee therefore calls for research to be started into how children are affected by this. In the course of its examination, the Committee has made a number of proposals which strengthen the case, both in terms of research, economics and actions. Everyone shall contribute to the best interests of children. Creating peace and security around children in the event of a breakup must be the most important thing. Children are loyal and will not hurt anyone. Small children have little choice, while larger children can say from now on. Listening to the children, getting help to resolve conflicts, and not letting the children get involved with the parents in the breakup are parental duties as adults. Both parents often have the desire and need to have their children as much as possible, but it is the best of the children that must ultimately apply here as well. The Labour Party has a few comments and one proposal alone, and I'll deal with it. These are alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. For the Workers' Party, the issue is also about equality. Both parents may be good caregivers for the child, but both must have equal opportunities to be so, while at the same time caring for the best of the children. Children need both parents, even after a break in life, and regardless of their parents' conflict, they have to be put first. It's easy to say, but difficult to implement. That is why good law is important. The treatment in Stortinget has made matters better, because many proposals have been made where we check out or strengthen the child’s rights – proposals that we expect the Council of State to follow up with action.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e742	The representative Mangt has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e747	My daughter wondered yesterday what to do at work, and I replied that I would write articles. Write down what you mean, like? she said. Yes, I confirmed. But what do you mean, Mom? Well, I said, I'll say something about that even if parents don't want to be boyfriends, they have to put the kids first. She thought a little about it, and then she said, "Tell them that they shouldn't forget that they were friends, even though they're no longer lovers." I guess there's a little bit of the germ in what these changes are about. Children need adults who put children's feelings first, even if it's storming in the relationship, and also where there's been nothing special about relationship in front of them at all. Children have the right to know who are parents, and to have a relationship with both. It must be the most important thing, even though the parents don't want to be together. To take a little unnecessary clarification: there are, of course, exceptions, where children should not have anything to do with adults – I am thinking about violence and abuse. But the main rule is the right to have a good relationship with both of them. Under the law in force, the mother has parental responsibility only if she is not married or does not live with her father at the time of birth. We want to change this – not drastically, but by reflecting the rule – in order to take children's rights to two parents seriously. Now common parental responsibility becomes the main rule. Mother is given the right to report to the public register if she wants responsibility alone, and then Dad still has to go to court to get joint responsibility. In order to share responsibility for children, both parents must be able to have equal rights to information about the child. They do, too, today, but this is something it's sinning against. That is why we are adopting some clarifications on this proposal. Moving sometimes creates stressful situations. The notification of a move just before the summer and legal holidays, with the deadline of the current three-week period, in order to have taken the move with the child before the other parent has time to say something, is not for the benefit of the child. In order to move abroad, one must agree, but with our long-term country, moving within the country also presents challenges for children and parents who want to keep in touch. It is therefore important to extend the deadline for notifying the move and to submit the extra mediation if the parents do not agree. There has been a lot of discussion about whether the court should be able to impose on parents a shared residence. This is a major opposition in the hearing bodies, but some also believe that this is the best thing for the children. The right-wing believe that shared residence is a very good solution for many, but that it requires parents who can work together to get it done. The cases that go to court have a high level of conflict and are probably not as suitable for this. Having said that, we are asking in this case for more research and that, under mediation, voluntary agreement between parents be given good and equal information on possible agreements, in order to ensure maximum overall parental contact for the children. Until now, the party that has been prevented from having an association because the other party opposes it, has been a bit – I would call it – innocent. It is therefore important to have strict and clear rules on enforcement. In addition, there is now a system of dialogue and mediation in those cases where you do not get together, or where there are other reasons for enforcement. Fortunately, most parents are able to make good agreements. They talk to their children, and they can keep the level of conflict down. For them, these changes in rules won't mean that much, but for those kids who don't have so mature adults around them, the changes we're making in this case are important and correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e770	I will be allowed to start by thanking the rapporteur for doing a thorough and good job and for being willing to compromise and committed to finding solutions in the Committee, which, in my view, has helped to strengthen a good government case even more in important areas. Because it is not that it is obvious that there should be as broad a consensus on as important changes as it is in this case. There are very few areas where there is a great distance, in most areas good solutions have been found. So I want to point out the fact that in the first place this is not about strengthening father's rights, but about strengthening children's rights to a father. In practice, Father will also be very positive in these contexts, but there is a fundamental and genuine interest in the best possible care of the child's interests, as expressed in the Government's proposals and in the Committee's position. There is one area in which I would draw attention to, because the Progress Party has a special note relating to shared residence, and there has also been a lot of discussion in the consultation round. The progress party wants to strengthen it further, but takes note that we are part of both a government and a large majority landing on a slightly different model. Nevertheless, we believe that it has been necessary to stress that we actually have an alternative view of this point, and we believe that the divided residence should be the general rule. We also do that for the sake of the child. So there'll be different assessments of it, and it's complicated. Everything within this area is complicated, because there are no families that are the same. There are different relationships between parents, there are different relationships that help one to find the solutions that are best for each family, but we think that we should have had an even stronger pressure on sharing residence as a general rule than what is going to be the result. But all in all: if you look at the proposals that have been promoted by the government that are being supported by the Grand Duchy today and the proposals that the Committee itself has contributed to, this is a major and important step in the right direction for children's rights to both parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e781	The Christian People's Party is also pleased that changes are being made to the child law that underlines the importance of father as a caregiver for children. All children have the right to know and to be with both their mother and their father, and all children have the right to grow up in safe and good homes. These children's rights believe that the Christian People's Party must be given priority to the wishes and needs of adults. Therefore, it is also important for me to stress that the best thing for the child is what must always be the primary consideration of the child law. So we know that what is concretely the best thing for the child in each case, is not always easy to legislate down to the smallest detail. It is at least important for me to clarify that it is not the parental rights that should be based on the Children's Act, but what is best for the child. The Christian People's Party supports very much of what is promoted in this matter, but in two areas, in two concrete cases, the Christian People's Party is alone in the Committee. It goes on what has to do with equal parenting, and it goes on what has to do with shared residence. Here the Christian People's Party has listened to important bodies who believe that the government's proposal that the starting point of the law be common parental responsibility for all, even for parents who do not live together when the child is born, can be conflict-making and lead to more parents. This is pointed out at the Statistical Central Bureau, which believes there is reason to believe that a change that gives more parents who have never lived together, shared parental responsibility, will lead to more mediation and perhaps more cases before the court. We also refer to the Children’s Ombudsman, who points to research that shows that parents who have never lived together more often have conflicts than other parents, and that a high level of conflict is the single factor that research identifies as the greatest risk to children’s development. The Children’s Ombudsman also warns against changes in the law because of fears that mothers who are victims of violence and abuse will not dare to act in order to prevent father from getting joint parental responsibility. We also refer to Redd Barna, who points out that this is about responsibility and not association, and that it cannot be concluded that such a change in parental responsibility will give more overall contact with both parents. They warn against these changes in the Children’s Act because there is insufficient knowledge of the consequences of the legislative changes for the children it covers. Several hearing bodies consider that mothers will be able to avoid presenting hazards with such a change in law. What's unfortunate then, of course, is that the change could result in more children being deprived of the opportunity to get to know their father, and that's an entirely unintended consequence. This is why the Christian People's Party will not vote for the government's proposal to amend Section 35 of the Children's Act. So to this with a divided residence, for here several hearing bodies have been critical of the government's proposal for a change in Section 36, first paragraph, where divided residence is highlighted in the law as one of the alternatives that parents can choose. Here, the Children's, Youth's and Family's Directorate points to the unfortunate consequences it can have. The Children's Ombudsman warns against the government's proposal. In the hearing, the Children’s Ombudsman states that negotiations between parents are not conducted in a vacuum, but are affected by, among other things. legislation. When the aim is to keep the child’s best interests at the centre, it is important that legislation contributes as much as possible to the focus of parents on the most important, namely what will be the best solution for their child. Today's children's law is neutral, it should still be, but it says that the parents should agree where the child is going to live. It does not bring forward one solution as the best, and assigns responsibility to parents to find the solution that can best suit their children and their families. The children’s ombudsman is afraid that a change in the legal text may signal that shared residence is the preferred solution, and that one can thereby weaken children’s right to good, individual assessments of what is best for exactly them. Therefore, the Children’s Ombudsman does not recommend the amendment of the law made in the first paragraph of Section 36. I just have to say one thing in the end, and that's that nothing is hogged in stone. The Christian People's Party is also involved in many of the proposals that are being made in this Chamber, among others. the proposal to evaluate equal parenthood after three years. We are of course open that after such an evaluation you will see that this can have positive consequences, and then the Christian People's Party will of course come back to it. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e796	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e801	The central party supports the proposal for the changes in children's rights to equal parenthood with the exception of the introduction of common parenthood, § 35, and that shared housing should be included first in the law, i.e. the amendment to the first paragraph of Section 36. We are going to vote in favour of all the Romantic decisions with the exception of IX, and we are not going to support the Workers' Party's proposal for a separate settlement of the dispute settlement system now. We're rebuilding equal parenthood. The parenthood is today more equal than it has ever been in history, and it is a good thing for society. We want to take care of that, and we also want a family policy that sets a good framework for parenting. We think it is very important that the care of what is best for the child should always weigh more heavily. We do not support the introduction of common parents where parents do not live together at birth. We believe that common parents of parents who do not live together can be conflict-making and lead to more parents, as others have mentioned here today. This is also emphasised by several hearing aids, including: of the Barneumbode and of several District Courts. Several hearing authorities also point out that legal changes may lead to mothers avoiding giving rise to danger. It is unfortunate if the laws lead to situations where children may experience that decisions are taken on their behalf by a parent who has little or no knowledge of the child. It is also problematic and addressed in the hearing. We think shared housing is a good solution for many, but perhaps not for everyone. We do not want leadership to be given that can be seen as a political signal that this is preferred to other housing solutions. Bufdir points out that all decisions about whether children should be based on what is best for the child. Although there is a change in the laws, it can be perceived as a signal that the divided housing is generally best for children, and thus leads parents to realize that this is a solution that is preferred to another. The children's environment indicates that today's law is neutral, while a change in the legal text will signal that divided housing is the preferred solution. When it comes to IX, about going through the financial support schemes for single-parents and considering a change to remove economic incentives in order to opt out of divided housing, we think that this proposal is carried out in VIII. It has been formulated in a more neutral way – that is, that the government is going to review the financial arrangements as liabilities when parents do not live together, and evaluate changes that can take care of their only parent’s economy, while at the same time preventing the economy from being a decisive factor when decisions about the housing of children are taken. It is extremely important that a non-organising housing according to parents' finances, but that it is what is best for the child, it should be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e814	We have had a fantastic development in recent decades, where fathers have taken more responsibility in the world than before and more actively participated in the day-to-day care of children. It's good for dad, mom and kids. The law hangs here somewhat and needs to be updated in line with developments. Barnelova helps to ensure that children are well cared for, and one must constantly evaluate what is best for the child. Therefore, it is important to secure the right of children to participate. Children are entitled to be heard, and their meaning shall be added to their weight in line with age and development. This is so fundamental that it is anchored in both the Children's Convention and the Constitution, and so important that the Left would very much like to have the right to complain after the Children's Convention. Unfortunately, a number of them were recently stopped in the hall. For the Left, it is clear that parents have the primary responsibility for the children. The parent is one - regardless of the relationship with the other parent. It cannot be decisive for the parent relationship of the child if you are married to the other parent. The left is therefore pleased that both parents are now getting parental responsibility from day one. Then, of course, you have to open up so that the one can get parental responsibility in certain circumstances, but it is now promised that one as a parent has a common parental responsibility for the child. Furthermore, it is made clear that parental responsibility should be exercised jointly and that both should be involved in important decisions, such as: if the only parent is allowed to move. An extended alert obligation provides more time to find solutions that are best for the child. The left also welcomes the introduction of mediation obligations where parents do not agree on moving. A high level of conflict frames the child, and facilitating amicable mediation solutions can contribute to less burdensome justice. Barnelova is currently neutral when it comes to choice of care solution where parents move from one another. Left supports a continuation of the neutral solution and further that parents themselves must agree on each child's life and how to share care. The best solutions for sharing care are one where parents are united. At a time when more and more well divided homes, Left says that it's not unnatural to make a minor change to the laws that make this shape come first. The two solutions are still smooth. At the heart of the rule is that parents agree on what is the best solution. Children grow up at a time when fathers take more responsibility than ever, and where equivalent parenthood is the new normal – a development we have to take into account in the design of laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e825	I'm glad the government has gone away from the most contentious proposals that have ever been made. For SV, the child’s perspective is decisive and what is best for the child should be taken into account for children’s eloquence. Therefore, SV does not take the wax perspective today. It may be demanding, but the promises are for our kids, and the children what is best for the child must be emphasized. We have put great emphasis on the Barneombode and the well-founded recordings that have come on behalf of children in Norway. There are two proposals that we are critical of in this context. We vote against the amendments to Section 35, which deals with parental responsibility when parents are not married, and which says, ‘Unwed parents have parental responsibility together for their children.’ Those who have children alone or become parents without bowing are a common group. Therefore, it is important that the law does not make complicated situations worse. Children who are born with parents who do not live together are few, about 10 pst. A number of hearing authorities warn against changing their practices on whom the parental responsibility should be automatically changed. Several courts believe that the government's proposal that the starting point of the law should be shared parental responsibility for all would be conflict-making and give more parental rights. The central statistical agency believes there is reason to believe that a change that gives more parents who never offered to share parental responsibility will lead to more mediation and legal proceedings. The children's environment points to research that parents who have never bid in layers are more likely to have conflicts than other parents, and that the high level of conflict in the lives of our young people is the single factor that gives the greatest risk to their development. The ban also warns against the amendment of the law of fear that mothers who have been elected and violated will not dare to act against a father's mutual parental responsibility. Based on the debate here today, I would like to make it clear that this is about responsibility and not about association. It's very cool that several fathers are together with their kids, but it can't be concluded that such a change in parental responsibility will give more collective contact with both parents. There is no adequate knowledge of the consequences of a change in laws for the children in question. Several hearing bodies of my mothers will be able to avoid giving up the dangers of such a change in law, and that thus the change will be able to take from children's knowledge to father. SV votes against the changes in § 36 of Kinderelova. In the hearing, several were critical to the government’s proposal for a change in the first paragraph, where split housing is highlighted as the first option that parents can choose. Converting order appears as a desire to function as a norm. We think this is problematic because the scheme requires special arrangements to be for the best for the child. The Barneombode also warns against the government's proposal. Loudness quote: ‘The negotiations between parents are not conducted in a vacuum, but are influenced, inter alia, by legislation. When the aim is to keep the child’s best interests at the centre, it is important that legislation contributes as much as possible to the focus of parents on the most important – namely what will be the best solution for their child. Today's children's law is neutral. It says that the parents should agree where the child is going to live. It does not bring forward one solution as the best, and gives parents the responsibility to find the solution that best suits their children and their families. A change in the legal text may signal that shared residence is the preferred solution, thereby weakening children's right to good, individual assessments of what is best for exactly them. The Children’s Ombudsman therefore recommends that the law should not be amended.’ SV supports these considerations and agrees with the amendment to Section 36 as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e857	I want to join several speakers who have said that the committee has done a good job. Today, when we consider proposals for equal parenthood, it is based on a recognition that mother and father are equivalent caregivers and – what is important here – the right of children to get together with both their parents. It shall apply when living together, but also after a breakup. In the amendments to the laws, the best interests of the child and the right of the child to contact both mother and father are fundamental. Both parents are important caregivers in children’s lives. The Government wishes to facilitate, with the proposals made in this bill, that both parents should be able to be equivalent caregivers, regardless of whether they are mothers or fathers. The Children’s Act is often amended. But it's not just law changes that are going to change society, it's also how families themselves act both before and after breakup. The distribution of work and care tasks by parents in society is also known to affect the agreements concluded in the event of a breakup. In the legislative proposals that are now being promoted, there are proposals for more equal opportunities for parents. Joint parental responsibility means that both parents should have equal value and space in the child’s growth. The government's proposal means that parents can decide together on important issues relating to the child. I believe that joint parental responsibility will lead to more contact between both parents and children. It will also provide an added security for children to have a stronger legal relationship with both parents from birth, and then you can have an easy way to change that starting point in cases where it is not for the child’s best. Shared residence has been a clear theme in the social debate. The government sent two proposals to the hearing, where we had a preferred proposal that we should take it up in the law, and that is also the proposal under consideration here today. It has an important signal effect, but the legal text will still be neutral in terms of the preferred residence or community arrangement. I would like to stress the freedom of agreement that parents have in these matters. What care and association arrangements are appropriate for the individual child and family, and what the family must decide for itself. Then it's important, as many people have thought, that the parents talk, and the parents have to listen to what the children have on their hearts. We know kids can provide important information about what's going on in order for their everyday life to be good. We know that both cohabitation and relocation can be a germ to conflict. That is why it is important for us now to propose an extended alert period of six weeks to three months, and also a legal imposition of mediation if there is disagreement. We know that moving can lead to major changes in a child's life, and then it's important that children are also heard in these matters. It is the parents who know which scheme best suits their family, but it is not always easy to take into account the needs of children in the midst of a breakup. Family protection today has the task of assisting parents who are unable to reach agreement, through mediation or help to improve parental cooperation. In the bill, the government is in favour of more mediation, both in cases where parents do not agree on the move and before the enforcement of decisions. I welcome several proposals from the Committee. I believe that the proposal for research promoted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is absolutely necessary in order for us to be able to gain more knowledge of how children are affected by different housing schemes. The perspective of children is particularly important, for too often it is the voice of adults that dominates the debate. The government's family policy is based on freedom of choice and flexibility, and the individual family itself is closest to assessing which solutions are best suited to them. The Children’s Act must therefore provide good contractual solutions that meet the needs of the different families after a break in their lives. I believe that the proposals that the Stortinget is dealing with today will take account of these considerations. The government has been accused of going too far in the proposals, and we have been accused of not going far enough. Then I am glad that we may now have found a medium way, where we have at least come a bit on the way for a more equal parenthood and also the children's right to both mother and father after a break in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e895	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e900	As the Council of State says, and as it is also said here, there has been a lot of consensus in the matter. We are very pleased that we have gathered on many of the good proposals that make the matter better, but the Labour Party has its own proposal to investigate alternative dispute resolution arrangements. We didn't get the rest of that. It is referred to in the note that there will be a sample to deliver its launch in the spring of 2017. My question is: When will this matter possibly come to Stortinget, and does the Council of State think that our proposal will be taken care of in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e909	The government has set up a Special Court Committee that comes with its proposals, a NOW, Thursday. I am not familiar with the content of the proposal from the sample, but there is an exciting NOU coming, which is being sent to the hearing – if it follows the same procedure as for other NOUs. I would like to stress that with regard to the intention of the Workers' Party's proposal, I believe we agree that we have good arrangements, which enable parents to reach agreement. That is why I am very pleased that we have a unique situation in Norway, with family protection that very many of our neighbouring countries envy us. We have a family protection that, through a historical commitment – in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party – has also been strengthened in recent years, and which is now better equipped to help families come up with good arrangements, both before the breakup of life and after the breakup of life. I think we're going to fence about that. Then it'll be exciting to get the proposal from the Special Court Committee on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e918	It's important that we've managed to get the big consensus, and I think the Council of State is right to answer that question. But what we want is also to create calmness and predictability for the kids and for the parents. The result of the case was not exactly the way the Council of State was before the matter came. As I was in my post: It created quite a large bride. Is the Council disappointed in the outcome, or does she think this is a good solution, which she can also live with when she comes into opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e925	It is no secret that the Progress Party has been very alone about being too automatically shared care in the event of a breakup. The government had two proposals out at the hearing, but the government was also very clear that we preferred to lift up the divided residence as an alternative in the law. That is the proposal we have now come up with. Then I recognize that it is important to move forward, and to get through the legislative proposals that the government is presenting. I am familiar with the proposal we have put in place today, and I am pleased that there is so much support in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e932	In the case of the amendment to the Children’s Act based on common parental responsibility for all, even for parents who do not live together when the child is born, several authorities have warned against such a change in law. The Children’s Ombudsman warns against the amendment of the law because of the fear that mothers will not dry up to act in order to prevent a father from getting joint parental responsibility. There are several hearing bodies that believe that mothers will be able to avoid presenting hazards with such a change in law and that it will have the consequence that there are several children who are not able to become acquainted with their father. In what way has the Council of State assessed these recordings, and in what way has the Council of State emphasized these important inputs in its work on this legislative change?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e939	For the government, it has been important to give parents equivalence even when they do not live together at the birth of the child. Today, you have a right to live together, and you have a dependability, but you don't have the right to make big decisions in your child's life. With regard to the recordings that have been made in the hearing, and also the recordings that have come from the Christian People's Party, I believe that the bill ensures – if it were to be both violence and other – that it would be easy for mother to go to court and demand that she have parental responsibility alone. So I'm not worried about the hearings that have come. I believe that it may be with and dampen the conflict that Dad gets joint parental responsibility even when he does not live together at the time of birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e946	Just a look back to the previous period: the Christian People's Party presented several proposals for amendments to the Children's Act. Among other things, we called for the removal of this pater est principle, which is that the mother is married to at all times, is the one who is listed as the father of the child, although biological father may be a completely different. This did not support the Progress Party at that time. Is there something the Council of State would like to look at?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e951	There's nothing I'm working on right now. I believe that the proposals that are now on the table for consideration today are an important step towards a more equivalent parenthood.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e957	I just mentioned it, for there must be no doubt that the Christian People's Party is concerned that children will know both their mother and their father. In the case of a divided residence, it is clear that it is very nice when parents agree on a divided residence. The Christian People's Party has nothing against it at all, we think it's very good. However, the change made in the first paragraph of Section 36, where the place of residence is divided as the first option, can act as a norm, and there are several hearing bodies that have warned against it and believe that it may be conflict-making. How has the Council of State assessed the performances in relation to shared residence?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e962	This was the point we got the most comments on when it was out at the hearing. But what has been important to the government has been to equate parents even after a breakup. As far as shared residence is concerned, the Children's Act is currently neutral, and the freedom of agreement of the parents is at stake. It is also important that family protection now has so much competence and capacity to help parents make good judgements in the event of a breakup. Not least, we are now working on getting more child talks, so that children can also be heard in those situations. I think the most important thing we can do is to help parents come up with good solutions in the event of a break in life, but also to raise it in the law, if it comes to the court that shared residence can be an alternative. I'm glad that evolution now shows that more parents choose shared residence based on the fact that it's best for their family.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e967	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e972	I just want to link some comments to the posts. The Christian People's Party referred to research that shows that children are harming the law, relying on the Children's Ombudsman and others. But there is also research that says the opposite – that children who have shared their homes are doing well and that they succeed. Then you have to choose which research you want to support. What we know is that the level of conflict before a breakup can be crucial to your success. Divided residence is now highlighted in the law, and from the Labour Party this is a normative change, a signal from society that both are equivalent caregivers, and then the parents themselves must find the good solutions, either by agreement or – where the conflicts are large – in the judiciary. We trust them to do that. In the case of joint parental responsibility from day one, strong consultative bodies are opposed, inter alia: The Children's Ombudsman, but once again, it's important to see what the law gives rise to. Still, it is that mother can have parental responsibility alone by notifying, and that father still has to go to court – as today. Dad can also say it off. But here information is important. Therefore, we have put forward proposals that we need to know what the consequences are, what kind of rights you have, and what kind of opportunities you have, early – and preferably for a long time before the child is born. Children have the right to both parents in their lives, where possible. There are exceptions, such as: when a father is violent, but it is taken into account in the amendment of the law. Joint parental responsibility can also contribute to increased participation, as it allows information on the daily life of the child and what the child is doing. So we don't know how many people say father as unknown. There's no statistics for that, as we're familiar with it. So we don't know if this is going to increase or decrease. That's why we want to evaluate it, and we want to get a statistics on it, so we know something before we can express ourselves with such a blatantness as one does now. The goal is for children to have the best possible daily life after a break-in because it is clear that there is a crisis – it is tough for the children, and it is tough for the parents. I hope that the change that we are now making will help to make it better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e989	The fact that fathers and mothers take equal responsibility for and equal share of the child's life and upbringing, I think we all agree is the very best thing – certainly the very best for the child, first and foremost, because a child should really have a right to time with, and actively participating, parents. Unfortunately, it's not the reality for everyone, as we know – in some cases because the parents don't want it, unfortunately, but also because parents feel that they don't get a chance. It's definitely going to hurt the baby. Some later as if — or argue, at least, as if — the best of the child is always in conflict with a more equal parenthood. That's wrong. In cases where there is no conflict, it is that mother and father take a more equal share of responsibility, just for the best of the child. More like-minded parenting, the active taking of responsibility by father and mother, is also good for the individual who experiences actually taking an important part in the child's life, and it is important for equality in its entirety. Throughout history, it has been important for the Workers' Party to get away from the idea that there is a mother who is an active caregiver, and that father is a kind of distanced caregiver. Through active policies, we have given fathers rights and obligations to stimulate this. Every time my father has been held responsible, my father has also taken responsibility. The father rate is a very good example of that. From going from a time when it was almost unheard of that men were going to be home with kids, we see that almost everyone today is, because why shouldn't they be? Laws and regulations give rights and obligations, but they also work normatively. But not all laws have an up - to - date view of fathers as caregivers, and the law we are dealing with today is an example of this. Today, we're changing some of that. The parent's starting point is changed, and it should just be missing. It sends an important signal that mother and father are initially equally good caregivers, and that children should have close contact with both, even in cases where they choose not to live together. With regard to the second point under discussion, divided place of residence, it is not that some of today’s changes will be put on social arrangements which they themselves do not want and which are not good for the child. But there is no doubt that highlighting the divided residence is good. For those cases where parents agree and cooperate well, it has to have a daily life with both parents be good for children, even where parents do not live together.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1002	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1018	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1027	Thank you to the Committee for a simple and straightforward task as rapporteur. The amendment is about giving the State Health Authority access to information in order to review a range of child protection issues regarding emergency placements and care takeovers. The goal is learning, and it's as important to see what's done right, as what's done wrong. It could contribute to better child protection in the future. Child protection is often subject to criticism and has its clear challenges. The criticism goes both on wrong action and on premature or late action. A lot works well, but there's a reason to look at what kind of measures are wrong, and what's right. To do that, we need knowledge. Absence of children without the consent of their parents is the most radical measure taken by the protection of children. It creates sorrow, despair and anger for those involved, and it is therefore important to have good knowledge of how to make this the best possible. Both children and parents must be taken care of, while ensuring legal certainty. Since the review is intended to help raise knowledge of failures and identify characteristics of issues that have been dealt with in a professionally good manner, it is important to select issues of variety, complexity and breadth. The State Health Authority has the overall supervisory authority but is currently limited in its ability to obtain information from other public authorities in order to get the big picture. So we're going to give it to them. Svalbard is not included in this review. The children of Svalbard are covered by the rules of child protection and care and emergency decisions are also taken there. On our committee tour, we met child-restraint leaders and learned about the challenges they had. The Committee therefore points out that it should have been considered whether they should also be involved in the review, in order to get a comprehensive picture of the child protection area under our responsibility. The law imposes strict requirements on the processing of data and respect of professional secrecy is important. It is therefore necessary that the State Health Authority be subject to the same strict rules of professional secrecy imposed on it by the relevant specific law in which they are involved. Because it is important that the State Health Authority has access to information related to confidentiality that is relevant. Uncovering failure or providing better relationships for children in the future must be a legitimate objective. However, the intervention must not be greater than necessary, and it is therefore important that individuals cannot be identified in the overall basis. The possibility for the police to assess information they provide and the possibility to anonymise a third party where necessary is also natural. The law also provides for information to be provided by members of private kindergartens, schools and child protection institutions. They are important actors in children's lives and have a lot of knowledge. Where the State Health Authority reveals something in its review which suggests that supervision by the State should be opened up, this must be done. In particular, there are cases where on-going child protection offences are detected that have an impact on the care or life situation of children. However, the State Health Authority shall not assess whether criminal offences have been committed, nor shall it issue an opinion on the issue of guilt. Information provided shall not be available for use in a subsequent criminal or civil proceedings against those who have provided the information. It is an important clarification in order to be able to obtain the best possible information without the risk of anyone refraining from providing it in fear of compensation or punishment. The review is therefore carried out in order to obtain a better offer in the future, but should not be able to oversee the decisions of the county council members in individual cases. Here the hearing bodies are positive, and the Children’s Ombudsman indicates that such a review will enable children to receive proper assistance in a timely manner. The UNIO is concerned with families with different cultural backgrounds, and asks in particular that this be emphasised in the selected cases. The law also regulates access to the processing of personal data. This means that the State Health Authority is obliged to provide information when information is obtained from persons other than child protection. A final deadline for a completed mission has not been set, but the time limit for the communication of information to the State Health Authority is three years after the entry into force of the Act. Data shall be erased or stored in statistical form, with anonymisation so that the data cannot be linked to specific persons and follow-up is important. The children in child protection must be listened to. That is why the Committee also clarifies this and asks for it to be done. The Committee welcomes the amendment of the law. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have a special comment, criticising the short consultation period. Sending out a draft consultation in the middle of the summer holidays is also criticised by the Data Protection Authority, and we support their comments. This means that the case has not received any political treatment in local governments or states. In order to provide a broad basis, an effort should be made to ensure that such matters are heard, and we ask the government to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1059	The placement of children away from home without parental consent is known to be one of the most radical measures in the field of child protection. There is therefore a strong requirement for the work of child protection and for proper legal protection of both children and parents. Nevertheless, child protection is often criticised for either intervening too early or in the wrong way, or because they come too late with the help of children and families who need it. Concerns about taking care are often professionally complex, and child protection often has to deal with difficult dilemmas. It poses a risk of failure. Last year, the State’s health oversight was entrusted with a minimum of 100 individual cases of emergency placement and care takeover. The background to the mission is that we want to get as good a knowledge as possible about the handling of these child protection issues by the child protection service and the county council. We want more knowledge of the complexity and dilemmas of child protection work and the quality of professional work that child protection carries out as a basis for its decisions. The review can significantly increase knowledge of both what fails and what works. In order to obtain the most accurate and comprehensive picture possible, the State Health Authority will also use relevant scientific literature and research and other forms of information that can provide useful knowledge on public matters. The state health surveillance is already well under way in preparation. They are now in the process of developing a professional basis on which the cases are to be assessed. When the law comes into place, they will be able to collect and select the specific issues to be reviewed. The Health Authority has informed them that they are progressing well. Meetings were held with Buffdir, the directorate, and relevant professional environments, researchers, critics, experts and lawyers. They have also stated that, in order to assist the project, two panels will be set up, each composed of 8 to 10 members. One panel will have members with professional and research competence. The second panel will consist of children, young people and parents with user skills. This implies that the opinions of children should also be heard in these cases. In addition, a reference group focusing on representation from the services and organisations involved shall be established. Everyone who has so far been asked has agreed and is happy to join the project panel. The Health Authority shall pay attention to the fact that cases represent a variation in gender, age, size of the municipality, which name has dealt with the case, and what is the background to the case being promoted. I also assume that the minority perspective will be safeguarded. Occasionally it is necessary to place a child outside the home even if the parents do not agree to this. At the same time, care-taking and emergency placement of children outside the home are among the most dramatic and interventional instruments that can be implemented. It is therefore important that this be carried out only when strictly necessary in the interests of the child. Furthermore, it is important that it be implemented in a professionally good and prudent manner, which ensures the legal certainty of both the child and the parents. I both hope and expect that the review will provide new and useful knowledge on child protection management of care and emergency decisions. I am pleased that the committee has dealt with the matter quickly and that the committee has given legal support in its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1080	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1096	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1101	This is a proposal for a representative promoted by representatives of the Workers' Party before the summer of last year. Not long afterwards, the government promoted its own action plan against discrimination against LHBTI people, the action plan they called Security, Diversity, Transparency. The Committee welcomes the fact that the government takes seriously the discrimination and challenges faced by LHBTI people in Norwegian society. The Committee also carried out a consultation based on the draft representative. The interesting thing about that hearing was that most hearing bodies had the government's action plan as the addressee of their opinions, and several of the hearing bodies felt that the government's action plan could have been somewhat tighter and somewhat more concrete. It also addresses the undersigned in a comment on the matter. However, the Committee considers it particularly important to identify the living conditions of LHBTI individuals in the Norwegian community. No such living conditions study has been carried out since 2008, and today the Centre Party has made a proposal in the Chamber, proposal No. 7, where the government is asked to carry out such a nationwide living conditions survey. I would already like to inform you that the Christian People's Party supports the proposal made by the Central Party. The Committee points out that, although the living conditions of LHBTI individuals in Norway, compared to other countries, are still high unsolved challenges and LHBTI people continue to face both formal and informal discrimination in Norway. People who violate standards for sex and sexuality experience violations of their rights and experience poor living conditions more often than others. As the proposers point out, discrimination in the workplace, bullying in schools, discrimination in health services and large differences between cities and countries are the perceived possibility of being open, some of the major challenges LHBTI people face every day in Norway. The Committee is committed to saying that we must take this seriously, and also on the basis of that, I think it would make sense if we had received a new nationwide living conditions survey. The rights of LHBTI persons must be safeguarded, and discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression must be combated. As the Government of the Action Plan also points out, research shows that there is still a need to strengthen the rights and quality of life of LHBTI individuals, change attitudes and combat hateful expressions and hate crime against these groups. The committee is also concerned about listening to the organisations that were at the hearing. Then I am thinking of FRI, SEIF, Skeiv Verden and Redd Barna, who, like the proposers, drew particular attention to the situation of asylum seekers, including the need for LHBTI people to be given priority to decentralised asylum recipients in key areas. This is important for the safety of persons and the ability to meet competences and not least to meet networks. This is something we hope the government will continue to work on. This is also something the government itself calls for in its own action plan, but active action must be followed up. As mentioned above, several hearing bodies pointed out that the action plan is too vague in terms of concrete actions. It is important that the action plan is followed up in a concrete way. This proposal for a representative promotes very many proposals that the government should consider in order to strengthen its own action plan. So we know that this action plan is an action plan where nine departments have merged, so the starting point is very good. But, as I said, that must be a concrete plan. So it is that this proposal for a representative also calls for an inquiry into the introduction of a third sex. The Christian People's Party is not there that we want to do such an investigation to introduce a third sex, but an investigation to look at the quality of life of this vulnerable group I think absolutely ought to be in place. As I said, we support proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1122	Although the legal, political homo fight is as good as the goal, the personal struggle for the individual is as difficult now as it was 10, 20, 30 or 40 years ago. Today in Norway, in 2017, young people are literally ashamed of themselves. Today, while we are debating this proposal from the Workers' Party, the NRK launches the fall's bet, and apologize in advance, President, but it is called "Jävla homo" and is a documentary series about how life is for young skews in 2017. I think a lot of people will be surprised when the documentary comes up. Action against discrimination and better living conditions for LHBT individuals cannot be taken too easily. Under the previous Labour Party-led government, many steps were taken to equalise LHBT people legally, and we were given greater protection against discrimination, among other things. through the establishment of common marriage law, the right to adoption, the artificial conception of lesbians, the increased protection of trans-persons and the strengthening of work against hate crime. We improved the financial conditions of the organisations working in the field, we established the LHBT Centre, got an increase in support for Pride events, to the magazine Blick and a high level of competence, so-called Rosa competence, for employees in school, health care and police. We pursued an active foreign policy where equality and LHBT were a priority part of both bilateral and multilateral foreign and development policies. These measures and two concrete action plans for LHBT individuals made progress. In spite of that, you're not in the goal at all. "Equal gay" is still one of the most used shells in the school yard. 40 pst. of all men in Norway are negative to the fact that two men rent each other in the street, one in four think that gays are repulsive, and almost as many pigs of the thought of it. People who violate standards for sex and sexuality experience a violation of their rights and experience worse living conditions than others. Discrimination in the workplace, bullying in schools, discrimination in health services and wide differences between cities and countries in the ability to be open are some of the challenges LHBT people face every single day in Norway, and there are good examples of the need to strengthen LHBT policy. Unfortunately, we cannot say that this government still has the active work of our government leading nationally and internationally to LHBT equality. On the contrary, it began freshly with budget cuts. It was then three years before the government — and that week after we presented this proposal — presented a new action plan. The problem with it was, as this government has tradition, that the plan and policy were slaughtered by those for whom it was intended. The organisations complained that the plan is not concrete, there are no new measures there, and it is not followed up in the State budget. There won't be any change in living conditions of party speeches and empty plans. Equality does not come about by itself, nor does it come about in this policy area. I am pleased that all the parties here in this Chamber – with the exception of the Right and the Advance Party – are so clear that there is a need for a strengthening of the LHBT policy, and that it now also looks like we can have a majority in favour of the proposal for a new life-cycle study. That's something. People shouldn't be ashamed of themselves in 2017 because of the one they love. I would like to make a new comment later on the explanations of vote on the proposals that have been put forward today, and also on the proposals of the Labour Party, as the fact that so many parties do not sit on the committee and promote proposals on the table today makes this a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1139	This proposal for a representative proposes a new action plan for LHBTI people. It is a bit like turning open the doors, and it said the representative Trettebergstien himself, all the time this has already been done by the government. The plan was presented in June 2016. In the Action Plan, the government is increasing police efforts to combat hate crime. The investigation of hate crime shall be a priority throughout the country, and there shall be equal treatment of hate crimes in all police districts. Hat talk, harassment and hate crime are a big problem. Many experience harassment online, in the schoolyard and in their own family. No one should be exposed to the heat that they are, and that is why we are strengthening the police's work against this. We strengthen the work of bullying with new bullying laws, we raise the competence of bullying in schools and kindergartens, and we also increase the competence of gender identity and gender expression. Children and young people in LHBTI may face challenges in many arenas, including: in meeting different public services. For this reason, it is important to apply different measures to schools and kindergartens. At a young age, one today finds information on different topics that young people are concerned about. We strengthen the knowledge of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression at young people, so that both young LHBTI and others can easily get answers to questions they have about this. In parts of the immigrant community, people are at risk of being subjected to harassment, discrimination and violence, both within and outside the immediate family. It is important that immigrant organisations themselves put this on the agenda. In addition, the plan sets out to provide awareness-raising work for the immigrant population and to focus more on the rights of LHBTI people in the teaching of social skills for newly arrived refugees. Competence for gender gaps must also be raised in selected asylum recipients, and an assessment of what is needed to ensure that LHBTI persons experience asylum recipients as safe. These are just some of the many actions included in the action plan. In addition, this government has made it easier to change legal gender. People must live their lives without discrimination and in transparency. The action plan submitted has more than 40 actions to be implemented and several of them are in line with what the Workers' Party is now proposing. This plan is not final, but it covers several areas with which it is important to have something done. Safe neighbourhoods, equivalent public services and improved quality of life for particularly vulnerable groups are the three areas of action selected. Now it's important that the plan is followed up by action, not that we make even more plans. Then I would like to report that the Right supports the Senter party's proposal for a living condition study, and this is well related to the committee's comment that is already in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1162	The Labour Party has put forward a proposal to ask the government to submit an action plan for LHBTI. We share the intention behind the proposal. As has been said here, the government has developed an action plan against discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression for 2017–2020, called Security, Diversity, Transparency. But the plan has been criticized for being too vague and too undercommittal and for the budget not giving room for strengthening this field. It is quite clear that the draft representative points to many specific areas which should have been strengthened in an action plan. The problem is that we are not in the committee, and we cannot support the proposal of the Labour Party as a whole – it is part of the indent in which we are not a few, and it has some budgetary implications that we cannot take through a Document 8 proposal. Now, the Labour Party will come up again and tell us how they will present this – whether it is split up or not – because we have got a little different signals. When we look at what is in the vote today, and there are no other proposals from the beginning of the sitting, we are prepared to vote against the proposal for a representative, but in any case I want to make good on what point we are dealing with. We will be able to support the point of strengthening work on Rosa's skills in working life, health care, school, kindergartens, police and asylum recipients, and that work is done systematically and nationwide, i.e. the first indent. We support the point of securing Skeivt archive further operations over the state budget, cf. our own Document 8 proposal on exactly that. We support the point of securing the magazine Blink further operations and possibilities for further dissemination via the school libraries. Instead of a research project to look at the needs of life-stage policies and at the same time to ask for a life-cycle survey and a big-time report, we have an alternative proposal, in which we are very happy to ask the government to conduct a nation-wide life-cycle study and, on the basis of it, to present a case to the Storting for the necessary measures. As it looks, there will be multiples today. That is good, and it is also in line with what I see the committee has written in the vote. I want to make it a suggestion. We can support the indent to ensure that hate crime is systematically followed up and that all police districts are given competence in the field. We could also have supported the indent of including sexual harassment and hatred choices in the work against bullying, but we have a problem that we're always going to have a lot of different things into the training laws, and we're going to reserve ourselves against that. Otherwise, we could have supported such a proposal as well, but not as it is now. We also support the thrust of reviewing the conditions for LHBTI people seeking asylum in Norway. We could also have supported the proposal to strengthen LHBTI knowledge as part of the sexual education at school. Now at least I've done the right thing about how we've handled the different indents, but as I'm considering the matter now, we're going to vote against the whole-hearted proposal. I'm making the proposal from the Center Party that's been distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1190	The representative then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1196	I would like to thank the workers' party representatives who have put forward the proposal. An important work has remained too quiet under today's government. I'm proud of SV's history in the gay fight. Marriage lawmaking is an important example, at last two of the same sex who love each other can get engaged in church. There is formality and real discrimination. What we elected people can do is to make sure that people can be who they are, and say that love is equivalent. Children and young people who feel that their love or identity is not embraced by what one unfortunately often calls normal should have the same freedom as the majority. Although, fortunately, holdups have changed in just a few decades, we can't borrow again. Nothing comes of itself. Structure must be used to identify discriminatory practices in areas outside the field of vision. If everyone is to have freedom to live out their identity, the laws must be adapted to the truth, not the other way around. We support all the sub-points of the Labour Party's proposal for a new Intersectional Action Plan for LHBTI. The proposal is also supported by institutions and trade unions, while promoting the building and dissemination of knowledge. We are pleased that the Labour Party now supports the proposal to set up a third legal gender category – first we get a society with real gender gaps. For some people, the legal division of sex comes across self-experience and biological sex identity. It should respect the law. We will add some suggestions. The representatives of the Labour Party will inter alia: review the conditions for LHBTI persons seeking asylum in Norway. To this end, the SV makes two concrete proposals. We propose: ‘The government asks the Government to review the terms of the LHBTI persons applying for residence because of the risk of persecution in their country of origin. The review must take into account the real risk situation and not just the extent to which the country’s discriminatory criminal laws are enforced.’ This is because we see today’s practice taking too little into account actual situations in relevant countries. Although LHBTI people are not prosecuted, the real risk situation may indicate that it is not safe to return refugees to their country of origin. Several countries prohibit any positive mention of LHBTI people, and the same group is subjected to structural harassment and hate crime without any protection from the police and the judiciary. So we want to review the conditions that are giving LHBTI people abstinence on a humanitarian basis. In addition, SV suggests: ‘The government is asked to amend the foreign regulation so that LHBTI refugees may be exempted from the maintenance requirement in order to have family reunification with a partner, even when no marriage or cohabitation has been documented for at least 2 years.’ So this is about family reunification, not family start-up. The period of rest during which the maintenance requirement and some other conditions are not required to be met do not, in practice, apply to ‘discipline’ refugees, as it must be documented by marriage or that one has been a partner for at least two years. It might be hard to prove that you've had a similar relationship if you've fled from a place that practises criminalisation. In practice, this means that "discipline" refugees must apply for family establishment with the more stringent conditions that apply then, even if the relationship actually arose before they arrived in Norway. So we want to help LHBTI refugees get existing family members to Norway on the same terms as heterofiles. Under the red-green government, an expert selection under the Health Directorate was set up to review trans-human health and legal remedies. Last year we finally got new legislation on legal gender change, but the expert group’s advice on health changes has not been followed up. At present, only national treatment services for transsexualism in the Rikshospitalet can decide who should be entitled to gender-based treatment — or not — and thus receive treatment on a blue prescription. Many people are rejected and do not receive that treatment and care for them. We therefore propose that: ‘The Government requests the termination of the Rikshospitalet treatment monopoly for transpersons and to ensure that the requirements for access to gender-based confirmatory treatment are changed in accordance with the recommendations of the expert report entitled ‘Religion for Gender – Health for All Genders’. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1235	The representative of Ingunn Gjerstad has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1240	The left is concerned that all people should have equal rights and opportunities to exploit their abilities, live their lives and participate in society, regardless of gender. In the Left, we want a society where people are primarily people, not primarily sex. The government has presented an action plan in this area that has been criticised for both being vague and under-commitment and for having too few actions. Then it's really good that we're now tightening up with a number of suggestions here in the hall. For this is essential to succeed in getting a systematic investment in all social sectors across the country, which means that we experience equal life that can be lived by everyone, regardless of background. It is important to have competence in all areas, such as the strengthening of working life, health care, school, kindergartens and the police. It is also important to have institutions that are basic institutions for this work, such as the Skivt archive in Bergen, which left ensured that funds were secured, the LHBT centre and a magazine such as Blink. We need knowledge about living conditions for LHBTI people, but that's why it's important to carry out both research projects and living conditions studies to make sure that we know how to make a good policy, which includes everyone in this society. We also believe that there should be greater access to asylum for the kind of persecution that many of them experience around the world. And then we think it's a little offensive of the Workers' Party just to ask the government to consider a third gender. Once again, we are promoting our proposal, which I want to address, that we should start work on introducing a third gender category. What amazes me in this debate is why it is a problem for others that this is important for some. This has no effect on all of us, who believe that we fit well within the gender categories that exist. But for some, this is important, and I don't understand why it's a problem for us that falls into today's gender categories, that someone wants us to have a third category. There's nothing in it that limits us, but it frees those who today feel limited by the categories we have. So we're asking the government to come up with a bill on a third gender category, and we're taking up suggestions on this today. Then there are many good measures that should be included in these projects, such as Rosa's competence in both work, health care, school, kindergartens, police and asylum recipients, and you have to make sure that job is done systematically and nationwide. We also believe that it is important to ensure a Skivt archive, and that the main thing to ensure a Skivt archive is to ensure the left's influence over the budgets. However, it is also important to ensure the Blick magazine, and that it is also communicated via the school libraries in Norway. Then I'm going to promise to fight hate crime. That means that you must not only have a police officer who is dedicated, and who knows something about this, but they must also have a systematic follow-up to it. It's about having an understanding of the sexual harassment and bullying that falls under our training law, but also of what falls under the criminal law and the other parts of the police's work here. Then it is important to strengthen knowledge as part of sexual education in school. There is nothing that prevents as much assault, violence and oppression as having knowledge of them as they are, and having knowledge that enables you to be safe on your own. That's why we believe that having competence in this in municipalities and in schools is very important. When we also want municipalities to have a strategy in this field, it shows an example of many of the areas where it is important – in order to shift power and responsibility down to the municipalities – that we have municipalities that have professional competence and that are able to accept that responsibility. So this is probably a reason why the Left is in favour of a municipal reform, because we want municipalities that have that kind of competence and that can create that kind of action plan, and that know how to properly follow up on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1259	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1266	There are still major challenges for LHBTI living conditions in Norway. People who violate traditional standards for sex and sexuality still experience daily violations of their rights, and they often experience much worse living conditions than other people. That is why we must have an active policy, and we must have attitudes that reduce discrimination in the workplace, reduce bullying in school, and reduce discrimination in the health sector. In Norway, there shall be room for LHBTI persons, both private, public, working, organisational and religious. That is why I would like to thank the Labour Party, which has promoted the proposal we are debating now. It's great that this has triggered an even wider political commitment to further developing Norwegian society, so LHBTI people can experience society as safe and inclusive. This is a debate that makes Norway a more civilised society. We give recognition to the government, as in June 2016, the same month as the Labour Party presented its proposal, launched its action plan, ‘Security, diversity and transparency — the government’s action plan against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression’. The government's proposals could have been more offensive and more concrete. It could also have been the Labour Party's proposal, but both are progress. The Green Party believes that it must be an overall objective in Norway to ensure an equivalent health offer to all, regardless of gender identity, and to work for an inclusive health service that promotes equality for LHBTI people. This means that we need to work systematically to eliminate all forms of discrimination based on gender or gender identity. I would like to thank the Left for putting this into practice by proposing to introduce a third gender category and not just to investigate it, as the Labour Party wishes. The Greens, of course, support this proposal. Thanks to SV for good proposals to ensure the rights of LHBTI persons among refugees and for a changed practice for gender-based treatment in accordance with the recommendations of the 2015 expert report entitled ‘Sex Education – Health for All Genders’. In addition, we support the proposal of the Centre Party for a new nationwide LHBTI living conditions survey and the proposal of the SV to gain more knowledge about LHBTI people selling sex. Both of these proposals, together with many of the measures proposed by the Workers' Party to the LHBTI Action Plan, will help us achieve the goal that all LHBTI people will be able to experience our society as safe and inclusive. I would like to list some measures that the Green Party has not rightly proposed in this matter – because we did not participate in committee proceedings – but which are in our policy. It's enhancing the competence of school health staff in LHBTI to carry out a pilot project with LHBTI certification of permanent doctors, health centres and school health services, on a model from Sweden; to assess a certification scheme for LHBTI health care telematics, ensuring that organisations work strategically from an LHBTI perspective and meet the patient with respect and competence; increasing health and police training on rape and violence in close relationships, particularly around vulnerable groups such as sex workers and LHBTI strengthening the provision of treatment for trans-persons and others seeking health care regarding gender identity or similar; to increase LHBTI competence in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs and with other authorities so that they can follow a target that LHBTI refugees are not expelled to countries at risk of persecution or punishment due to sexual orientation, gender or gender identity; Then we have to come back to exactly how the Green Party votes on some of the bullet points and proposals that I have not mentioned here. And then I have to say that it is not quite certain that I am able to vote at all, because you have to share among your big group in the Green Party, as with other parties, but to the extent that we get it, what I've been through now is the main lines of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1304	We have come a long way in the rights of LHBTI people, but there are still significant challenges in several areas of society. We need more knowledge, and we need to work against discrimination against LHBTI people. It's about fundamental human rights, and it's about equivalency. The Government aims to safeguard the rights of LHBTI persons, to contribute to transparency and to actively counter discrimination against LHBTI persons. Last year, the government launched the Action Plan ‘Security, diversity and transparency’. The plan has more than 40 actions in several areas of society, and nine departments were involved in the work and will contribute to its follow-up in the coming years. The representative proposal of the Workers' Party is largely covered by the Government's action plan for LHBTI people. Then we can discuss whether it's too weak, and whether it's too little money, but it's a political discussion. I would like to stress that very many of the measures contained in the proposal for a representative have been taken into account in the Government's action plan. The Directorate for Children, Youth and Family is responsible for key professional tasks in the LHBTI field. They shall ensure the coordination and good professional implementation of the new plan. The Directorate shall also implement a number of actions of the plan, including: update knowledge, develop new indicators in the LHBTI field and assess the need for new research. There is a need for greater local involvement in LHBTI issues, better competence in public enterprises, such as schools and health services, and a clearer response to hate crime. That is why we are strengthening efforts in these areas. Increased knowledge and more research are central to further work in the field. The development of living conditions for LHBTI people needs to be looked at over time, and the proposal from the Central Party, as it looks like there is a majority for now, is quite fine for the government to follow up. It is important that we know more about groups that are not so visible, especially inter-sex individuals or LHBTI people with minority backgrounds. We need to improve knowledge about rainbow families and the close relationships of LHBTI people, not least from a life-cycle perspective. Discreet archives have an important role to play in documenting and disseminating knowledge about the history and culture of the LHBTI population and will continue as a separate action in the plan. Work against hateful expressions is important. No one shall be subjected to violence or hoarding for whom they are, or for what they stand for. In 2016, the government launched its own strategy against hateful expressions. This is the first time that a Norwegian government is bringing together its efforts to address hateful opinions in its own strategy of action against justice and police, research, meeting places, children and young people, working life and the media sector. We have to work for an open and inclusive society. It should not be such that young LHBTI people dare not get out of the closet because of fear of attitudes among family, friends and society. The police survey shows that a few of those who have been subjected to hate crime have chosen to report the case. Police have an important role to play in combating hate crime, and in the action plan we want to improve knowledge of law and registration practices in all the police districts of the country. We also want to develop larger disciplines on hate crime. We need to launch an external, comprehensive investigation into the protection of criminal law against discrimination. It will provide a solid professional basis for assessing the provisions of criminal law on hate crime. Several of the measures of the Government Action Plan involve close cooperation with the voluntary organisations, including the Rosa Competence Project. Vulnerable and vulnerable children shall be well cared for. Pink competences provide better knowledge of LHBTI children to child-restraint workers and health centres. I am concerned that young people will be allowed to be who they are. LHBTI children often face more challenges in response to public services than other children. We have launched initiatives in kindergarten, school, child protection and sports organisations to increase the competence of LHBTI people. Bufdir runs the website young.no, and we want to strengthen young.no's knowledge of LHBTI. This is an important source of knowledge for many young people. Unfortunately, it is still the way – as the representative Trittenbergstuen said – that ‘homo’ is one of the most used shells in Norwegian school. We can't accept that. Zero tolerance against bullying is now proposed. We want to give schools clearer and stricter rules on what to do when children are bullied, and strengthen the rights of their children and their parents. The new legislation will also be an effective tool against bullying and poor school environment. It is necessary to increase knowledge of the rights and life situation of LHBTI people in Norway also in a migrant perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1336	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1342	As the debate today shows, we have very many major equality challenges again before the living conditions and living conditions for LHBTI people are as good as for everyone else. This government and this Council of State presented a gender equality message that does not bring equality forward and that was slaughtered by those for whom it exists, by all those concerned with gender equality, the NGOs and the experts. An action plan for LHBTI has now been presented to address the same response. Everyone who works in the field researches in the field and knows something about the field, believes that it is too little concrete, and that it does not bring the equality forward. The action plan lacks new measures. But it is also the case that equality does not happen on its own or on the basis of plans – it must be followed up in the different budgets. The budgets of this government have either remained silent or have resulted in real cutbacks for the organisations concerned. What is it that these organizations have not understood, as the Council of State has understood, as she continues to claim that this plan is [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1351	Councillor Horne, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1356	In the work on the new action plan, as the government announced last year, we were very busy having good recording meetings and getting recordings from the organisations working on this field. We have also had close and close cooperation with them. I believe that the action plan presented is very clear on the challenges we face, but also that we need more research in this area and intensification of work in some areas. It is not the case that the organisations have been cut in their budgets. We know that when it comes to budgetary discussion, it is often a priority. There has been a steady increase in this field in the budget. I believe that the action plan presented by the government is very clear on the challenges we face, but also shows that we have a way forward that we must go and that we must also strengthen. We have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1363	We politicians are responsible for laws, regulations and budgetary appropriations, but we also have another important function: what attitudes we show. We know that walking in a parade has been historically important, and it is important to be allowed to fight for the right to show who you are. It's important – symbolic and practical – for very, very many. It symbolizes what rights we have acquired in the homo fight. It is also used to mark which matches remain. I am very happy that it is quite common for Norwegian politicians from all parties to participate in the parade under Oslo Pride, and I am very happy that the Council of State has also chosen to go to the parade in recent years. One who is not as happy in parades is the Council of State party trap Sylvi Listhaug, who used the weekend occasion to criticise the leader of the Christian People's Party for participation in just the parade under EuroPride. What does the Council of State really think that her party trap chooses to criticise the participation of another politician in such an important mark? [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1370	Councillor Horne, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1375	I cannot quite see that this line is synonymous with the matter we are dealing with now. As Minister of Gender Equality, I have participated in the Pride parade for the last three years. It was very natural to do that this year, and it was important for us also to show solidarity against what had happened in the United States just a short time before this parade. It is about showing respect for the individual, but also highlighting the importance of getting far in Norway with regard to the rights of LHBTI individuals. The Government has been committed to strengthening the rights, both at national and international level. Then it'll be up to Councillor Listhaug whether she chooses to go on the parade or not to go on the parade.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1382	First of all, I would like to express a very positive attitude in relation to what the Council of State said in its statement, that she is in favour of carrying out a living conditions survey. I hope that work can get started very quickly. An overall committee has also, in the examination of this Document 8, referred to the hearing bodies such as Skeiv Verden and SEIF, which are concerned with the situation of asylum seekers, including the need for LHBTI persons to be given priority to decentralised asylum recipients in key areas. The Committee considers that it is important for the safety of persons and the ability to meet competences and networks. I'd like to ask the Council to explain how you're dealing with just this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1389	I like the question. It was a little short speaking time instead. Let me stress that it is important to increase knowledge of the rights and living situation of LHBTI people with a minority background. Several measures in the Government’s action plan aim to protect LHBTI people with a migrant background. We want to see if more priority groups can be given to the withdrawal of quota refugees, and we want to increase the competence of the LHBTI field among those interviewing in an asylum process. Asylum recipients shall facilitate a safe everyday life for all residents, including those with a LHBTI background.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1397	It's an open line, Anette Trettebergstuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1402	You have to use the opportunity when you get it all of a sudden. I want to go back to my previous line, about how important it is that we politicians not only with laws and rights and money allocations to those who work to improve living conditions, stand up for LHBTI people, but also act as good role models and show our support for those who have difficulties. Then I come back to the State Council of Listhaug's play now this weekend, where she criticized the leader of the Christian People's Party, Knut Arild Hareide, to participate in the Oslo Pride parade – an extremely important action for many. What does the Council of State really think of the action of the Council of State, Listhaug, as such? What kind of signal does the Council of State think it sends out to the many young people out there who experience discrimination, who experience living a worse life than everyone else, that one Council of State criticises another politician for attending an important LHBTI event?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1409	Good law is important. Good enforcement of the law we have is important, and it is important that all politicians are good examples for all groups of society. As Minister of Gender Equality, I have been very clear about the work that we have done, and the work that the government wants to highlight in the LHBTI field, and has participated in Pride parades. Questions about the opinion that Sylvi Listhaug made this weekend are questions that I believe the representative Trettebergstuen has to ask the Council of State Listhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1418	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1425	Fortunately, many seven-mile steps have been taken in Norway — and in parts of the world — in the acceptance and tolerance of the LHBTI population. However, I am genuinely concerned about how we as a society meet trans-talented children – to me a strange expression; children are gifted no matter what edition or gender they have. In this way, it is important that we facilitate important and appropriate competences — and knowledge — about just these children. It is necessary to set up several courses/training courses for those working with children and young people to ensure that the trans-gendered children are recognised, loved and understood as the children they are — for example. a daily event such as how we as adults handle wardrobe situations and questions from other children or other adults, that we adults have enough knowledge to deal with the situation properly. The statistics on mental health in these children are worrying. The suicide rate is high. Competence in how to meet this serious challenge is also important, along with the organization of how to get children to live their lives as they actually are. That is why I ask the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, together with the Minister for Health, to review the procedures for starting hormonal medicine, to do e.g.: puberty is easier to review for each individual child. As it is today, children have to wait too long and puberty is well started before hormone treatment starts. Another moment is the decision-makers. They meet these children throughout the country, and it is important that the decision-makers are prepared to meet these children outside the big cities. Children deserve to be met by local doctors with good knowledge and understanding. In conclusion, both Oslo Pride, the Rainbow Days in Bergen and Stavanger on Skevenå are festivals of joy and diversity. Internationally, Pride festivals help to mark LHBTI as an equivalent part of society. Visibility and transparency are the most important means of combating prejudice and lack of knowledge. That's why I absolutely welcome all those who are involved in the fight for better living conditions and against discrimination against people who are not as A4 as most of us. But I remember that we must not forget the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1438	I refer to the change of lines and had probably expected that the Minister for Equality had distanced himself from Minister for Integration Listhaug's hair-driving statements this weekend, where she used the opportunity to criticise the Christian People's Party leader's participation in an extremely important event for many, that is, Oslo Pride's parade. But we'll have to take it with the right government council when the occasion comes. I asked for the floor to give an explanation of vote. Many parties are not represented in this committee, and it often complicates our proceedings – even today. The Labour Party chose to promote all our many bullet points with proposals for good and strengthened LHBTI policies on a single proposal to make it simple, as it appeared – after analysis also with the parties outside the Committee – that these proposals do not receive a majority. However, it now turns out that several parties can support our proposal to launch a new liver corpuscle study and, on the basis of it, present a case of measures for the Storting. The proposal of the centre party is already mentioned in the vote, but there we have a supplement that goes on that we want to focus on life-phase policies for LHBTI people. But when it turns out that our proposal has a majority – with the small change that we are taking it out with life-phase policies – it is good, but we are therefore choosing, for the sake of simplicity, to promote these measures as just one proposal, since none of the other proposals will have a majority in the Chamber. It will be complicated for the presidency to go through the voting if we don't do it this way. When it comes to the other proposals that have been put forward today: the Labour Party will vote against proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We want to investigate the introduction of a third sex with a view to introducing it, but we think you should do it the right way, and then it's about getting knowledge of the practical consequences and then going step by step. We are voting in favour of proposal No. 3 from SV, we are voting against proposal No. 4, against proposal No 5 for proposal No 6, and – then – for proposal No. 7 from the Central Party, which is essentially equivalent to the proposal in the position but which is moderated.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1449	Then the representative Anette Trettebergstien has taken up the proposal to which she referred and has given an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1455	In my first post, I was told that – and why – SV is presenting the proposal no. 3-5, but I didn't get proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox Workers' party representatives have a good suggestion about the need for more knowledge of the life-cycle and living conditions of LHBTI people. We think it's important to look at a particularly vulnerable group, which is far too little knowledge of, that is, LHBTI people who sell sex. By identifying the scale and problems of this group, we will be far stronger in putting in place good help measures for them. We suggest to you: ‘The government is asking for more and better knowledge of LHBTI people selling sex and for targeted relief measures targeting vulnerable young people.’ In addition to our own four proposals, we will vote for the Labour Party's proposals and the Left and the Centre's. And I want to thank the Green Party – and others who had to – for supporting us. I think this debate shows that we are still impatient and have done work in this important field if we are to ensure justice and equal rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1467	As the rapporteur, I would just like to thank all the parties for a very good debate. I think many things have been well-lit through this debate, and I think it is nice to see that we are all concerned with combating discrimination in relation to LHBTI people. It's about being able to give everyone an opportunity to live a worthy life, and not least live a worthy life in openness. I just want to comment on the question that the representative of Anette Trettebergstien asked Horne about what happened at the Oslo Symposium. I think you also understand that the question is coming, because there was only one person who was criticized, and that was the Christian People's Party leader. Of course, it was also other politicians – also from Listhaug’s own party – who went on this Pride train. That's why it gets a little weird that this criticism only hit one person. And that's how I understand that questions are asked about it. At the same time, I understand from the Council of State Horne that this is a question that should first and foremost be answered by Listhaug. I think it has been a good debate. Many proposals have been made. What has been the main concern of the Christian People's Party is that the government's own action plan is strengthened and that it becomes more concrete. I hope that the hearings that have taken place, where this action plan is criticised for being too vague, are taken further by the government. And as I also mentioned in my first post: if there are proposals in this proposal for a representative that can help strengthen the government's own action plan, I hope the government will follow it up. That being said, thank you for a good debate, and I hope that we will soon be able to see the outcome of what seems to be a majority, namely that we will have a nationwide living conditions survey.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1478	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 7 and 8 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1507	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1516	Processing the two options, Input. 167 L and Innst. 168 S – Changes to the eco-law and consent to the approval of Decision No EEA Committee 92/2016 of 29 April 2016 incorporating into the EEA Agreement Regulation 2015/2120 on access to the open Internet and international roaming, and Implementing Regulation 2015/2532 on mobile termination tariffs – the Committee has chosen to present these comments. There is a joint committee that is behind the comments and options. Norway is one of the most digitised countries in the world. Our inhabitants are active and demanding users of electronic communications. This requires good organisation, and it also requires that the law does not involve desired development. The purpose of the Ekomlova is to ensure good, reasonable and forward-looking electronic communications services to users throughout the country through the efficient use of resources for society by facilitating sustainable competition, as well as stimulating business development and innovation. It is important to ensure that the Internet continues to be open and non-discriminatory for all types of communication and for content distribution. In this proposition, the Ministry of Transport proposes the necessary legislative changes, which must be in place to facilitate the establishment of legal frameworks, so that a person is allowed to include network neutrality rules in regulations. The proposition also covers, inter alia: further development of the rules on international roaming, the introduction of eCall, the updating of radio equipment, the necessary changes in the basis of confidentiality for the fee to national communication authority, as well as some adjustments and changes resulting from developments and experience from the time elapsed from the previous statutory audit. As I said in the introduction, there is a joint committee behind these comments and the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1535	I am pleased that the Storting joins so unitedly with the changes proposed in the Ecoom Act. There's a lot of small and big things that people may not think about, but that's still important to people in their everyday lives, who fall better into place here. Good network neutrality is ensured to ensure that all Internet traffic is treated equally. Now we get this better in terms of regulations. It is proposed to implement an EU legislation providing for the maximum price add-on for mobile operators to charge end-users during guest calls in the EEA area. I also believe that consumers – not only in Norway but across Europe – will appreciate that. There are many who have never been so shocked when they see the mobile bill after traveling abroad. eCall is important in view of increased road safety and not least in order to provide assistance in the future if the accident is over. By having a common system for this across Europe, car manufacturers will know what to install, and they will be able to notify the bruises more quickly and better when an accident is needed. Then there's something that's probably more important for the echo operators, namely the over-price refund between the echo operators. This implies clarification of the legal provision in force in order to clarify that repayment of excess prices resulting from infringements of the non-discrimination obligation is also covered by the provision. There is a point concerning the amendment of the expropriation rules, so that the legislation is restricted only to an owner or the right of use of an area which is not a body for the State or municipality. So there are some technical things here, but consumers, I think over time, look at the bills they get when they travel abroad, that common EU legislation on guest calls will turn out to be positive. Not least in view of the development of better networks in Norway, the rules on network neutrality are important. Having a digital system that works in the country is very important when we see the development things take. Norway is well ahead of this. We have a population that is used to using digital aids. Making this available across the country, and having good competition in the market, is important to achieve the development and use we want. Luckily, we see that the telecom operators are investing huge sums. We're talking about billions of dollars a year. This means that a constant both gets better mobile coverage and fiber coverage across the country. I appreciate this, and I'm glad that the Storting will be so unanimous and work on in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1550	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1566	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1575	It is a pleasure for me to be rapporteur on this matter, Prop. 140 L. It started a few years ago, when I, together with the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, promoted a Document No. Eight motions for resolutions, document Nos. 8:94 S for the 2013–2014 period, to ensure that counties have the possibility to impose environmental requirements on the taxi industry. We wrote there: ‘To achieve the climate target and improve the critical air quality in major cities, Norway needs to implement all measures that can be taken to achieve the target.’ We meant it was. «necessary changes to the professional transport legislation to ensure a clear basis for the municipalities and the municipality of Oslo to impose specific environmental requirements on the industry». That's why we just asked the Storing to make such a decision. It was Hans Fredrik Gruvan who was the rapporteur on the matter. On 2 December 2014, a unanimous committee said that: ‘all measures that may have a positive impact on urban air quality should be considered. In local climate work, municipalities and county councils play a central role, and it is important that the state facilitates the necessary local space for action’. It was an almost unanimous committee which presented the following proposals for decisions: «The government asks the government to ensure that county councils have the possibility to impose zero and low-emission conditions on new taxis through Section 11 of the Professional Traffic Act.» So it's very positive that the department is now back with this in Stortinget, and we're taking note in the committee, in our comments: «The legislative proposal is a proposal to amend Section 9 of the Transport Act and will enable the powers of the authorising authority to require that the person who has or is granted licence must use a low- or zero-emission vehicle in the taxi business. The Committee notes that the legislative proposal will provide the basis for the power of attorney to determine whether an upper limit for environmentally harmful emissions related to the operation of vehicles to be used in taxi operations should be introduced. Such a condition shall apply to all passenger-car-size vehicles used as taxis in the authorised district in question.’;» Then the Committee is not entirely unanimous on one point. The members of the Workers’ Party, the Right, the Christian People’s Party, the Centre Party and the Left refer to the Environment Directorate’s input that the legal framework should be revised by 2020 in order to be able to set zero-emission technology requirements for all taxi runs because, in the coming years, there will be a larger range of vehicles requiring zero-emission requirements. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by an overall committee and I recommend the proposals available from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1612	I agree with the rapporteur's statement, but I would like to add a few more comments to the taxi industry and the climate challenge. Fortunately, there has gradually become a broad consensus that we are facing a major challenge of controlling global warming, because it will have far-reaching consequences for all people living on the globe. Our share of responsibility for taking national cuts will be very much linked to the transport offer, because it is the sector that is the deciduous largest that is not covered by the quota system. The dross are an important part of the collective system here in the country. We are very busy getting buses that either go on gas to bring down the emissions, or use biogas to be climate-neutral, or that can now also go on battery, and thus with Norwegian, clean hydropower is emission-free. In that case, it should be lacking that we could not also make demands on the last part of the collective system, which is the taxis, that they should also be a low-emission vehicle, preferably a zero-emission vehicle. A central question here is that we have an available technology. One thing is in the big cities, where it is cheap and can be efficient to establish charging infrastructure that allows taxis to operate preferably 24 hours a day, have available fuel and can fill it quickly enough. Something else is in other parts of the country, which is more long distance, where people don't live so closely, and where there will be a greater distance between charging stations. Then it is wise that it is possible for the regional authorities to set these requirements and assess what is appropriate in relation to the available technology that the cars have. And to a perhaps underestimated contribution: those who travel part of the United States, you can notice that Toyota Prius has become a very popular taxi. It is primarily related to the low energy costs, for the cost of operating the car is lower than the cost of a car that is entirely fossil fuel-based and does not use the energy in the same way as a hybrid car. It could also contribute to increasing demand for these types of solutions, in an industry that is also under pressure from the margins of fierce competition. Hopefully, this requirement – like many other regulatory requirements in a field where the market does not solve the problems itself, but where we impose regulatory requirements – will contribute to the creation of technology development, because solutions are sought that can meet the regulatory requirements. It is wise to expect the requirement for maxitaxi, i.e. a vehicle that has up to 17 passengers, until we are sure that there is a good enough range of vehicles to meet the standard you are going to have on public transport. Let me end by stressing that the wording of the comment in the vote is related to having a statutory audit by 2020, with a view to incorporating maxitaxes. If it turns out that technology development, as it often does, goes faster than we expect – yes, we also expect the government to come back earlier with proposals for revision of the law for the Stortinget, so that we can also include the maxitaxes in this important effort to get a zero-emission collective offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1629	We have ambitious climate targets in Norway. This means that the transport sector must bring significant emission reductions to 2030, but also beyond that. I believe that we must have a long-term ambition for zero emissions from the transport sector. For passenger cars, we're in good shape. We are reaching the 2020 targets from the climate agreement already this year – they have already been achieved, namely that new cars should not have emissions higher than 85 grams of CO 2 per kilometer driven. Both the changes in charges implemented in recent years and the continuation of the benefits for zero-emission cars make it not demand that is now limiting the growth of environmentally friendly cars but the supply of cars. It's changing radically. For heavy transport, we have also agreed on a CO 2 fund to contribute to significant reductions in emissions from that sector, and we also have Enova as a very important player, who has only given 1 billion in the last year. kr in support of climate action in the transport sector, including actors such as Tine and ASKO, that are ahead of and take on new technologies. It's positive. In the budget agreement, we also agreed on an ambitious stepping up of blending of biofuels that alone will result in reductions in Norway of 1 million tonnes of CO 2 in 2020, and in the maritime sector, Norway is a global leader in environmentally friendly solutions driven both by government requirements and by our solid coastal and industry environments of competence. This legislative amendment will also make it possible to set environmental requirements for taxis, and that is only positive. Several licensing authorities have wanted to do so for a long time – now they have that opportunity. These are cars that drive a lot, which represent large local emissions, but which also contribute negatively to the CO 2 account. At the same time, as the representative Sivertsen was in, Norway is a long-term country — and a complex country in many ways. Therefore, it is reasonable that the design of these requirements locally should be left to the permission authorities to take it at the pace allowed by technology according to local circumstances. In other words, this is a proposal that strengthens local democracy. It's positive. At the same time, we give cities like Oslo, who want to impose environmental requirements on taxis, the opportunity to do so. Oslo has gone ahead over many years with phase-out of fossil fuels in public transport. It has been a long time since a bourgeois city council called for the use of fossil-free public transport in Oslo by 2020. Now it will also be possible to impose requirements on taxis in this city, with the positive consequences it will have both for local air quality and for reducing the contribution to our national CO 2 accounts. With that, we're joining this legislative amendment, like the rest of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1661	I share with the representative Astrup his vision of zero emissions in the transport sector. For SV, it is a step in the right direction and an important breakthrough that the Stortinget now has a regulation on environmental requirements for taxis. We celebrate today because we know that Oslo now has the opportunity to become the world's first pottery capital. It's a big step forward. This has a broad plurality in Oslo wanted for a long time – except for the so-called Progress Party, then! The Oslo people are incinerating clean and safe air. There are no cars running longer in a year than a taxi. When battery technology makes day-to-day progress and allows one to achieve zero emissions in the new car market within a few years, it would only be lacking that we did not politically make it possible to set environmental requirements for taxis. Therefore, it is no surprise that the Government Declaration states that the government will ‘develop requirements that all new public vehicles, and all new taxis, ferries, scheduled boats and diesel trains, use low- or zero-emission technologies when the technology so requires’. What was more surprising was that after the municipality of Oslo sent proposals for emission claims on the phone, the proposal was stopped by the Minister for Transport. Professional transport laws were not suitable for this type of environmental requirements, we received a hearing. Furthermore, Solvik-Olsen wrote in response to questions from Stortinget that he was ‘in doubt whether it is natural through business regulation to impose specific environmental requirements on taxis in addition to those in general’. This rear-view stand was the reason why the Left and the SV made a proposal in June 2014 to the Stortinget to amend the professional transport legislation so that the law enforcement powers, i.e. the county council, could impose environmental requirements on new taxis. When handling the proposal from SV and left, it became clear that the government was ready to turn around. It's good when such a change can happen. So this is a good day for all those who are occupied with clean and safe air, and for reduced emissions. I would like to have a shorter transition period, I would like to see the municipality have the possibility to make demands for all taxis, including maxitaxies. But let's go -- this is what we celebrate. It is good that the government in any case has managed to deliver the regulatory changes that Stortinget wants. Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1674	I think we all want good urban air, that we all want a better environment around us. We want to bring down harmful emissions, and we want to reduce annoying noise. I think it's okay to take part in this debate rather than create the level that SV here is trying to achieve. There is an overall committee which, as far as I can read the statement, is behind this proposal. Then creating an artificial conflict makes no sense. One should rather rejoice over all the developments that are now taking place. Emissions from new cars have never been lower than they are now — under today’s government and a civil majority. We are now seeing a decrease in emissions from passenger car transport in general, even though the mileage is rising. We have a positive development. SV gives the impression that it's negative. I don't get very close to it, because the criticism comes from a party color that filled our cities with diesel cars. This government and a civil majority fill cities with low-emission and zero-emission cars. I'm proud of that. It's the results that count, even if someone makes it rhetorical exercises. In the last six months, I have visited five of the world's largest car manufacturers. The change that is now happening is happening globally. One sees that there's a change in the control rooms, for one experiences many Gutenberg moments at once. The cost of battery technology, the cost of building renewable energy production, telecommunications solutions, radars, sensors and detectors – all of this comes down to a price level that makes it use on a large scale. Then we see a fantastic development, in which the large capitalist telecommunications producers produce products that have come much further than the socialist-run countries ever joined the environment. Then it's also important that we put in place and push on the political side to make it more effective. The legislation is adapted, aid schemes are established and continued. There are now more instruments — through Enova, through tax incentives — than it has been in the past. This allows the industry to take the green shift without having to go red on the bottom line, but still can make money. It is much easier to make positive changes when the participating actors see that they can continue to operate their business and do not risk going bankrupt. In the legislative proposals submitted here, a licensing authority authorises taxis to require vehicles used in taxi operations to be a zero or low-emission vehicle. The implementation of this within four years is a little about tax legislation for the taxi industry. There are requirements for emission limit values set by the privilege authorities in local regulations. This is what is governed by the counties and the Municipality of Oslo. I'm glad we're here. The size would also like to be able to impose environmental requirements on maxitaxes. We will take that into account. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind for local licensing authorities that some of the ceilings used as taxis also compete with the tourism segment, where there are no such requirements. Ensuring fair competition, I believe, must be a moment of great importance when choosing what the rules should be. Having said that, I'm not in doubt that when we get to 2030, Norway will be able to meet its Paris obligations in a very good way, a little independent of who controls, maybe, but that's because we're now facilitating the use of new technology, creating the market, seeing actors delivering, which makes the majority of cars that run on the roads in 2030, probably low-emission or most likely zero-emission cars. The cost of driving an electric car is much lower than the cost of driving a conventional car. Then it goes without saying that when Elon Musk and other manufacturers believe that in five years' time they will be able to make electric cars that are competitive in price, before charges, compared to petrol and diesel cars, the marginal costs of driving these cars will be lower than for petrol and diesel cars. When one then both has an incentive to buy such a car and sees that it is cheaper to use than the old diesel car one has standing, people are not going to drive diesel cars. If this scenario fails, CO2 emissions from the Norwegian transport sector will fall by more than 60 pst. by 2030. Then we have come very far, in fact beyond what is expected, in achieving our climate goals. It's a positive direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1691	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1696	I agree with the Council of State, which says that very much of this is now going to go a little by itself as well. This is because you see an electric car revolution and a zero-emission revolution among several car brands. But you can also take a little bit of the ‘creed’ for this – among other things. other Norwegian politicians have been involved in driving this technology forward – the fact that we have had the policy we have had. Norway is the country in the world that has the most forward-looking policy in this area, which means that we are involved in driving precisely this technology forward. I noticed that the council said something about maxitaxes, and I was just going to confirm that when we get this change, the same change that is now coming through the law, it will also apply to taxis with motor vehicles registered for up to 17 people, when you have that kind of technology and cars available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1703	I just wrote a letter to the committee about the law on maxitaxes and how to handle it. With regard to the electric car side, Norway should be able to be proud of what we have done over a long period of time. I myself have a party trap that was councillor in Oslo, who was in charge of this. The left has fought for this. But I really want to say that all the parties on the Stortinget, at different times and with different roles, should be part of and share by honor. But what I think is the most important thing here is not necessarily the belief that many factories now make electric cars just because Norway has made them free of charge. What I think is the most important thing Norway has done with this is that other countries see how to organise a society so that the electric car becomes the primary vehicle in the family. Because in some countries – we were just in Germany – they point out that they will not build charging infrastructure because there are so few electric cars. In Norway, we have seen the opposite, that due to the availability of charging infrastructure for electric cars, the electric car has become the primary vehicle for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1710	We see in the taxi industry that there are some people who now have low-carbon cars. There are several that have low-emission cars, but there are a few now that also have zero-emission cars, but there are not many of them. Clearly, it is a rather expensive car based on the tax regime that the taxi industry otherwise has. You can now see the entry of Opel Ampera-e. It will also be seen that hydrogen alternatives will be available on the market as soon as we are able to develop a good enough infrastructure for hydrogen cars in Norway. It will be a great help for the urban areas that have poor air quality, and there is a lot of local pollution. So this is a step in the right direction. Does the Council see that it will be useful for us and the taxi industry to be able to have an ambitious policy to build both charging stations and hydrogen filling stations, especially around and in the big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1716	I think the charging infrastructure is some of the success criteria here, and of course the charging regime that makes it economically interesting to buy the car and use the car. It's an important driver. But if you choose to have an electric car as the only car, for families that only want one car, it's just to make sure you have a range, an important part. Before, some car manufacturers solved that you could buy yourself an electric car, but got the right to borrow a fossil car free of charge from the same brand a given number of weekends, or similar. Now comes Opel-Ampera-e, the new version. Actually, in the next few years, all of the players on the market will have cars with a completely different range than what we're used to just a few years ago. But the development of charging infrastructure, including with high-speed chargers, is very important, especially for those who have a vehicle as a workplace. A taxi driver cannot sit and wait 30–40–50 minutes for the car to be charged, it must be done as quickly as today, and I think we are making good arrangements for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1721	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1728	For four years, the Progress Party has been indebted to the red-green parties for the 2007 car tax conversion, where the climate would count when the purchase fee for the car would be fixed. It's quite unethical, because the Progress Party was for the fee conversion that they are now complaining about here. It was a collusion, and the Progress Party continues to vote for the charging system where the climate is to be emphasised in the purchase fees for the car today. Nor is it the case that in 2006 the conversion of taxes could take the entire debt for increased diesel car sales. Numbers from the Road Traffic Information Council showed that among new cars, the number of diesel cars increased from 9 pst. in 2000 to close to 50 p.p. in 2006. So much of the increase in the diesel car sales occurred before the fee conversion and with the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, while she terminated the state budget agreement with the Right-Registration. I don't like the Advance Party and Solvik-Olsen for their responsibility for the snow falling last year, but I hold Solvik-Olsen and the government responsible for not doing everything they can now when they have the power. Instead of working for clean and safe air, Solvik-Olsen trained important proposals that could secure clean and safe air when he had the power and responsibility to secure clean and safe air in our capital, among other things, where there are many people who cannot be outdoors in winter for periods. But we're doing something about it, so there's reason to rejoice today. I just wanted to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1735	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1751	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1760	The road between Arna and Voss is an important trajectory for both rail and road traffic between Bergen and Oslo as well as internally in Hordaland. The Arna–Voss road section on the E16 is subject to an accident. There have been many fatal accidents and major injuries. This part of E16 has some poor standards and a large and growing traffic. Many of the 32 tunnels are old, and the decay is big. The design of the line is based on the old Vosebane, resulting in very low speed limits and low capacity. Side-burnt terrain and high cuttings give rise to a high risk of slipping and rock jumping, and changes in rainfall rates and intensity increase these problems both on the road and on the track. The Committee has been clear and reminded that there have been many large breeds on the route that have hit both road and rail traffic, and in fact it has perhaps been a good thing that there has not been any human life in relation to the races that have been. As part of being the case rapporteur, I took an inspection and looked on the way. I have not been to that part of the distance before, so I drove by car from Bergen to Voss. I have to say, there are many challenges to this road section. It's steep side terrain, it's obviously rascal, and I see that there's a very need to do something about the road both in the short and long term. But what will help is a new trajectory, because then you have the opportunity to solve the challenges that are. I've traveled the Bergensbanen once before, but it's been a long time. It's the same challenge there, and we want to get the map down to Bergen from Oslo, or from Oslo to Bergen, and this is an important part of such a concept. We're concerned about getting the whole plan planned. One of the messages I got from the meeting with local people on my trip was: Make sure that the planning becomes complete, that it doesn't stop at the first point that is up until, but think completely planning on. I think it's a little important to bring it with me and bring it into the debate in Stortinget, and that we follow it up. It has made it possible for the Centre Party and the Workers' Party to present a proposal in the case: ‘In line with the leaders of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, the Government is asked to facilitate more coherent planning and development of major road and rail projects and to continue the work of the ‘Voseban Joint Project and E16 Voss–Bergen’ without delay.’ The committee has finished its work, and there is a minority proposal I referred to. The Committee's recommendation to annex the proposal protocol is unanimous, but after this, the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have launched their solution for the project. It's something that the committee and the parties have not seen in its entirety. We have only seen it as a news item, and the news item has also focused on the fact that it will take much longer than what you saw when I met both local rapporteurs and business representatives. This is a matter we must clearly work on further. It is an important part of our infrastructure and an important part of linking Western and Eastern countries. No matter what you choose as a new major trajectory, this will be important. With this, I recommend the Committee's position and address the proposal of a minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1780	The representative of Shelmo Nordås then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1785	In the letter of assignment from the Ministry of Transport of the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency, the order was as follows: Start planning a new road and a path between Arna and Stanghelle, with the aim of starting in 2021. Those who have put forward the proposal for a representative are in favour of a new letter of assignment, an additional order for the entire line between Arna and Voss. The reason for this is a desire to complete the road and path as quickly as possible and to ensure continuous planning and construction. The anxiety of us and all the users of E16 and Vosebanen has not been smaller in the last few years. The number of breeds and the number of large breeds has increased, and the most disturbing is that the race rate is the same for the entire distance between Arna and Voss, not just on the distance from Arna to Stanghelle. The Government, and in particular the Minister for Transport, has the flag that with him at the rudder he should increase the speed of implementation of the transport project. There should be a shorter period between project decisions and implementation. Especially on the planning page, a lot of time should be taken. Yes, it has been expressed as a goal of halving the planning time. The question that arises is whether this was talk and promise that did not happen, or talk and promise without political will behind it. The first sign that this was the case was given to us when one of the letters of assignment wrote that one should not plan further than to Stanghelle, and that one should come back to what was to happen on the rest of the stretch. The final test of this was given to us last week. Then part of the coming NTP was presented at the Arna station, with Prime Minister Erna Solberg at the head. Together with the leaderboards from the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in Hordaland, she could tell that the joint project with the path and the path from Arna to Stanghelle in the upcoming NTP would be built in the second part of the plan, from 2024 onwards. And the remainder of Stanghelle–Voss wasn't even included in the 12-year plan. The start of the last part of the new NTP is later than what the Minister of Transport himself has mentioned as late. I quote from the minister's own Facebook page: «We are running the E16 Arna-Voss. Now construction plans are being made, the road needs to get better. We cannot wait until after 2023 to get started, as the red-green parts planned." The Stoltenberg II government did not plan to wait until after 2023 to start this work. The starting point for the planning was the Stoltenberg Government by launching the KVU work in June 2012 – a KVU that would see the path and the road in context, and then on the entire Arna–Voss section. In addition, some acute protective work has been undertaken, which has been shown to produce positive effects. So if you want to join NTP, you first have to do a concept selection operation, that is, a KVU, on projects that have such a high cost. Therefore, this project was not planned to be included in the current NTP. And from the Council of State this KVU on April 1, 2015, it took 20 months for him to conclude that the concept of K5 would be used as a basis for further work. Last June, when we presented this proposal for a representative, to ask the trade unions for an analysis of whether it would be possible to force the realisation of a new route between Arna and Voss, it was in the hope that such an analysis could come soon, and thus provide a better basis for decision in the context of the management of a new national transport plan. Now that we have the proposal to deal with the Stortinget, parts of the plan proposal for the government and the cooperation parties have already been presented, and the remaining section of our proposal asking us to be analysed is not within the 12 years for which the NTP should apply. It is sad, and one might say that this debate is too late, and there is certainly a lot to suggest that our proposal is not accepted. Nevertheless, this challenge is not going to disappear by itself, and we in the Labour Party will follow it up in the forthcoming management of the National Transport Plan – if we ever get the Stortinget proposal together.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1811	E16 is important for the whole of Hordaland. It is a major shipping wound for connection to both the Voss and Hardanger regions, but also for several of the East-West trasés. I don't have a number of debates in the municipality, the county, the county and the big business I can remember about the E16, but this is actually the most positive, because closer to a solution, we have, after all, never been. It is unlikely that many years have passed since this road was new, but the climate and the pacer have changed dramatically. At that time, what was seen as a big investment was done, which made a much better way to Voss. It is easy to be a follow-up clock, but today we see clearly that the choice of design and rag could and should have been different. Although the new road had many positive sides, E16 is today becoming a road that arouses bad feelings in many of us. The way of death he has been baptized. And when you've experienced race or losing a friend, it's actually going to be a strain on the road. In recent years, traffic growth has been exemplary on the Norwegian road. Technology and development could be on our side to address the challenges in the long term, but in the short term, unfortunately, the optimal quick fix solution does not exist. In this case, I don't think anyone is inclined to make himself tall and dark. The expectations have been great – and I fully understand that – with a desire to start in 2021 and that the whole road would enter the coming NTP. However, the starting point was, in fact, a national transport plan for 2014–2023, where neither money was put in, said something about the priority or desired maintenance of the E16. The stretch was, as Rommetvet referred to, distributed. Throughout this period, the government has prioritised immediate action against race and, in fact, more surveillance through ITS to alert on this route. Following KVU and KS1, the government in December 2015 set out a strategy for the future development of the Voseban and E16. New E16 is a comprehensive and complex facility – either the party is called the Workers' Party, Right or the Progress Party. The Government and the Cooperation Party propose to prioritize 15 billion. kr the next 12 years to rust up the road and path between Arna and Stanghelle. The boot will be in 2024. It is later than many have wanted, but the challenge is that the project has changed due to necessary adaptations and extensions, which has meant that the total cost today is much higher than what you first believed. For 15 B.C.E. We could actually get to Voss and the path to Stanghelle by 2029 with original cost estimates. Now, unfortunately, it's not going to work. And this image is actually equal to all of us -- this challenge is equal to all of us. What is now important is to keep full pressure on both planning and not least looking for cost savings, so that we can get the project further ahead in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1834	The Arna–Voss route is an important trajectory for rail and road traffic between Bergen and Oslo and also for traffic within Hordaland. At the same time, we know that this route today is marked by many serious accidents, especially meeting accidents, and that repairs are absolutely necessary. Also on the line, which is based on the old Vossebane, there is a danger of slipping and rock jumping. The old route leads to low speed and low capacity on the lines. The road safety, travel time and capacity conditions of the Arna-Voss route are not good enough in the context of current requirements and expectations. With this as a rear carpet, it is absolutely necessary to make improvements to the distance, both on the road and on the track. We've known this for a long time, but nevertheless the red-greens didn't let in any concrete plans to repair the road section of the current NTP. The Progress Party, the Right and the Cooperation Parties Christian People's Party and the Left have greater ambitions than that and prove it in the context of the NTP for 2018-2029. The Progress Party, the Right and the Cooperation Parties have already agreed that the Arna-Stanghelle route will enter the NTP as the first stage of development, on which concept 5 is taken into account. It is a comprehensive solution for road and track with common planning and development. It has been assumed that the E16 Stanghelle-Arna can be planned as a State plan and that this can be assessed by going straight at state regulatory level without a previous municipal plan. I agree with the proposers that the route must be given priority, and that is exactly what the governmental parties and the cooperation parties are now proposing. Although the red-green government did not provide funds to repair this road section in the current NTP, this is now being done in the new one. In the trade unions' proposal for a new national transport plan, Parliament proposed a total of 13.1 billion. kr for the realization of the route, but in the agreement between the Advance Party, the Right and the Cooperation Parties Christian People's Party and the Left, it is raised to nearly 15 billion. kr in State resources for the improvement of the route. This will bring significant travel time gains and not least a much safer journey for both train commuters and drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1845	On Wednesday last week, Prime Minister Erna Solberg was in Arna to present the National Transport Plan. It was a sad affair. New road and train service to Voss were remitted to the second period of the national transport plan. We are now at risk of having to wait 17 years for a racial road between Bergen and Voss. It is sad that Prime Minister Erna Solberg does not listen to the professional advice to launch Arna–Stanghelle no. That the Prime Minister chooses this way of greeting home is not possible to understand. It's a little bit of a traffic pressure game. Unfortunately, the government's leaks indicate that the priority refusals to Hordaland politicians have had the negative consequences SV has feared. The majority have not managed to prioritize between the billion-dollar Hordfast, safe, racist E16 and an entirely necessary railway investment on Bergensbanen. As a result, the most important environmental and road safety transport projects are being pushed out in time. SV is ready to say that E16 is the most important road project for Hordaland now. There should be more parties involved in this. I take up SV's proposal in the following cases: ‘The government is asked to continue the work of the ‘Vosseban Joint Project and E16 Voss–Bergen’ without delay’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1859	The representative of Ingunn Gjerstad has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1864	The stretch we're discussing is, as many people have already been involved, very upset. And there's been a lot of accidents on the road. Several large breeds have hit both road and rail traffic. This is clearly a heavy load for all those who travel in the area. Not least, it is frustrating for everyone living in the area who uses the road and the railway every day. It is therefore important that the project of building safer and faster road and rail links between Bergen and Voss be prioritised. And that's exactly what's being done right now. It is now known that the government and the cooperation parties are prioritizing 15 billion. kr the next 12 years to rust up the road and path between Arna and Stanghelle. That's good, because it's necessary. This is a major and important priority of the cooperation parties. We know that many people would want the expansion to go even faster, but we have to remember that this project has become much more expensive than initially assumed. In one year the cost of road and track has increased by 4 billion. kr on the way and 1 billion. kr on the railway. The truth is that the cooperation parties are now doing more for Arna–Voss than anyone else has done before us. I hear the red-greens are not satisfied. But what did the red-greens do with this project in their period? – Not one penny for the project in the national transport plan. They finally launched an investigation, but not one in the NTP. This is the truth. Today's majority actually prioritize funds for this stretch for the next few years, as opposed to what the red-greens did when they created their NTP. So it's clear that I understand those who want an additional priority. I understand the frustration many feel when they experience race and uncertainty. I understand that many people think it takes time, a little too long. I fully agree that we need to get a new trajectory in place. Therefore, I hope that planning will go quickly, that we can look at cost savings without going beyond the quality of the project, so that we can get the project moving faster. Anyway, it'll take some time. It's a complex and comprehensive project, but we've done this heavily in relation to what the red-greens did in their time. I think it is good that the project is being carried out as a joint project with rail and road, with the State Road Administration as coordinator in cooperation with Bane NOR. This is the grip that I think it's important to take advantage of, even when we're planning the way forward. This route can now be prioritised at a high planning rate. And then we're going to remember that no matter how fast you plan, it takes several years for new roads and tracks to be finished. That is why I am pleased that, together with the government, we are giving immediate priority to action on this route, in order to ensure safer travel in the short term as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1880	It shall be safe to drive on the road in Norway; it shall be safe to travel by rail. It has been one of the main priorities of both the government and the civil majority when we have negotiated good budgetary settlements for four consecutive years – budgetary settlements that ensure that more road and rail are built now than ever before, budget settlements that ensure that we maintain the infrastructure we already have, rather than letting it fall due. It has also revealed that we have record low numbers in terms of accidents and the number of road fatalities. I think everyone who knows someone who has died in traffic knows how it affects and intervenes in people's everyday lives, how the day will never be the same when the chair stands empty day after day. This has also been one of the driving forces behind when the bourgeois majority has looked at the Arna–Voss route, looking at the need to make improvements – not because the information is suddenly new, that this is a road-hazardous stretch that is raging, but because we actually want to do something about it. That's why we've been in opposition for eight years and we were annoyed that the problems existed, but the measures were very limited, even beyond zero. It is very good that the Stoltenberg government at the end of its eight years found out that they were going to start a work, a work that should have been started much earlier because this is a difficult place to build roads and railways. We have just been through a review with the Road Administration planners. They say that if we were to follow the normal rules for road construction with curve and the like, it wouldn't be possible to build this road in the area. So challenging is it if you're going to get out of the open air sometimes, so that people can drive off the road to get to the dents. This is some of what you have also seen on the cost side. With the appropriations made available by the government and the Left and Christian People's Party in the National Transport Plan, we could – with the original plan – have completed the road from Arna to Voss in 2029, and we could ensure that the railway had been repaired from Arna to Stanghelle. But then we see a cost increase that has been formidable, precisely because one has seen many of the challenges that arise when one is going to build a highway in the mountains. This is part of the challenge, which the whole Storting must also address. Those who should at least try to play high and dark here are those who have been sitting for eight years without lifting a finger for this distance. I think it's rather petty when some people are trying to drag that debate now and give the impression that it's not about will. Yes, that will is truly in place. By granting – or proposing to grant – around 15 billion. kr, it's 15 billion. kr more. Today's majority should be the ones who continue to do this, if you compare to those who didn't find a crown to do anything about it. This is a very important distance. There are a lot of cars running there every day, both local traffic and as part of a national axis. That's why this has been important to us. But even we're not able to create costs that are lower than those that were originally, but we're going to work for it. That's why we sit down with the plans, to see what we can do about changes that allow this way to get into place faster than what we're sketching today. When we have entered 2024 as a starting date, it is simply because we have to be realistic in what we present to the Stortinget. We have to make sure that the money you are going to spend can also be traded by road and rail. I had the goal that we should be able to do this much faster, and that was the basis for the KVU work that was done, that was the basis for when one looked at the work that was in the preparation of the national transport plan, but that is not the basis for the up-to-date information we get. That is why I hope that Stortinget will stick his finger in the ground in this area and make sure that we work together to find a solution that will enable us to solve this. I don't want to sit and know that for eight years in opposition I didn't get anything – and then a make political circus of this when we actually have the opportunity to do it. I understand that it is a desire to surpass each other, but we still have to deal with the realities. And the fact is, today's government is proposing a lot of money for this route. And to those who compare with Hordfast, they suggest more government funds for this than the state suggests to Hordfast. But Hordaland has also been clear that there were many challenges they needed to solve after eight red-green years. That's why it's also important that a lot of places happen. But we have to make sure that we put the spade in the ground on something that we know can be done, where there are construction drawings that work, to just start and then have to stop because it turns out that the project was not thought out, is at least the worst way to try to solve the challenges. A lot of racial protection has been done along the way to ensure that this road works, a lot of road safety measures have been taken along the way, and fortunately we see the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1904	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1910	When the Council of State last week was at Oslo S to present the railway effort in the upcoming NTP, he said, "We have a very professionally good basis for the order in which we do things. The professional basis for the order in which things are to be done is to be found in the transport modes’ basic document for the national transport plan 2018-2029, at least as far as we know. This document characterises the Arna-Voss joint project as a so-called ‘bonded project’, and recommends the start of the work during the first six-year period of the plan, both in what is referred to as a high framework and in what is referred to as a medium-sized framework. What good professional basis does the State Council now have for this project to be pushed out to the other six-year period, when one has also gone on a rather high frame? And is the Council satisfied that the tunnel directive with its arrangements here is being met 15 years after the deadline, which is 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1919	Here you can enter two themes. One is professional advice. Yes, they have chosen this government to follow very, very much. That's why we're also switching to some projects, just to get the value of rail investments in Eastern Europe before what we would get with the red-green government. I think the train commuters should be happy about that. Similarly, I now used a lot of my post to explain that the figures given in the basic document, from the Vegvessen, for example, on how much the road to Arna is going to cost, are different today. They've increased by 4 billion. kr of less than one year. I can repeat it: 4 billion. kr more costs just the first parcel of this distance. There are also professional numbers that are different from those that we had just a year ago. That's when, as politicians, we have to go in and make sure that this project is carried out in the most effective way possible, and that we try to identify opportunities to cut those costs again, so that we actually get to Voss, instead of stopping at Stanghelle. But compared to the previous government, it's now 15 billion. NOK for us to continue this project, while it was zero under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1927	We get this in fractions, in pieces, and in parts -- there's not a plan presented. It's very hard to stick to. You have to understand that we're asking, what are the professional reasons? So let's hear a sum now. In the letter of reply from the Council of State to the Committee, he said that the first stage of development should cover the Stanghelle-Arna sections, on which the concept of K5 should be based. On the remaining section, Voss–Stanghelle, he says that in the longer term, the concept of K5 can be realised on this section as well, but that the Ministry of Transport here is open for other solutions to be considered. What other solutions does the Council of State think might be relevant on the Stanghelle route and on the Voss route?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1934	In my main post, I pointed to the exact same information I gave in the line chord shift. But when I'm met with a pre-written question, it's no wonder that a repeater of things I've already informed about. The representative would like to groan, but it is possible to see machine-written characters – when one sees them. In what's going to happen from Stanghelle to Voss, we're still going to base K5. But the point is that when you're going to dig so many kilometers – yes many miles – with a tunnel, it's well possible that you get knowledge of both mountains and other things that will allow you to choose even better solutions within you to take the next step. That's what we're opening up for. Instead of allowing the entire route to have a given project implementation, we will learn from them to implement the next route even better – hopefully faster and cheaper. I want this in place as soon as possible, but we also need to make sure that we can actually afford to implement it fully. That's what we're adding up to in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1943	After hearing the last answer, I would like to ask myself: do we now have the security to plan the route from Stanghelle to Voss, which you would probably be interested in when we visited Voss? You say you have a goal, but does that mean you stop planning when you get to Stanghelle, and you don't plan the rest of the way to Voss?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1948	The government has communicated that we should correct the distance from Arna and all the way to Voss. We're going to do it in two steps, so one can get started and put the spade in the ground. One begins with the route Arna–Stanghelle. Then one at the same time has to make experience of it as a meeting builds Arna–Stanghelle, so that one can then continuously work on to Voss. So it's going to be one big project, but you have to learn along the way to get as much money back and make sure that one picks the best possible route, that one finds the best way to handle the small openings on which one has open air – where one can have good off- and on-road areas, where one can build stations and the like. I think this is a stretch that needs to be fixed. I can't sit and think like one did in eight red-green years, that here's the little money that solves the problems. It doesn't solve the problems. There's a lot of intervention that needs to be put in place, a lot of money. So we've started prioritizing them. At the same time, we have to deal with the fact that the costs have gone up a lot, and that is the solutions we have to find. This is what I thought we're going to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1958	In the speeches so far in the debate, we have received a wide range of references to the forthcoming national transport plan and the priorities and assessments made there. As far as I'm aware, the national transport plan is not dealt with by the King of State Council, so I wonder where the representatives have this information from. It is also worrying that from 2009 onwards, both the parties of the President and the Council of State were very clear that it is important that when the Storting should deal with a case, the same information should be available. The councils themselves were inside of it in their posts. When he invites the Storting to a debate on how to solve the challenge that we agree on is serious for those who are affected by it, it is demanding when you do not have the insight into the assessments and the basis of the case that are there. Does the government think this is a good way to deal with Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1963	It is a strange question to get from the Workers' Party, which you can read in the press from March to April 2013. They traveled around the country before the Stortinget was informed about the content of the national transport plan, and told me what was there. There's a good reason why today's majority can go out and tell us what we've agreed on, because we've negotiated what's in the national transport plan. This has given me leadership to ensure that we have a majority and have cooperated well. The previous government had a majority without having to deal with the Storting, but nevertheless chose to travel around and tell what they had agreed within the government. There's some difference there. I am trying to be involved here and contribute to the fact that there is information in the matter, so that when there is a proposal from some opposition parties to repair a stretch, you get the most up-to-date information possible. However, before the decision is taken by the Storting, the national transport plan will have been for treatment — with a longer duration of treatment than the chance of the Stortinge during the previous government’s treatment of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1968	Does the government think this is a good way to deal with the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1973	I think we behave much more neatly and properly to Stortinget than we experienced with the previous government. I remind you again that here the Working Party sets one standard for itself and requires a completely different standard of everyone else. As far as I remember, the Workers' Party had even press conferences while other parties had their national meetings, where they leaked from future issues with which the government was to work – not because it was necessary, not because it was urgent, but because they were to compete around, for example. the meeting of the State of the Right Party. I think that's much more inexorable. What we are doing is informing about the consensus that has been reached through negotiations between four civil parties to ensure that a good transport policy is implemented. In this case, one has found an agreement that means that one should grant almost 15 billion. kr to repair a stretch that has been known for many decades to be at risk, but which the Workers' Party itself has never chosen to prioritise in its national transport plans, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1979	Governments are wrong. He's not informing the Storting. He holds press conferences, he leaves no writing, he presents breaches and not a whole. This is a form of work that makes it impossible to keep up and participate in the public debate. That is to the extent the privilege of the government. I register that the Council of State does not want to say that this is OK. He is concerned about what standards the Workers' Party has set. That is quite right. The party of progress has clearly changed its view of this from when they themselves were in opposition, until they have now come into position and let the scale be different. The government obviously thinks this is okay, as I understand the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1984	I see this as an opinion and not a question. I just remind you again that it is not the national transport plan we have up to debate now. Before the Storting will debate and adopt it, they will have better time to deal with it than the Stortinget received the previous time, when the party of Sivertsen presented the NTP. If you're busy with the formalities here, this government has nothing to be ashamed of compared to what the previous government did. I remember that it's just going in and looking. The current Prime Minister Stoltenberg, along with three other party members from the Red-Green parties, took a train trip and told them what to do with the NTP and the railway. They did not give information to Stortinget, but to the press in a train set. It's not uncommon for politicians to also tell outside what they're doing. What's different this time is that there are not internal government negotiations we're telling from, but what the four bourgeois parties agree that the government should base when we present the national transport plan. There we see a more offensive bet than the Workers' Party ever managed, and I am madly proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1989	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e1996	I was a little uncertain instead, whether it was NTP we were dealing with, or whether it was a proposal from four Labour Party politicians from Hordaland, who wanted to support a project that their government didn't have a single penny, and they put seven years in government before they started a KVU. I hope it's still E16 and Vosebanen we're discussing. It's a very important project for everyone who lives in Hordaland, who travels on this road, who is afraid of race, and who lives by a road that is not at all good enough. They are grateful that we now finally have a government that will bet on this road, which has had full pressure on distribution, and which also has the cooperation party in place to prioritize the road with almost 15 billion. kr for the next 12 years. And it's not true that the information is not made known. We who follow the case have been able to get to know us through the control plans, through the recordings from the professionals, so there are many information that is known. The debate today is also useful. The representative, Eidsheim, referred to the cost growth, and we have to go into it more closely. If that's true, it's been 4 billion. More expensive in a short time, we need to analyse why this has happened and also assess whether local conditions through regulatory plans have led to higher costs. In that case, we need to talk to local authorities to try to make the project more reasonable. I noticed with pleasure what the council said, that if we manage to bring down the cost, the project may come out more favourably. Since the Labour Party is the people who raise this case, I could think of challenging them as to what they themselves think of this matter. One said instead that someone presented a fraction and not a whole. Does this initiative represent a wholeness from the Workers' Party, so that this road is more important than everyone else, and does it mean that the Workers' Party will give the whole Bergen–Voss priority to its national transport plan? Will he lie in the first half? These are questions that many in Hordaland are asking. Now the impression is that you are very busy in this way, but no one has been able to say clearly that this will give priority to the Labour Party. So I hope that this debate will clarify it, that the Labour Party will answer the question that the Hordals are asking: will they put money into this way for the first six years? They want to install the whole Bergen-Voss, and what will the toll part be? I registered before I got up here, that the county council in Hordaland also has a corresponding debate, where the group leader from the Labour Party, Roald Kvamme, made a big number of that the Progress Party supports a future NTP that has tolls, and he makes it like he's against tolls. Is it so that the Workers' Party has changed its mind about this, and will support an NTP with less tolls, the Progress Party will be very happy about it. I hope that in the course of the debate we will get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2005	The Labour Party is concerned with the security of the population. In the last 17 years, the Arna–Voss route has had 30 fatal accidents, 584 personal injuries and 338 accidents. People travel along this road, and there is the main road between Bergen and Oslo, between the two largest cities, and on this route they travel with their hearts in their throats. It's whether they're taking trains or driving cars. Some have run the route: it's high mountain sides, and there's fjord on the other side. It's really funny that there have been no fatal accidents linked to the races that have been. In addition, Bergensbanen delivers about 70 pst. of the goods to Bergen and also represents an important trajectory in terms of increasing competitiveness in the West. There has been a great deal of concern about why this proposal has not been promoted in the past. Then we must not forget that Hordaland County was run by the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. They had a majority. The representatives of Njåstad and Eidsheim sat together with me in Hordaland County the last two years before I entered the Stortinget, and it was actually the Workers' Party that received a priority of E16. So the story has several sides, and I liked the better angle of incidence of the representative Eidsheim, who said that there is no one here to appear "high and dark" – or high and light. In addition, we get feedback from the trades unions, and they've really worked intensively to get a progression in place that allows us to create a new weather rasé, because we can't spend all the money on repairing the existing road. There's a lot of work done there, but it's not a good use of community funds, so we should be able to get a good solution as soon as possible where we combine rail and road. In addition, a government plan has been used. It was the Workers' Party for, and it's the current government for, so everything is in the way that you can do this effectively. The question is: in terms of the main route between Bergen and Voss — the one most vulnerable in Hordaland in view of accidents, which are increasing steadily, which reduces competitiveness — does not the security of the people of the West mean that Bergen–Voss should be prioritised as part of the first planning period of the coming NTP? At least it surprises me, who is a Bergens politician, and I know how the trade unions work. Actually, the question can go back: what is it that we can get this line going faster?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2017	As a long-standing transport politician in the county, even the chairman of the sample over a number of years, I listened with great interest to the contribution to the case-rapporteur, Mr Nordås. She described very well the problem there today, and I perceived her there until she was reasonably startled by much of what she saw. It only underlines the importance of this installation being able to be realised as soon as possible. And so it's -- if you're going to be a little honest and sober in this -- that in isolation, this path between Arna and Voss is really an acceptable two-field road, with the eyes of the West. I remember the last road that went along Shadow Beach – it was way! I guess it was a good field about. So when this road came in its time, we were actually very proud of it. Since then there have been significant improvements to the tunnels, so that the road as such could actually have worked very well, if it wasn't for what has happened, especially with the climate, which has led to these huge races and the danger associated with it. And that's where we stand today. I am very happy that you have had such a focus on this important way. I am very pleased that one can see that in a slightly more historical perspective there has never been more money allocated to Hordaland, and so far also in the rest of the country, than now. So you've got that idea, to put it this way, you're going to have to fix the railway and the road at the same time. It will be a gigantic project that will have to take a long time both to plan and to realize. And for me, with a certain background of experience, I'd say it's not such a huge accident that you might have to wait a bit longer, if you get a solution as good as the one we're here suggested. I would like to see this project realised as soon as possible. You have to be so honest, because it's in the nature of the matter, but we know that things take time. Like the representative Sivertsen, I haven't seen any NTPs, so I haven't read what it says, but I'm quite happy with the signals that are available. So we also know that NTP is and becomes a big message, which extends over many years, and I want to believe, with the experience that many people have in this room, that maybe things happen along the way that make things change. Once again, it is the annual government budgets that are crucial for what is finally going to happen here. So with that in mind, I'm actually optimistic about the fact that you might realize this facility faster than you might hope or believe in today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2033	Now half of the Hordaland bench has been on the pulpit, and that means that this is an extremely important project in Hordaland. Thanks to the Workers' Party, which has put forward the proposal to ensure coherent planning and development of major road and rail projects and to move forward with the work of the Voseban Joint Project and the E16 Voss–Bergen without delay. I respond to the debate in the committee and to the hoax that is in such an important matter – in the loops, etc. – and I want to say that. Because regardless of who has done what, this thing is important now in Hordaland because people are afraid. That is what I thought Stortinget could show some respect for in the debate here today. What the Council of State responds to in the letter to the Committee, when proposing a coherent planning, is that in the short term, ‘tunnel upgrading and various tailoring measures’ shall be carried out between Voss and Stanghelle. Furthermore, it says: ‘In the longer term, it has been considered that the concept of K5 can be realised on this route as well, but here the Ministry of Transport is open for evaluation of other solutions.’ That's what's important. There is clearly a requirement that the concept of K5 should be fully applicable to Voss, and that one should ensure coherence in planning. Then there's a debate about who's responsible for not having to come anymore. The councils responded in line that he was fantastically proud of what he had done. I don't think I would use such words in this case. Many people have to assume that this road has not been given a higher priority. When the County decided in 2012 to issue a hearing opinion on the National Transport Plan, they adopted the following: ‘E16 has had a strong increase in traffic and has been one of the most accident-prone roads in the county. The Council requests that an assembly of KVUs be launched as soon as possible for the transport corridor between Arna and Voss covering E16 and Voseban.’ It was a unanimous decision. What happened then was that State Councillor Meltveit Kleppa put in place the KVU in 2012. On 1 April 2014, the proposal on K5 came into force. One and a half years before the government concluded with K5, we're here today. But enough about it. What we're asking is what happens with regard to the tunnel directive, because the basic document says that there are 20 tunnels between Arna and Voss that are longer than 500 meters, which come under the tunnel safety regulation. What is the consequence of this government project and the cooperation party being announced now being postponed to after the first NTP period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2056	First of all, a little comment on Ruth Grung: So this isn't a county road project, so meddling in the county priorities and who has run the county, I don't think it's entirely relevant in this context. This is a project I know very well. The KVU that was just mentioned, it was I who took the initiative, from this pulpit. It was followed up by State Councillor Meltveit Kleppa, which is quite correct. I think our government has done a great job on this matter. I think it's hard to find any project at all in history that has had such rapid progress, from plan to show willingness to commit, like this case. I think you should be a little honest and admit it. Let me give you an example. The Workers’ Party’s NTP for 1998–2007 says of the Os route that has been fought for a reasonable period in Hordaland that Svegatjørn–Rådal will be in force in the last part of the 10-year period, i.e. 2002-2007. That did not happen, nor in the next period. No, it was under this government we got started on that project, in 2015 – 18 years later. So I think maybe you should be a little humble before you criticize on the basis you've rigged here today. There's a paradox here: this is one way the red-greens will go down in the long term. In other contexts, it is strongly argued that the so-called Bergen arm, E134, has the best societal benefit of all projects. Yeah, that's possible, that's possible. But it is conditional on all east–west traffic being transferred from E16. The working party has placed the list very high for its own alternative transport plan, which has been notified. It will be very exciting to follow the further development towards the spring treatment of NTP. It remains to be seen whether there will be a follow-up to those promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2070	I see it as some kind of aggravation from the Council of State and others that we have made this proposal at all, and that some of us are also being made as tall and dark – at least it can't be me. But the proposal was submitted in June 2016, so it's like not a Jippo that we've found now. To Helge André Njåstad: Yes, the Labour Party is for tolls, and presumably about the same level as the Progress Party and the Council of State tend to submit proposals. We have doctors around there, but we might be a little bit confused about the layout of it. So ask Helge André Njåstad if this road is more important than anything else in Hordaland. We do not know what else in Hordaland is involved in the proposal for a national transport plan to come! What we have been told about now is, in general – at least of the big things – such as the last six years. We have to see the totality if we're going to consider prioritizing this leads to something else. Let me also say that the Arna–Voss and Arna–Voss roads are important for Hordaland, but there are also two very important national transport corridors. They're clinching in each other, but there's a national transport corridor that matters to the whole country. Therefore, this is not just something that needs to be seen in a Hordaland context. So this has been called Hordfast and E39. It is clear that Hordfast and E39 are also important for Hordaland, but Hordfast and E39 are not least also a national transport corridor. One shall bind the whole of the West together, and that is important for the whole nation. Here it's not just that a county and a county bench have got their way with, and then we're going to say how we're going to prioritize, but we should see the whole thing, and then we're going to come back to it. What we are saying here, as we are making this proposal in June 2016, is that we think this is very important, so we will try to see if we can get this out in the past. Let me just mention also to Halleraker, who had a visit to Ruth Grung and the county council – and he had been on a part, he said – that the county council made a contribution to the national transport plan. Difor has also played a role there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2086	There have been some questions that I would like to comment on. One is the Tunnel Directive. I record that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are almost concerned that the Tunnel Directive will not be complied with until 2019. Let me then remind you that the tunnel directive, which came into force in the mid-2000s, was not particularly funded under the red-green government. In 2012, the allocations for tunnel safety and upgrading were 700 million. kr. In 2013, it was reduced, and in 2014 it was reduced even a little more. Today, the budget is about $2.50. NOK, up from 600 million. kr. Today's government, today's majority have taken tunnel safety very seriously, but there is nothing in the appropriations from the red-green government that indicates that they did the same. Coming today and hanging when they didn't do their job, which meant that one could say that one was eight years late, there's no basis for that. I am pleased that our government and our majority have made sure that we are not as late as the Workers' Party had agreed. Most tunnels will reach their target in 2019. Then there's talk about professionals. I remind you that in the national transport plan that the government is going to present, there is agreement between the four civil parties that we are going to spend more money in the NTP period than the professionals recommended. It's a confirmation of the goal, but because costs have increased as much as they have done, it doesn't mean we're reaching the same deadlines. Economically, we are more than willing to prioritize this, but we have to do a job to get all the way to Voss, and that one does not stop halfway because the money is spent up. I am recording that the Workers' Party says that starting a KVU is almost enough for the road to be built afterwards. There are not many examples of, at least not under the red-green government. I record that in Hordland, the Workers' Party is still working on deciding which trasé they really want for Hordfast, five years after the KVU was submitted. Today's government took the decision in a very short time. One must learn from what one has achieved before. The Labour Party has little to point to there. Today’s majority have prioritised racial protection and immediate action on the Arna–Voss route both on the road and on the railway. There are hundreds of millions of dollars spent on racial protection, which is once again a higher amount than the previous government gave. There is no argument and no number supporting the Workers' Party in that this government has deprived the route, rather the opposite. Finally, it is interesting when the Workers' Party is trying to misplace the situation around tolls. All the proposals today's government has promoted the Stortinget to cut toll levels on different projects, the Workers' Party has voted against. So one here gives the impression that no, one stands for almost the same thing. No, it's actually completely wrong. Today's government wants to reduce the toll, the Workers' Party does not want.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2108	I also notice that the representative Rommetveit said that the Labour Party is too much toll than the Progress Party – in that case extremely little toll, because the Progress Party is against tolls, but sitting in a government and with a large majority that has a different view from us, but we draw them in the right direction. It would be very nice if the Workers' Party could support us both in toll reform and in individual cases where we actually reduce the toll part. Otherwise, I record that my challenge about how the Workers' Party will prioritise Bergen–Voss in its national transport plan was not answered, in any way. It seems almost as if the Labour Party now has the strategy that in the next few months, from the state bench and from local politicians, they will be disappointed, dissatisfied, worried and impatient about all projects in Norway, while a centralist will stick to the phrase 'we'll be waiting and seeing, and we'll be given priority later'. I don't think the voters appreciate the fact that the largest party in Norway, the party that takes the goal of getting into government offices, can't give priority and can't be clear on what a victory is important. It's going to be very interesting to sum up all the concerns. When one is going to put it into a group of priorities, I believe the Labour Party will meet itself at the door in many cases. It's not possible to say that you don't know about the whole thing. In fact, one can stick to the proposals of the trade unions – there is health, with what the trade unions think is important for both the railway and road sections – and make priorities from that point of view. I assume that the Workers' Party has started its NTP process in the fraction, and that they, like us, have been working on this for a long time. When the government produces the NTP, it cannot start the internal processes. I think many in Hordaland are very excited about what the priorities of the Workers' Party will be for Bergen–Voss. I'll give you a chance to answer that. Is it a pleasure to focus on Arna–Stanghelle for the first time, and that one takes Stanghelle–Voss afterwards? Or should a plan Arna-Voss, which one can get the impression through the posts of the case-speaker and the representative of Rommetveit? We need that clarification, all the time one criticises us for not being in the first half, even if we're also impatient to insist. Can a guarantee that it is in the first half when the Labour Party submits the NTP? Or should one take the answer from instead of a not knowing, to be the view of the Labour Party per now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2120	I have a certain understanding that the Hordaland representatives of the Labour Party present the matter to us today, and use rhetoric as if they want to support the project. I might have done the same if I had been in the same situation. I understand that because I believe that they should sincerely want the E16 and the Vossaban to have started before, a wish I of course share. When I say "maybe," it's because I'd probably be in doubt if I had the conscience to be so forward-looking in a matter one over eight years with multiples in reality got zero averages in the own party to do something about. Neither the road, nor the railway, nor all those who have the road as their way, fuels more double communication and promises that are not being fulfilled, but progress and promises that are being made. As I said, I also have a strong desire that the road and the track be realized as early as possible. Today it's 2024. So I promise everyone, both here in the hall and in those homes that depend on the road, whether they have it as their daily professional path or depend on running their kids to and from different things, or there are businessmen who use the road, that I will work the fence of myself: when the project is finally within the national transport plan, it is a milestone that, for me, is an inspiration that 2024 will definitely be the last year the project will be started, and not a sleep cushion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2129	The representative of Magne Rommetvei has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2134	All the toll proposals that the Council of State has put forward and that have also been supported by the Progress Party's representatives in this Chamber have been included, as I think so. The Council of State, and not only the Council of State, but also some others, criticise us for not prioritizing the route in the current transport plan. It's cheap rhetoric. When the current NTP was processed, we did not have an estimate of how much the project would cost. This is also very much in line with how the Council of State itself is preparing its work on the upcoming NTP. From the guidelines of the 2015 Council of State, you can read: ‘For prioritisation during the last eight-year period, the concept selection examination and the related external quality assurance must have been carried out as a general rule [[KVU]] [[KS1]] It was this work we started, at the same time we did a lot of protective work with such space layers in the middle and whitewashed tunnel walls, and we also did something with the shoulders. So we did what could be done. You can't race there, you have to build a new one.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2146	As the rapporteur on the matter, I will be careful to interfere in the Hordaland policy, but we have at least engaged in an entire county bench. That's good! As a northerner, I can say that I am also interested in solving the E16 challenges. As I described, I have just been there and seen that there is a need to do something, yes quite a lot. After hearing the debate, I see that there is an overall Storting that is impatient to solve the challenges that exist between Arna and Voss. It's positive, it's very good for the case. I think the E16 is going to be an important trajectory regardless of future East-West connections. It's important, and it's going to be important. There's a lot of people using it, and there's increasing traffic on it. I assume that the planning of the distance does not stop after the first phase, but that even if you're going to learn from the first phase, you actually bring the planning forward, so that there won't be an unnecessary stay in it. I also assume that there will be both racial protection measures and road safety measures now in the shorter term, because it is clear that 17 years is a long time to have a solution that is today, with the racist strokes that we are talking about here. So we have to do something in the short term as well. We'll see what's suggested gradually on it. We wait in suspense at the national transport level, which comes before Easter. Then we'll have to take the further debates both on the whole of the E16 and the Hordaland and the rest of the country's needs when it's presented. Again: Thank you for the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2161	I would also like to thank you for the debate. I think we're going to get more in depth on this when the national transport plan is discussed. But I think it's a little strange that the Workers' Party here is very persuasive about how dangerous the bourgeois majority is, but even will not express its own position, on the grounds that they do not yet know what the government formally believes, because NTP has not been presented. Let me then remind you that the planning basis has been available for public transparency for over one year. I guess the Workers' Party would – at least the Advance Party would – go into it and start preparing its own alternative NTP, because that's where the facts lie. And then there will be up-to-date numbers on some projects. That means that you can't guarantee what you're presenting before you see the final numbers that are coming. But now when the Workers' Party doesn't want to say whether they want to move it forward or not, but just want to hang on to the government, it's very little constructive. It would have been very good if the Workers' Party could announce the position they have in this matter, so that we can also measure them on their promises, not just on their criticism. It's good that the KVU is available. As a result, the government has been able to make decisions and move on. But I compare with the fact that the Workers' Party in many similar cases was unable to make decisions and move on. I think it's very good when the representative Halleraker tells a little bit more about the story, about how this happened, because for eight years, the red-greens didn't really need to do anything on this route, unfortunately. I say "sorry," because I have also been to it many times. I think it's a two-digit number of times I've been in the Voss and the Arna region, either on the whole distance or piecewise and divided. But before me, the Central Party had the post of Minister of Transport, with former councillor Navarsete, former government councillor Meltvei Kleppa and former councillor Arnstad, without it giving priority to doing this, without one starting an investigation work to get it into the NTP for 2014, for example, which would be natural if one looked at the section that so important as a sudden do in opposition. I think it's a little strange that one didn't learn during a crash, but comes in retrospect. However, let me hope and believe that when we have a national transport plan for discussion here once before the summer of this year, we can jointly find out what is best, so that we can carry out this project. Although I intend to be Minister of Transport for a few more decades, I will not exclude that it will not be so, and then it is important that those who take over the staf stick, implement this on both this route and many other routes that should have better roads and railways for the longest time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2170	Let me start by thanking several of the representatives from the Hordalands bench, who have held – as far as I am able to assess, at least – quite wisely and reflected on the need for this new road. I myself live in a city that had a raspberry driveway, and we were afraid to be shielded by the sea when we drove past. I know how that feeling is, and the concern that the road link disappears. I understand that this is an important matter for many on the Hordalands bench. I have also noted that some of the representatives who do not participate in the Committee have views on the climate of debate that have been raised in the matter. At least I'll reflect a little bit on it, and then I hope more people do it. So to the concerned care of the Workers' Party's work on the National Transport Plan: Yes, we're going to help create a national transport plan, a transport plan for the nation, where we're going to give priority and consider what's going to happen first, what's going to happen last, how we're going to focus one project on another, because there's one thing we're not missing in this country, and that's a transport project. It's a long -- almost endless and exhaustive list of projects that need to be solved, because we're many who live in this country, who have great ambitions on behalf of our community and on behalf of the nation. A prerequisite for doing these kinds of priorities is to have an overview of the whole thing. On repeated occasions in the debate today, the Council of State has pointed out that new figures are coming, new information has come. Yes, then it is quite demanding to do these kinds of priorities when you do not have the overview, when you do not have access to the information. So yes, we'll do our priorities when we have the overview. Many people believe that this matter should have been resolved earlier. Yeah, like many other things in the country, it should have been. We are constantly hearing about road projects and railway projects that it has taken 20, 30 and 40 years to realize, because we have many projects that need to be prioritised. But when the representative Halleraker comes up here and says that this was mentioned in the national transport plan in 1997, and the red-green government didn't do anything about it – well, there were some others who crashed in the period 2001–2005. Nothing was done about it then either, so you might have to be a little careful about what you are going to do. Let me finish where I started: we're going to contribute to the national transport plan, and I'm going to help find together with the government in those areas where we have common interests. It was the invitation the Council of State issued from the pulpit here instead. But the way and the form in which the Council of State chooses to deal with how it issues invitations, when some representatives from Hordaland have promoted a project to see if it is possible to speed up this project and invite it to cooperate, does not mean that we get to the good cooperation that the Council of State wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2185	When the Council of State in its last article addresses criticism of no less than three central government councils, it requires a small response. I asked in my previous post that we should have had a discussion on this matter that was a little more respectful considering what the matter is, and what it means, and not driving political rhetoric about who has done the most in this matter. The truth is that Hordaland did not prioritize this case when they gave their input to NTP. In 2012, they gathered to ask for a KVU. That's what Hordaland was prioritizing. There was no one from the Advance Party in Hordaland who demanded anything more, no one from any other party either. It was a requirement, and that's what the red-green government followed up by starting the KVU project. There have also been other things, with double tracks on the route Bergen-Fløen-Arna station and upgrading there, which I also have to mention. But the point is that the red-green government just did what Hordaland County asked the government to do. When this government got the KVU on the table, it went one and a half years without one being able to gather about a conclusion. I also record that the Council of State did not respond to the consequences of the last postponement for the Tunnel Directive. We heard that there's going to be money and that there's going to be money, but how much extra money will the last release lead to? It's also a question of where you've got the number of exceedances from, 4 billion. kr – when there is no control plan or silage report.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2194	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 11 and 12 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2226	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2235	I would first like to thank everyone in the Cooperation Committee. This is the first 30-year traffic safety message and is well received by many road safety actors. The Government points out in the Communication that the level of road safety in Norway is very good in an international perspective. The long-term trend is positive, and never in modern times has road traffic lost less than in 2015. The Communication points out that a long-term, wide-ranging and professionally-based work among many road safety actors has contributed significantly to this good development. However, still lower accident rates present an increased challenge in finding effective and targeted accident reduction measures. The main device of the main message is coordination at the overall level and cross-sectoral challenges in road safety work. The notification shall identify areas in which improved cross-sectoral coordination can contribute to increased road safety and, on the basis of this, some specific fields of action are recommended. The Government wants the Landfill Communication to contribute to further anchoring and targeting the work on road safety in the sectors concerned and in actors. There are six selected bet areas: anchoring of cross-sectoral road safety work at the overall level making better use of supervisory and control efforts through enhanced cross-border cooperation; more efficient dissemination, easier access and better exploitation of knowledge from accident investigations; Guidelines for recording road traffic accidents and increased exchange of damage and accident data enhanced coordination of R & D efforts; future fields of action in the field of road safety The purpose of the Communication is to provide the Storting with an up-to-date and comprehensive assessment of the overall cross-sectoral cooperation for increased road safety and to identify areas with the potential for further strengthening road safety work through better and more effective coordination. The Government has as its starting point the development and strengthening of cross-sectoral road safety work within existing financial budget frameworks. The Communication makes little concrete detail on individual measures as they should continue to be determined through the work of the National Road Safety Action Plan following guides provided in the national transport plan. The economic and administrative implications of the follow-up to the areas of activity are covered within the current budgetary framework of the departments concerned. Action areas need to be assessed against other priority objectives and areas. The Committee highlights the importance of quality in driving training and the need for good training for foreign drivers, in particular with regard to the special challenges they face on Norwegian roads in winter. Furthermore, the importance of road standards is underlined and work on more road safety must continue. The Committee also points to the important role that new technologies in vehicles will play in the future. New cars have sensors that will help drivers in traffic and could reduce the risk of out-of-trafficking and meeting accidents, which are today the main causes of the number of fatalities and serious injuries. The use of ITS will also be important in information for drivers, but also in order to take out vehicles and drivers presenting a traffic hazard. In this context, the introduction of autonomous vehicles will also contribute to increasing road safety. The right hand side and the Progression Party indicate that the main device of the Storing Message is coordination at the overall level and that detailed action will be taken in other plans such as: National Road Safety Action Plan 2014-2017. We therefore believe that it is unnatural to address individual measures in this context. It is therefore not natural to support any of the specific proposals either. I find it still natural that we may have some comments, and I will come back to that in a later article. The second case we are dealing with is Document 8:106 S for 2015–2016 on a National Traffic Competence Centre. The entire committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, believe that one should come back to this at a later stage. In this context, reference is made to the fact that the Communication proposes a multidisciplinary advice for road safety research. The Council shall have, inter alia: the following mandate: the Council shall identify the challenges requiring specific follow-up and analyse developments in road safety work and contribute to the focus of road safety research on addressing future challenges. The Committee therefore considers that no decision should be taken on the establishment of a national centre now, as we believe that the Council of State will have a great deal to do with advice for further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2286	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the rapporteur for a good cooperation. Despite a large increase in transport needs and in the car park, there has been an outstanding positive trend in the number of fatalities and injuries in road accidents here to land. There is reason to be proud – proud, but not satisfied. 57-year-old Trond Kyrre Green, 25-year-old Ola Flenstad and 80-year-old Anne Jørgine Schürbusdal were 3 of the 135 who lost their lives in traffic in 2016. There are 135 people too many, and that is unfortunately an increase from the previous year. As long as people die in traffic, the work to make our traffic systems safer and safer must never be taken for granted. The zero vision is the image on it. The zero vision is not just for party speeches. It is serious, even fatal, that requires hard work along three tracks: behavioural measures, vehicle measures and infrastructure measures. All these resources must be used to succeed. It has become clear that driving in a drug-affected state is one of the main challenges that needs to be met by several new interventions. A new roadside survey to obtain facts on the table is very long-term, the possibility of identifying several types of drug driving as well. Nevertheless, alcohol is an effective method of removing alcohol-induced drivers from traffic. Work on the introduction of alcohol in vehicles used for the acquisition of passengers for remuneration has taken too long, and there is simply a basis in this room to call for the action and will of the Council of State at this point — and in particular perhaps the last. At the same time, there is also reason to take advantage of the opportunity to commend government batches for the work carried out in the field of control. Although the performance project of coordinating the control activities of heavy goods vehicles is slowing down in time, a lot of good work has been done in this area — a work supported by the Workers' Party. We know that infrastructure measures are important for road safety. Bets on the highways we all agree on. At the same time, the county budgets under this government have become narrower and narrower and the county roads worse and worse. The maintenance run has increased and there is a need for a significant strengthening of the county economy in order to improve the quality and re-establish the maintenance run on the county roads. Traffic safety is at stake. In fact, the safety standard on the highways of Solvik-Olsen's guard is in many places low, and the average risk of being killed or severely damaged per kilometre is about 50 pst. higher on the county roads than on the national roads. I ask myself, in what other area do we allow such a big difference? Not between schools, not between hospitals, nor does the Workers' Party do it between national roads and county roads. 2015 seemed to be the first year when no children under the age of 10 were killed in traffic. But December 15, 2015, it went wrong in the Waksdal in Hordaland. A six-year-old was on his way home from Christmas. He slipped on the ice, fell down a staircase and landed under a trailer which came running past. Unfortunately, 2015 did not become a unique year in road safety for children and young people. In all road safety work, it is particularly important to develop a transport system that takes care of children and young people, whether it is a safe school road, safe transport or appropriate traffic training. Children and young people are not holders of rights in a formal sense. They have no formal ability to address their requirements in transport planning. They also have no financial resources. The younger the kids are, the more dependent they are on us adults caring for their needs – that we do it. It must also be taken seriously by the country's politicians when discussing road safety. Soon we will be presented with the entire National Transport Plan 2018-2029 from the government. That's when the Right Party and the Advance Party are really going to go to the exam and show if they really have the power and the will to get to the road safety work and zero vision. For the Workers' Party, road safety and zero vision will always be a cornerstone. We are proud of the historical development, but we are not yet satisfied. I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind in case No. 11, what we're alone in, and what we're together with others about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2311	Representative Karianne O. Heavy has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2316	We're building a road across the country to connect the country, so companies can transport the goods more efficiently and safely, and thus get lower transport costs, and to create a simpler everyday life for most people. However, in addition to these considerations, road safety considerations are most important. It's important that we do what we can to prevent traffic accidents. Therefore, road development, maintenance and maintenance are among the main and important initiatives of the government. In the context of the treatment of the 2015 State Budget, the Stortinget adopted a request to the government to promote an action plan for increased road safety. The government has provided a thorough monitoring report on road safety work. The issue we are dealing with today is the first comprehensive 30-year communication on road safety. The objective is not, of course, the actual notification of road safety, but what is actually being done to ensure road users. Never in modern times has road traffic lost less than in 2015, although only one damage or one death in traffic is too much. We see that the trend is going the right way. In 1970, efforts were made to reduce road accidents. Annual deaths in road traffic have decreased from 560 in 1970 to an annual average of 153 in the last five years, and by 117 in 2015 to the lowest. Work on reducing road accidents has changed over this government period, with record appropriations on the road. The government parties, together with the cooperation parties, have increased the transport budget by about 50 pst. compared to the previous government period. The road maintenance run is now being reduced for the first time in several decades. The road is now being built more than ever before, and road safety is constantly in focus. Tunnel renewal and tunnel protection were also down-priority during the last government period, while today's bulk numbers have increased appropriations in several budgets. Over the 2017 state budget, it is committed to over 2.5 billion. kr for this purpose. The work on road safety may never be finished, but we must, in any case, put safety in the high-seat. It involves the development of more and safer roads and their maintenance. Traffic safety also means more development of pedestrian and cycle routes to ensure the soft road users. And it's about so much more. It's also about charging tickets and incentives for people to choose a safe and safe car. This means that you cannot punish those who are going to buy a car, but you can premise them to buy a newer, better and safer car for those who are inside it. At least this government is doing well to build and maintain more roads. In addition, we have high expectations of what is delivered in the national transport plan, which is presented before Easter. The main provision of this Communication is the coordination and organisation of road safety work at the overall level, while detailed action will be taken in other plans, such as: National Road Safety Action Plan and National Transport Plan. Since it is unnatural to address detailed measures in this context, the Progress Party will not support any of the proposals for decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2335	For the Christian People's Party, road safety is the most important thing in transport policy. We have to make it possible for people to travel safely. Business life and all those with a job shall be as secure as possible. People to and from work and leisure activities should be able to move safely and safely. This is the job number one for the Christian People's Party when we give priority to transport policy. Traffic safety is both about the physical nature of the road and about good infrastructure in general. It is about safe and modern vehicles, racial protection, new technologies, but also about the development of good attitudes in all those who travel in traffic. Fortunately, the focus on safer and better roads has increased in this period when the Christian People's Party has been part of the majority. Better maintenance and new, safe and safe roads are important in both city and country. But there is also a great need to raise the awareness-raising and traffic-oriented work. We have to do this in addition to all the positive things that happen with physical measures. Here I must say that I had wished for an even more offensive and impatient attitude from the Right and the Advance Party. When it comes to road-oriented measures and the attitude-building work, the will has not always been the same with the blue-blues. Despite all the knowledge we have about how important it is to create good attitudes in traffic, suddenly the enthusiasm of these parties is not as great. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has seen the need to make some obvious improvements. It is particularly important to teach children and young people safe driving behaviour. In the coming years there will be strong growth in traffic. Training in traffic awareness and the ability to travel in traffic is very important and will become more and more important in the future. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need to strengthen the awareness-raising and preventive work on road safety. Good traffic attitudes are emerging early, and increased emphasis is needed on traffic skills both in school and not least in kindergarten. The message provided by the government, which we are now dealing with here, has some shortcomings when it comes to this very thing. To a large extent, the government sees itself blind to physical action. Traffic-related measures take place in the background of the blue-blue. But road safety is so important for the Christian People's Party that we have to use all relevant instruments. Traffic-oriented measures are an important part of this. We have to do what we know works. There might be an increased use of distance-ATK, as we know, which makes accidents go down. There may be several roadside checks or increased use of alcolocks. And in the case of alcohol locks, I have to say it's tending to see that the government has spent so long on that matter. In fact, the directive on alcohol locks in buses and minibuses was sent to the hearing yesterday, and we are pleased about that. It's probably not a random time all the time the government seems to have a decision against it here in the Chamber today. However, I also expect a binding timetable for phase-in of alcohol locks to be set in other vehicles where passenger transport is provided for remuneration, for example. in taxis, as decided by the Storting. For the Christian People's Party, there is a need for an even stronger pressure on road safety work beyond what is contained in this Communication. That is why we are promoting several proposals that we hope to have a majority here today. Alcohol is involved, the road safety work is strengthened, traffic knowledge and awareness-raising on road safety is involved in the renewal of the knowledge-based promise, and it is not least about increasing the competence of driving skills in kindergarten and school. This I hope the majority can join! Otherwise I can warn that the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left, on the revision of the STRAKS register. Better accident and damage data are needed in road traffic. Today, we have a good overview of developments in the case of fatalities and severe injuries, but in the case of other injuries, there is great darkness. The government must therefore now speed up efforts to better facilitate the exchange of data between the police, the State Road Service and the Health Service. Not least, this is important knowledge when the national objective is that more people should be able to ride and go to and from school and work. Soft road users have a high accident risk. Better data will increase awareness of where and why road accidents occur, and the damage and extent of damage to road users. A good decision-making basis allows us to work even more effectively against the zero vision. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's good review and take up proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2369	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2375	Traffic safety is incredibly important. In the previous case we discussed a road where there are many accidents, and there are too many affected by it. I think most of us know someone who has been in a car accident, who has been hurt – little or much – or knows someone or knows about someone who has died in an accident. It's tragic. Having said that, I see that road safety work goes on in a positive direction. All the parties in Stortinget have their share of the credit for it. That's good, but we won't be done with this kind of work. As the rapporteur pointed out, there are many measures that need to be taken. The representative of Gruvan also pointed out that it is closely linked – both to physical action on the road and to attitudes in traffic. That is why one must continue to work with attitude-building and road-oriented work. Control is important. The Council of State and the Government must be commended for the work done on it. It has a positive effect. However, I believe that – as others have pointed out – both distance-ATK and some other measures would have liked to have been more exploited. Universal design is incredibly important to consider also in road safety. It's not all of them that come out just as easily, for different reasons. Then you have to think about universal solutions, which make it safe for them to go on the road as well. The Centre and I are involved in coordination between the different R & D actors and the road safety work. I think it's doing a lot of good work, but I'm sure there may be a need to coordinate better to find even better solutions in this area. Russ-affected driving is a huge challenge, in addition to speed and physical things on the road body itself. I think, like more people, that getting alcoholics in place is one of the important things we can do. It's been obvious to the Storting, and we have to find a good way to phase it in -- start where it's mostly coming, and then escalate gradually, because we have to avoid so many running in some kind of drug-induced state. I think maybe the county roads are what we have to work a lot with right now. As the representative Tung spoke about, what one sees in the accidents – it's both meeting accidents and outings – is that there's a need to put an extra ‘driving’ on making them more roadworthy, so that we don't get so many accidents on those sections where we've seen a little negative development. Finally, of course, the centre party is voting for the proposals in the vote that we ourselves are behind, but we are also going to support the proposals No. 1–4, which has been put forward today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2394	I am very pleased that we have received a big message about road safety. The current report addresses the coordination and organisation of road safety work. This is important for further work on bringing down accident statistics. We've set an ambitious goal with the zero vision, and the work to achieve this is systematic and good. Norway has experienced a steady decline in the number of hard injuries and deaths. The measures we are implementing, in addition to the safety of vehicles, contribute well to this. But we're not on target. Too many people still die on the roads in Norway, and more people are seriously injured. In the last five years, we have on average lost 146 people in traffic here in the country. About 690 people are seriously injured in traffic every year. There are many great sufferings, both for the affected and for relatives. Traffic accidents cost society enormously every year, but the greatest cost, of course, is borne by those affected. That is why we need to continue to strengthen traffic-oriented road safety work, and we need to strengthen the competence of traffic know-how and road safety in kindergarten and school. We must facilitate road development, so that roads are as forgiving as possible if the accident should first be out. Soft road users are exposed. There was an increase in the number of severely injured and killed pedestrians and cyclists in 2016. It is necessary to invest in cycling, walking and cycling paths and other means of mitigating the conflicts which may arise between the various modes of traffic. Russ is unfortunately often part of the accident picture, and many of those who get badly damaged do not use seat belts. Technology can help to reduce accidents at the heart of these factors. Measures like alcohol and seat belt sensor are already in place, and we can be even better at using the technology available on the market. As mentioned above, there are already several points of light when looking at accident statistics in Norway today. Fewer children die in traffic. While children were previously unsecured in the back seat, the seat belt and children's chair have now become the norm. Both more knowledge, lower speed, better roads, safer cars and better coordination of road safety work produce results. But, as I said, we still have a long way to go. The left is correct with regard to the proposals in the vote, with the exception of one proposal. That is proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox There we stand by an incurrency error, we do not agree with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2411	For the first time in 30 years, the government is promoting a roll-out message that is exclusively about road safety. It gives the Storting an opportunity to get an overview of both the historical developments, which have been formidable, and what the status is now. In addition, many arrows are drawn in the future for how you think you should work. This is not a big message that is being promoted because no one has thought about it before. It is a work that has been going on for many decades, and the big message is also clearly drawing a picture of it. It is a work that has evolved over time, where experience, knowledge, enthusiasm and initiative-rich people together have made one have good people at public authorities, at different offices, but also in many charities, private organizations, in the school community, etc., which together make it safer to travel in the country. This is primarily a groceries message to show you how to organize. I hear a number of specific measures being called for. It's not because they don't exist that they're not here, but because it's another part of the policy area. An action plan based on the previous national transport plan exists. It shall apply for these four years. Then there will be a new action plan in which a very specific approach will be taken to all the concrete instruments and measures, both in terms of road users themselves, in terms of driver training, in terms of the way the health care system operates, etc., to ensure that one avoids accidents, and that one, in case of accidents, has a good system to deal with them. That is why I think it is right when many have called for us to discuss coordination and organisation here and let the actions come at a later stage, when it is time to update the action plan again. However, it is important to ensure optimal coordination of efforts because there are so many different actors who have one or more bones in this system. Making sure that everyone knows what the various actors contribute, how to cooperate, where the responsibility lies, coordination tasks etc. have been an important part of this job. We see that it is described in a number of places that different agencies now coordinate better than they did before, where there are cooperation agreements in place, and elsewhere where cooperation has worked for many decades and one continues to do so. So giving the impression that the transport modes are not well coordinated, as the Workers' Party does so far, I think it is wrong. Better digital tools, etc. also facilitates the effective functioning of this cooperation. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that joins the six selected areas of action highlighted by the government in the Communication, and that we will be leading the future NTP for the further road safety policy and not least for which concrete actions should be highlighted in the Action Plan that comes next. Some things are being called for in the debate. For example, one points to the states. Then it is worth reminding the Workers' Party that the local economy is now actually the best in several decades, although the Workers' Party still believes that everything has become worse during today's government than it was under the previous government. It's time to check the world around it. Municipal Report now reports that county and municipality budgets are the best in many decades. Under the Workers' Party, both national roads and county roads passed away. By a civil majority, the highways no longer fall, but not all states have reversed the trend. Then my recommendation is to contact their own country rapporteurs from the Workers' Party to get the road ahead of other things. Control activities have increased sharply during the current civil majority, because one has prioritised money for it. I am pleased that there is now general, broad support in this room for that kind of priority. Children in traffic are very important, and in the national transport plan that we are now working on, it will be a separate part that is the transport plan of a child, well assisted by initiatives of the Christian People's Party and the Left. The working party calls for an alcohol lock. The case was sent to the hearing yesterday, not because of today's debate, but because the Directorate of Roads thought it was the right time – they had finished. I can agree that in isolation that process has taken a long time. What you have to bear in mind after criticising is that a proposal is now being sent out to the hearing, which is both a legislative proposal and where the regulatory work has been done. This means that when this passes, it can quickly come into force – unlike in some other legal cases where the law is first made, and then regulations are made, which means many months or years of extra work. Now this gets faster, and that's the end result that counts, not how long the individual part of the process has taken. Here we have coordinated several things. But all in all: thanks for constructive input and good treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2431	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2437	Now the Council of State has had its usual opportunity to tell us that everything was so much worse when the Workers' Party put in government, and how much better everything has become now. Maybe it's possible for once to look forward. In fact, the Road Service is now reporting that the aftermath on the county roads is increasing by between 1.5 and 2 billion. kr per year, and that the statistical probability of being seriously damaged or killed in an accident per kilometer of roadside is 50 pst. higher than national road. So the question is, does the Council of State think there is an acceptable difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2444	Of course not. But since it's the Workers' Party that takes up the subject and gives the impression that everything is so awfully cruel, I think it's right to correct and put things in a historical perspective, even if the Workers' Party doesn't like it. And that's when I think it's worth reminding me that the roads also expired when the Workers' Party crashed the country. The highways were worse at the end of the year than at the beginning of the year. The working party doesn't like to hear it, but it's good to remember it. Now that we've got that difference, it's not because things have gotten worse, but because the highways have become so much better without the county roads being followed in the same way. That's when I pointed out that the municipal and county economy is better now than when the Workers' Party crashed. So that means that all of the red-green-driven states, and unfortunately, many of them now after the 2015 elections, have a chance of prioritizing this without us prioritizing anything else in the same way. I think it's worth bringing with me, even if the Workers' Party doesn't like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2449	I have tried to invite the Council of State to look forward. It was difficult for the state council, but at least we got the clarity that the difference in road safety between county roads and highways is not good enough. Then it's the natural follow-up question, which I'm sure the Council of State has predicted: what do we do with it? Because that's not how it gets better. The county roads are getting worse — they are getting worse with an increasing lag in a place between 1.5 and 2 billion. kr, estimated by the Council of State. It has become so bad that the Vegvesenet, despite the fact that it is not their responsibility, says that it is now necessary to have a separate programme to enable the county councils to take this back, which is currently calculated at 62 billion. kr. My question to the Council of State is, and then he might be answered as part of a cooperative coalition, even if he can't lick from NTP: what do you want to do with the aftermath that's on the county roads, in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2456	The best thing to do with it is to get bourgeoisly run counties who show the same willingness to give priority to the municipal budgets and county budgets to maintain the roads for which the counties are responsible. The alternative, as the Workers' Party actually indicates, is that the state has to put the states under administration, so that the states are forced to prioritize. What we can point out is that while both road, rail and coastal installations at national and local level have expired under the red-green government, one has ended up decaying on the railway, one has ended up decaying on the highways, and one has ended up decaying on the coastal installations. However, in some counties it is still due – despite the fact that the county economy is the best in many decades, and despite the fact that the county roads under today’s bourgeois majority have increased by 178 pst. Besides what the red-greens had planned. So a lot of work has been done, but it requires good cooperation between the state and the states, so that one actually spends the money on the county roads and not on everything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2461	The state council's claim that the county economy is so good is disputed by a great many, and it does not benefit from giving with one hand in the form of earmarked funds, which are relatively small, when paying it by restricting the financial freedom of action of the county councils. My question to the Council of State was not what has been done, and how wonderfully good the Council of State thinks he has done it in his period of government – something that can also be disputed, as we do, among other things. in the debate on the State budget. The question was, what do you want to do in the future? I understand that the Council of State is concerned that his party traps will win elections locally, but my question is: What will the Council of State do to comply with the advice of the serious situation that his own profession describes on the professional basis, which he was very concerned about in the previous debate and showed that you are listening to professionals? Will he respond to the wish of the Vegvesen to facilitate a separate programme that enables county councils to close the gap between county roads and national roads in road safety, which the Council of State considers not acceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2468	I think the best thing we can do in the future is do more of what we've already done: turn the decay under the red-green government into a maintenance promise under the bourgeois majority. I think we have results of that. I hear that the Workers' Party has become very concerned with problems that they themselves have not done anything about, but where today's majority have actually dealt with it. Zero kroner were granted for tunnel safety on the county roads under the red-green government. There are now formidable funds available under today's government. Racial protection appropriations on the county roads have increased compared to when the red-green ones crashed, and we grant 178 pst. in addition to the NTP framework for county roads in general. That means there's a bigger economic space now, and I think that's got to go on. When the Workers' Party complains about the aftermath of its own government – because that's what the maintenance siter's mission is – that's actually what we're working to bring down now. We've done it on highways, we're doing it on rail, and we're doing it on the coast. Then we have to make sure that the state politicians, who are the owners of the county roads, use the economic space they have to take down the road. I'm more than happy to cooperate there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2477	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2484	Report. St. 40 for 2015–2016 states that if ‘all road users complied with the speed limit, used the seat belt and did not drive in a drug-induced condition, the number of fatal accidents would be roughly halved’. This shows that road-related measures and work on right and traffic-bound behaviour, i.e. the actual choices we make in traffic, are very important in the future. However, if this is taken into account in the technological development of intelligent transport systems, autonomous vehicles, electric bicycles, etc., a very complex picture emerges. I am reasonably sure that new ITS will have a significant positive impact on road safety. At the same time, during a transitional period, it will also present new and unknown challenges. When the road infrastructure is to be shared by new and old vehicles with and without ITS systems, together with pedestrians and cyclists, new types of accidents will occur. It is important to meet several of these challenges with research-based actions, and there is a need for more knowledge of how we ensure that road users actually make the right choices in new situations, so that road safety work does not have a setback. Research and development across borders and between different actors provide added value and more targeted and systematic knowledge development. This calls for better coordination and coordination of research, and the Workers' Party believes that the proposal for a national cross-border council is a good proposal. Nevertheless, the proposal for a new cross-border advice does not prevent the establishment of a national vocational competence centre, as outlined in the draft representative. The Centre of Competence may also perform the task of secretarial services of the National Cross-Government Council and the Centre should be organised in such a way that the network includes the most central research environments in the field of road safety and the university and higher education sectors. The Workers' Party will show that the initiative taken by the Nordic University is widely welcomed by many actors. The working party believes it is absolutely right to establish a professional centre of competence. That is why we have also promoted the proposal. Research into, and the transport paradigm shift we are facing will be crucial for the success and security of the road in the future. In this context, there is also reason to remind the Assembly of the work carried out at the MIND Centre in Bodø and the establishment of Hell Arena in Stjørdal, which is also supported by several parties in this Chamber. The Labour Party feels that it is sad that we are alone on the proposal for a National Traffic Competence Centre, and we hope that other parties in retrospect will also see the benefits of this Centre and later agree to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2499	I thank you for a good debate, and I will not try to extend it – I will stick to the reasonable wording that makes debates not unnecessarily long. I have to point out a few things. When you go back to what's really the six chosen areas, I think that a lot of it captures the suggestions that come, and what needs to come next. One is the anchoring of cross-sectoral road safety work at the overall level. It's really been very focused on that message. Furthermore, improved supervisory and control efforts through enhanced cross-border cooperation, more effective dissemination, easier access and better exploitation of knowledge from accident investigations, guidelines for recording road traffic accidents and increased exchange of damage and accident data, enhanced coordination of R & D efforts and future fields of action in the field of road safety. When we talk about county roads and where it is most dangerous to drive, you have to remember that today the state is left with a disappearing little part of the road network. After 2010, most of the counties actually took over, so you run more often on a country road than on a national road in many areas, and that's of course a point. The second is that when the old highways were transferred to the states in 2010, I claim that there were holes for holes. It was exempted from the provisions of the Road Code that the road should be transferred to another owner and that it should first be restored. The state didn't. It created a huge increase in the maintenance seat suspension for the counties. So I know from experience that the states took that problem. For many counties it's gone in the right direction, but for some counties it's not, and we have to do something about it. There is also a lot of talk about tunnel safety and taking care of road safety also in tunnels. Then I want to remind you that there's a little paradox in this system that you're very busy with race, but you're not so busy with things that rage out. We had a fatal accident in which three people died in South Africa last year, and it was simply an earth race. There's actually also some of the main problem on some of our highways, among other things. in the valley of Gudbrand. The sum total I think this traffic message draws up a guideline and allows us to continue working on the matter, and I am very pleased with the broad consensus that has been in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2514	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 11 and 12. Case No. 13–15 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2554	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 13–15.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2585	The Committee shall be consulted on the position to be taken with regard to I.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2611	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Mandt on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the investigation of alternative dispute resolution arrangements in the event of a breach of life involving children and returns to the Storting in an appropriate manner’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2761	The Committee's position on A, §§ 35 and 36, first paragraph, shall be contested. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2775	A vote is taken on the Committee's position on the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2785	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2796	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B I The government is asked to establish procedures to ensure that prospective parents who do not live together when they have children receive good information about their rights and obligations as parents, including information on the possibilities of notifying them if they do not want joint parental responsibility. II The government is asking the government to establish procedures to ensure that both mother and father are informed about children’s attachment needs [[especially the first three years of life]] III The government is asked to ensure that there are statistics on the extent of births where father is reported as unknown, and their development after the amendment of the law. IV The government asks the government to evaluate joint parental responsibility from birth, after three years of the law. VT The government is asked to develop guidelines that ensure equal content for mediation and counselling after a break in life where children are involved. VI The government is asking for more research into how children are affected by different types of housing schemes following a reorganization of the family. VII The Storting asks the government to initiate a review of the court order issued in child distribution cases, to find answers to the extent to which fathers do not reach the judicial system and whether there is reason to lower the threshold to send parents back to mediation. VIII The government is asking the government to review the financial arrangements that apply when parents do not live together and to consider changes that can take account of the economy of single parents but at the same time prevent the economy from being a determining factor when decisions on the residence of children are taken. IX The government is asked to go through the financial support schemes for single dependants and assess changes that eliminate economic incentives to opt out of divided residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2843	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on B, IX. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2857	A vote shall be taken on the Committee's position on the remainder of B, I-VIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2923	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2934	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2943	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left the proposals No 3-6, from Ingunn Gjerstad on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to amend the foreign regulation so that LHBTI refugees may be exempted from the maintenance requirement in order to have family reunification with a partner, even when no marriage or cohabitation has been documented for at least 2 years.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2975	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the termination of the Rikshospitalet treatment monopoly for transpersons and to ensure that the requirements for access to gender-affirming treatment are amended in accordance with the recommendations of the expert report ‘Sex right – health for all sexes’. [[2015]] The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e2992	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for more and better knowledge of LHBTI people selling sex and for targeted relief measures targeting vulnerable young people.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3009	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to review the terms of the LHBTI persons applying for residence because of the risk of persecution in their country of origin. The review must take into account the real risk situation and not just the extent to which the country’s discriminatory criminal laws are enforced.’ The Labour Party, the Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3026	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose the introduction of a third gender category.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3044	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a new intersectional action plan for LHBTI as soon as possible, including the following actions: strengthen the work of Rosa on labour, health, school, kindergartens, police and asylum recipients, and ensure that it is done systematically and nationwide. strengthen the appropriations for LHBTI work, the ‘LHBTI pot’, above the State budget. ensure the LHBT centre under Bufdir further existence. ensure continued operation of the Skeivt archive in Bergen over the state budget. ensure the magazine Blink continued operations and the possibility of further dissemination via the school libraries. launch a research project to address the needs of a life phase policy for LHBTI people. At the same time, the government is asked to launch a new nationwide LHBTI population live-rate survey. Against this background, the Stortinget government is asking for a comprehensive report on the living conditions of LHBTI people, with a particular focus on a clearer life-phase policy. ensure that municipalities establish concrete LHBTI action plans. ensure that work against hate crime is systematically monitored and that all police districts are competent in the field. include sexual harassment and violence in the fight against bullying, and include it in the Training Act. examine the conditions of LHBTI applicants in Norway with a view to fulfilling protection and residence obligations, protection in reception, and the possibility of continued medical treatment for trans-persons arriving in a treatment course while staying in Norwegian asylum recipients. strengthen LHBTI knowledge as part of sexual education at school. start an investigation into the introduction of a third gender category in Norway.’ The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3099	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Center Party. ‘The government is asking the government to launch a new nationwide LHBTI population life-cycle survey and, in this context, to submit appropriate cases to the Storting for necessary measures.’ The President has reason to believe that the proposal is supported by all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3327	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3337	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3389	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3399	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3409	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Janne Sjelmo Nordås on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Ingunn Gjerstad on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to continue the work of the ‘Voseban Joint Project and E16 Voss–Bergen’ without delay’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3435	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In line with the leaders of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, the Government is asked to facilitate more coherent planning and development of major road and rail projects and to continue the work of the ‘Voseban Joint Project and E16 Voss–Bergen’ without delay.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3466	A total of nine proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 – 4, from Karianne O. Heavy on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No 5, from Karianne O. Heavy on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left the proposals No 6 and 7, from Karianne O. Heavy on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 8, from Karianne O. Heavy on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 9, by Hans Fredrik Grövan on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a regulatory framework to ensure that buses carrying children and young people on their way to and from school are clearly marked with their own signs.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3501	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a National Traffic Competence Centre for Increased Human Research in Traffic’.» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3518	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government in its proposal for a new National Transport Plan 2018-2029 to incorporate a separate programme to re-establish the maintenance set-up on the county road network as outlined in the planning basis of the transport modes and Avinor.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3535	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to revise the national accident prevention strategy in Norway.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3552	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the revision of the STRAKS register in order to ensure more accurate collection and recording of accident data, so that data from the State Road Service can be coordinated with external parties such as the Statistical Central Bureau. [[SSB]] The Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3570	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to pay greater attention to traffic knowledge and awareness-raising on road safety when renewing the Knowledge Lift.’ The left has announced that they were co-sponsored by an incurrency – and will vote against it. The Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3589	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 4, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The size request of the government as soon as possible and at the latest before the end of the current downgrading session propose the introduction of alcohol in line with the decision of the Storting as set out in the Innst. 282 S [[2014-2015]] Proposal No. 2 sounds ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of road traffic safety work.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to strengthen its competence in traffic knowledge and road safety in kindergarten and school.’ The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3628	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3672	Case No. 13–15 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to Acts 55, 56 and 57. No comments are proposed. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved for the second time in the legal proceedings and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-07.ana.ud391e3724	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
