ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e39	Honourable co-representatives! On 24 July 2017, former staging representative and staging president Jørgen Haarek Kosmo from Fauske and Horten died, 69 years old. He represented the Workers' Party and Westfold for five periods, from 1985 to 2005. During this time he was among others. the chair of the Judicial Committee and of the Control and Constitutional Committee. In the last period, from 2001 to 2005, he was president of the Stortinge. He was Minister of Defence from 1993 to 1997, in the Third Government of Gro Harlem Brundtland and in the Government of Thorbjørn Jagland, and Minister of Labour and Administration of Jens Stoltenberg's first government, from 2000 to 2001. Jørgen Kosmo always acted as a clear political leader in his various positions. Jørgen had a special capacity to design policy solutions for which it was possible to model majority voting. In 2005, the Stortinget appointed him a new national auditor. The National Audit Office as an institution got a raise over the eight years of Cosmo set at the rudder. Outwardly, he was clear in his communication of the reports' conclusions, at times scratched in the criticism, and he left no doubt about his impartiality. In the meantime, he was highly valued as a professionally capable, generous and inspiring leader. Jørgen Kosmo was the foreman of Fauske, who became one of the foremost trustees of the Workers' Party through a human age, and who held several of the country's highest offices. As a politician, he was characterized by his universality, his broad commitment and his publicity. It is said that he was a man with an interest in, and insight into, almost everything – something that was useful, whether it was in local policy, national policy, the Storing or government. He is also referred to as a wise and solution-oriented politician, one who gave good advice, was easy to talk to and one who could always trust. Throughout his life, Cosmo maintained a Nordic freshness in language and lightning. In the people, many with warm memories will be an unyielding politician – the man with the bar, the roll. In the Workers' Party he enjoyed great respect, which he also did across the parties. He was out with his colleagues, always available to share his experiences. And everyone got to take part in his mood and sometimes harsh humor. Today, we remember a keenly trusted man who never failed his roots as a carpenter, and who was deeply anchored in the movement of labour and the trade movement throughout his life. We bring peace to the memory of Jørgen Kosmos.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e66	The representatives of Anette Trettebergstien, Peter Frølich and Liv Signe Navarsette, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e86	The representative, Mr Liv Signe Navarsete, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e91	On behalf of the representatives of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Knut Arild Hareide, Ola Elvestuen, Abid Q. Raja, Willfred Nordlund, Audun Lysbakken, Mona Lill Fagerås and myself, I have the honour of presenting a proposal for a re-examination of the costs and consequences associated with the decommissioning of Andeya Air Station.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e96	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e102	On behalf of the representative Solfrid Lerbreck and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative on a car support scheme also for those who do not have a gainful job or are in training.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e107	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e112	On behalf of Mr. Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I would like to make a proposal to immediately stop all assisted return and forced return of asylum seekers to Afghanistan until the Stortinget has examined and taken decisions regarding Document 8:47 S for 2017-2018. I ask that the matter be dealt with under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e117	The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e122	On behalf of the representatives of Anniken Huitfeldt, Martin Kolberg, Jonas Gahr Støre and myself, I would like to propose an up-to-date review of the costs associated with the meeting of the Evenes of the maritime surveillance planes and the forward-looking fighter aircraft base.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e127	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 27 October 2017: ‘Changes among State Secretaries State Council was held at Oslo Castle on 27 October 2017 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: State Secretary Frode Hestnes is hereby dismissed from office as Minister of State Bent Höie in the Ministry of Health and Welfare and is again appointed Secretary of State for Prime Minister Erna Solberg. State Secretary Ronny Berg is hereby dismissed from office as State Secretary to Per Sandberg, Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. State Secretary Reymir Johannesson shall be dismissed from office as State Secretary to the State Council of Ketil Solvik-Olsen in the Ministry of Transport, with effect from 3 November 2017. Political adviser Veronica Pedersen Åsheim is appointed State Secretary for State Council Per Sandberg in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. Managing Associate Tommy Skjervold is appointed State Secretary for the State Council of Ketil Solvik-Olsen in the Ministry of Transport from 6 November 2017. Travel Life Manager Line Miriam Sandberg shall be appointed State Secretary of State Bent Höie in the Ministry of Health and Welfare from 10 November 2017.’ The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e157	The President will state that the Financial Committee has sent a letter to the Presidency requesting that the time limits for the budgetary procedure be suspended, as referred to in Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure. The President will therefore propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the third paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure that the Financial Committee should give its opinion on the national budget and the State budget no later than 20 November. This means that the financial position will be released on 30 November and the financial debate will be held on 4 December. As a consequence, it will not be possible for the Storting to examine the budgetary positions of the technical committees by the deadline of 15 December. The President will therefore also propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the sixth paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure that the budgetary positions of the technical committees should be reviewed by 15 December at the latest. Does anyone ask for the word?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e166	With the exception of the autumn of 2014, this is likely to be a harvest where established budgetary rules are waived. I recognise that the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, prior to the reading, has informed the Presidency that it wishes to derogate from the Rules of Procedure, and it says that it is not realistic to give the financial position in line with this. I would like to say on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV that we are against this proposal. We believe that there is a more difficult working environment for the Storting and the Committees to reach a proper conclusion. I believe that when we discussed the rules of procedure and the regulation of the Storting in the spring session in order to update it in view of the operation of the Stortingen, we should rather have gone in order to amend Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure rather than to have postponements that come to nothing each year. So on behalf of these three parties, I want to highlight the disagreement and opposition to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e175	The reason for the request for postponement now is precisely to avoid delays in the tap, as the representative Gahr Støre expressed it. I think it's neat – when we see that the deadline that was set is not possible and realistic – that we are already notifying the Stortinget, so that the expert committees can set a proper race. With an extension of the five-day session, as the Presidency has set out, all the Scientific Committees will have a sound treatment system to which it is possible to deal. Especially when we can plan this now, I think it makes sense. I agree with Mr Gahr Støre that there is reason to consider whether the Rules of Procedure should be amended, but the reality of this year is that if we were to comply with the Rules of Procedure, there would be six days for budgetary negotiations. I think everyone understands that is unrealistic. Then I think it's neat to inform the Storting about it already now, and I'm glad that the presidency has set itself a postponement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e182	I just want to recommend the Christian People's Party's representatives to support the presidency's position, because the way it's put up, I think it's extremely demanding for the Storting's work to get a good process around the budget. We in the Christian People's Party presented our alternative budget on Thursday. The last consultation in the committees was on Friday, so we had to present the budget before the hearings in the committees were over. I think that's problematic. The best thing would have been that we had group meetings yesterday, after the hearings had ended, and presented budgets perhaps tomorrow or Wednesday. To believe that the negotiations and budget would have been completed by 12 November – one would have had three or four days on it – is unrealistic, and I would say it is irresponsible. Therefore, I would strongly ask that one change the process. Far on the way, the process here on the house is set up for a majority government. We don't – we haven't. When you look at the negotiations in the last few years, you know it takes two to three weeks. That is why I think it is much more tidy that one already now announces that the financial debate is not possible to carry out the day that is set. Then the committees can prepare, know when the days of debate will come, and then the whole race will be more tidy. But I would strongly ask that the presidency look at a changed process and that the hearings come earlier. We can then provide a better alternative budget – and perhaps also earlier – and perhaps even better time for negotiations by having the finance debate come earlier and by giving a better time for the individual debates in the committees later.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e190	In addition, the President will stress that it is the deadlines for budgetary discharge we are talking about – not the extension of the session.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e195	The six-day deadline originally set is not only unrealistic, as the committee leader says, but it will also be completely irresponsible. I also believe that the other opposition parties, who have not agreed to enter into negotiations with the government party, actually see. Such a large and comprehensive document and a matter as important as the country's state budget is for the Storting, require time. Even if four of us are going to start negotiations later today, there should be some in principle about almost everything that is put on the table of demands from the Left and the Christian People's Party, we need that time, simply to the necessary quality assurance that both the Ministry of Finance and the individual departments should do, so that the country gets a state budget that is as well qualified as possible. The problem from my point of view – I now have the experience of sitting and negotiating for four state budgets – is not the time we necessarily need in the negotiating room, but the Rules of Procedure and/or the Calendar, which do not have enough days to meet the needs of a minority government regime when dealing with such a large budget. I would really recommend the presidency to go a few rounds and discuss how one can put up with a Rules of Procedure and a procedure on the house, which means that one skips this ceremony every fall, where one must send a formal request for non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure. I will be surprised if not the other opposition parties, with the Labour Party as the largest opposition party of the assembly, are some in such a row of thoughts and are occupied by a process that takes care of the need for the State budget, rather than in a way of making a point that it is more about games from those who negotiate, than actually absolutely necessary, responsible work in the negotiating room.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e204	The President will draw attention to the fact that there will be voting on this, so the representatives should not go.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e209	For the sake of order, I would like to say that today's budgetary system was adopted in 1997. The current budgetary arrangements have not been drawn up by majority governments. We had eight years of minority government from 1997 to 2005, and in that period, with a single exception, it was not a problem to keep the deadlines set in the Financial Regulation. In the last period, there has been a situation in which asking for a derogation from the Rules of Procedure has become the main rule, and that is what opposition parties are responding to today. In ours we had a review of the Rules of Procedure, and it is remarkable that those who today say that the Rules of Procedure are problematic, not in our initiative to change the Rules of Procedure, because it is precisely what one should have done if one believes that one is unable to follow the Rules of Procedure that the Storting has had since 1997, under varying governments – and many of them minority governments. I would therefore urge the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to vote against the proposal by the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e218	Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e223	After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e226	Then we're ready to go to voting. The President has proposed that the third and sixth paragraphs of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure be waived. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e242	The timetable for the discharge and management of budgetary positions will be published at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e260	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e276	The Presidency of the Grand Duchy has presented a position on amendments to the Grand Duchy's Rules of Procedure. The amendments consist, on the one hand, of clarification of the rules in Section 13 on the composition of the trade committee, and, on the other, of corrections of some errors arising from the examination of the report of the regulatory committee in the spring of 2017. As regards Section 13 on the composition of the professional committees, general rules and derogations are proposed. The general rule is that all party groups shall have members of the Financial Committee and have the right to have members of the Control and Constitutional Committee. In the case of party groups which are not represented in all committees, Section 13 proposes that, at the request of the group concerned, the Electoral Committee may, in exceptional cases, derogate from the obligation to be represented in the Financial Committee. For these groups of parties, the Electoral Committee may also agree that either the member of the Financial Committee or the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is also a member of another Trade Union Committee. It is also proposed in Section 13 that no one can be a member of more than two committees. Finally, I would like to point out that a small error has crept into the setting. On page 2, it shall read: ‘On this basis, the Presidency proposes the following form of the third paragraph of Section 13’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e285	Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e301	The meeting unanimously decided on 6 October this year to approve the mandates of all the elected representatives – so that it can be taken care of. This is in the light of the recommendations made by the Innst Powers Committee. 1 S for 2017-2018. The reason why the Powers Committee is now submitting a new referral is that the Governing Council has forwarded decisions in two further appeals that have been filed. The two complaints were made to the municipality of Kristiansand within the time limit of the appeal seven days after the election day, but they have remained in the municipality and have not been received until 11 October by the national election board. The Committee's position gives a thorough account of the review procedure. I would therefore like to mention briefly that both complaints concern Kristiansand municipality's choice of polling facilities. The complainants believe that the new premises are less suitable for both access and availability, parking and traffic conditions than the old ones. The Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation, in its case study of the National Election Board, shows that no information is available to indicate that the relevant polling facilities are not suitable and accessible. On this basis, the National Election Board has decided that the complaints are not admissible. The Committee has no comments on the Governing Council’s decision. The Committee also agrees with the Governing Council's observation that it is unfortunate that the complaints have remained in the municipality for a long time. To this end, the Committee asks the Ministry of the Interior to intensify the complaint rules against the municipalities in an appropriate manner. Let me also correct a slight error in the setting in the Committee's comments. It says: ‘has remained in the municipalities’. It should be the «municipality», since it is only about the municipality of Kristiansand. On this basis, the Powers Committee proposes that the decision of the Governing Council be annexed to the minutes of the two appeals in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e320	Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e332	The size is ready to go to voting on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e665	Referral case No 15 is proposed to be dealt with under point (c) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure. Rigmor Aasrud has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e672	The Workers' Party may support the proposal to deal urgently with Document 8:47, but before the Stortinge considers the reality of the proposal, it is necessary that both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Council of State for Integration and Immigration come to the Stortinge. So, together with the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Red Party and the Green Party, we have today sent a letter to the relevant government councils asking them to make a statement in the Storting before the matter is dealt with. I'm asking the presidency to make it possible for it to happen quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e681	I just want to clarify briefly that if the Storting wants the two councils to come and explain, the Right will of course not oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-07.ana.ud327e686	Please ask for more information on the verbatim report of proceedings. 15? I don't think so. It has therefore been adopted. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
