ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e28	The representative of Knut Arild Hareide is informed that the permit granted in days 15 and 16 November was changed to sickness leave in the same period. – This message is taken into account. The representatives of Ingunn Foss, Gisle Meininger Saudland, Åsmund Aukrust, Knut Arild Hareide, Heidi Nordby Lunde, Ola Elvestuen, Lars Haltbrecken, Sven Roald Hansen and Ole André Myhrvold, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the Nordic counties: Kjell-Idar Juvik and Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai Two permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on sickness leave for the representative of Ingarill Olsen from 22 November until further notice. by the Central Party Group on the Per Olaf Lundtägen Allowance on 23 and 24 November in order to attend the meeting of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee in Geneva On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the state of Buskerud: Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy 23 November. For Finnmark County: Steinar Karlstrøm from 22 November until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e115	Steinar Karlstrøm is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e137	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Vidar Helgesen, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and Jon Georg Dale will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Anette Trettebergstuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e146	I want to ask the Minister of Culture a question. One of the finest things about our society is the hundreds of thousands of people across the country who are on fires, who are using their time, their resources, who are in charge of things they burn for, to help others and to create good communities. We are totally dependent on the volunteers and the small and large organisations they work for all over the country. The Council of State is Minister of Volunteering, and when she went on as Minister of Culture and Minister of Volunteering, she said that strengthening volunteering was a priority for her. Since then, we've only seen broken promises and reduced ambitions. There's a lot of cutbacks in organizations that are making up for those who need it the most, in the budget again this year, shortening the VAT compensation system, and it's all extra small when we know that the government can afford extra tax cuts in the billions to those who have the most in society. It is no wonder that this creates great frustration outside of volunteer people and the organisations that are now afraid of being cut in next year's budget. Is the Minister of Volunteering proud of the state budget for volunteering?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e157	What I am proud of is, above all, the fantastic volunteer we have in Norway. It's important to the individual, but it's also important to us as a society. The fact that we trust each other and that volunteering is part of building good communities is crucial. Then I'm proud of what the government has done. We've increased the VAT compensation by over 400 million. kr in the last period. Now the VAT compensation is 1.35 billion. kr. We've changed the inheritance law, so that masterless inheritance instead of going straight in the big swallow now goes directly to special children's and youth organisations. It's over 20 million. kr for them. We've changed the distribution of the tipping agents, so that more non-governmental organisations can enjoy them, and we're increasing the grassroots percentage. There is a great economic boost that goes directly to volunteering. As Minister of Volunteering, I am concerned that we should have good framework conditions, that it should be easy to run the volunteer, that it should be easy to be voluntary, and therefore I believe that in the last four years, volunteering in many areas has made it easier. They have been given increased appropriations. Then I am very happy that the government has decided to start a new volunteering announcement – the first ten-year volunteering announcement – where we will provide a good framework and a good starting point for the volunteering to get along well for the future, because we see that the recruitment of volunteering is done in other ways. People want to be voluntary in other ways than before, and the government wants to facilitate, so that we get a continued strong volunteer in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e168	It is easy to agree with the praise given by the Council of State to those on whom every day is voluntary, but it does not keep up with the talk and praise of volunteering – one must also show it in practice. This government has not done so. On the contrary, every year we have seen these organisations being subjected to large cuts when the budget is presented. A unanimous increase was decided in June so late that the government had to come up with a speeding-up plan for the VAT compensation scheme that goes to these organisations. But what happens? Yes, in this year’s budget, they have put forward a 32 - pst cut. That can't be what the government means by a escalating plan. The Council of State is talking about the arrival of a message. It is also a very poor consolation for those organisations that are now experiencing great cuts. We also see in the cultural field that the actors get cut off, but the government is working on a message. Is there any reason why, when the Council of State does not win the budgetary conferences and is put to a cut in its budgets, it chooses to sit down and write a message?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e175	On the cultural budget, I am very pleased that we have been given a boost to volunteering. This has also been achieved by the total budget of the government. If we look at the effect of the changes in taxes and taxes and the increase in the profits from Norsk Tipping, the government's contribution to volunteering for 2018 is an increase. I just want to underline that. I am pleased that on the cultural budget we have launched new arrangements for volunteering. We've put in $10 million. kr to strengthen the voluntary cultural field around the whole of Norway. There's a need for a lift, because it's too small a priority. This applies to voluntary activities within cows, herds, where children and young people take an active part in their everyday lives. We have e.g. a new system in which we have provided funds for volunteers to participate and share food experiences with older people. We're going to hospital homes and homes for the elderly and help them eat to improve their health.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e182	It opens for follow-up questions – first Masud Gharahkani.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e187	What describes Norway best is hard work, hard work, hard work. On the same morning as the government budget was presented, the Minister of Culture expressed the clear profile of the budget, including: was voluntary it was to bet on. The Minister of Culture may not have been at the same budgetary conference as the rest of the government. I would like to remind the Council of State that gambling is not the government's money. We have a volunteer minister who has forgotten the voluntary declaration. The government gives with one hand and takes roughly with the other. This is why my question goes to the Council of State for petty cutbacks: the Association of the Cross and LNU Culture says that if the government's proposal for a government budget is adopted, all the great coractivities will be damaged. It is cut in adult education, cut in cultural support for children and young people and greater shortening of VAT compensation. Why do we have a Minister of Volunteers who lacks a say in their own government, which, over and over again, in the government budget after the state budget, depends on other parties on the Stortinget to save the volunteer?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e192	I am pleased that the cultural budget that I presented is a strengthening of voluntary activity, and that we are introducing new arrangements to strengthen voluntary cultural life throughout the country. As I was in the answer to the previous question, we are now putting new, fresh resources into the scheme to make it easier to be voluntary and participate in the voluntary cultural life of the choirs and corps. Then I'm glad we've increased the VAT compensation scheme by 400 million in the last four years. kr. There's a lot of money, going directly to volunteering, and what volunteering itself says is the best way to create activity. We're using 3.5 billion. DKK over the tickers, in addition to the 11 billion. kr we use over the state budget. I think there are few countries in the world that have such good arrangements and good assumptions to facilitate a strong volunteer. In addition, I could have framed many other schemes that add up to this, which make volunteering a good starting point for activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e199	Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e204	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is also Minister of Culture. The Labour Party is quite right that one of the major features of this budget is that it cuts over a low shoe in funds for non-governmental organisations and voluntary actions. I want to raise one cut that I think is directly embarrassing for Norway's reputation. The ancient memory association manages some of the country's leading national clones, including many stave churches, medieval ceilings, monasteries and other cultural treasures. The association’s museum operations, consisting of almost 7000 members, have 160,000 visitors a year — for example. The castle ruins of Steinvikholm, which the Prime Minister chose this year as his Christmas card motif. Doesn't the council have some bad taste in her mouth that this choice of Christmas cards coincides with the government cutting off support for the association's museum operations?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e212	Cultural memory policy is an important part of the Ministry of Climate and Environment's portfolio, and we have made considerable efforts to do so in recent years. Among other things, this amazing Christmas card motif is an example of it. This is an example of how funds have been provided for refurbishment and upgrading, and so that process is not generally affected by the budget cut to the Early Memory Association, which is concerned with museum operations. In this case, there has actually been a significant contribution to the refurbishment of this installation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e217	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e222	I would like to ask questions to the State Council Hofstad Helleland. My colleagues here earlier took up the idea of volunteering and cultural life, and especially cultural freedom and free performing arts are hard hit by these cuts. Several important cultural institutions that have a range far from the country are now in uncertainty, especially those in free performing arts – groups that are extremely important for the diversity of cultural services. Studium Actoris in Fredrikstad is now phased out by the Council of Culture in terms of support, and is now proposed entirely cut off by the government also on the state budget. The message is to await the cultural message, but the message from Studium Actoris is that it means the hook on the door for them in February 2019. Jo Stroemgren Company and other emerging groups within the so-called ‘basic financial instrument’ will soon reach the 12-year limit on how long they can receive support, and will stand without funding in 2019, pending a review. It can also mean the hook on the door for them, is the message from there. How will the Council of State follow up that these groups of free performing arts, which are now standing without funding, must not be shut down?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e235	It is true that it is an important principle in cultural policy that the portfolio under the Council of Culture is the Council of Culture which alone responds to it. It is not that we, from the Government’s — or Ministry of Culture — go in and review decisions taken by the Council of Culture. The artistic and professional assessments that they make are the ones that have to answer for. But I very much agree with the representative that we have the potential to bring forward the voluntary part of cultural life, also in terms of many measures in the field of freedom. That's exactly why I've also said that one of the most important things about the work on a new cultural message is that we manage to lift and strengthen the voluntary field of culture. This is also why the government is now introducing a completely new regime in the state budget for 2018 – in order to strengthen voluntary cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e242	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e247	They've often said that $1 to volunteer is $10 left. And it's often said about volunteering that it's glue, it's community-creating, it creates equivalency, everyone can participate, everyone can participate, it creates cohesion, and it creates proximity. It is even doing a number of public tasks. In terms of preparedness and follow-up in crises, volunteers are often incredibly important. Because volunteers participate, many kids are raised by poverty. Why, then, is it so important for the government not to extend a hand to the volunteers, but actually cut down to ideal actors? Then I hear the council says that choirs are important and corps are important. Yeah, that's important. But that's also all the other thing I'm referring to here. Why does one then choose to set this up against each other?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e256	I don't entirely agree that we're setting it up against each other. I'm e.g. Very happy that we are now putting forward a completely new arrangement in the state budget. Let's take 10 million. To tackle poverty, where we ensure that all children throughout Norway have the opportunity to participate in organised leisure activities and do not have to stand outside and ensure that the other comrades and friends participate in a leisure activity. I am also pleased that new arrangements will come, for example. in the field of health — volunteering helps older people to gain more nutrition. We know that this is important for the health of the elderly. Now there are ongoing negotiations on the state budget, and that is of course allowed to hope. As Minister of Volunteers, I hope that we will get even more to volunteer. There I would like to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left, who, over the last few years, have made a real contribution to lifting the volunteers both in terms of VAT compensation and also in other areas. In some departments, some adjustments have been made, including the lack of objective criteria for which organisations are to be supported and not supported. I'll look at that in the volunteer message, see if we can embrace everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e265	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e270	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. I didn't really intend to take the floor in this round of questions, but the question from the Senterpartiet went to Steinvikholmen and what they called a small cut to the Early Memory Association, which is, of course, a support to the Museum activities of the Early Memory Association, but for which neither the Center Party nor the former Red-Green Government have given any support. This museum activity received support for the first time two years ago, with 3 million. NOK, which we negotiated at the time, and SEK 5 million. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. And then it's gone this year. Now there's a work going on, and there's no doubt that the Left is going to bet on volunteering in this round as well. But my question is, in relation to cultural memory protection, whether the Council of State is prepared to look at how to continue and strengthen the interaction between what is a public bet and a comprehensive voluntary commitment to cultural memory protection, such as the Association of Pre-Memory Memory with its museum activities... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e277	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e282	This is the way in the cultural memory field, as the representative of Elvesuen is involved, that very much of the effort around the country, the coast around and across the country is voluntary, and we have many examples of very good and very important interactions between large, public funds and totally decisive voluntary, local efforts to restore old cultural memories. There is a work that will continue. The annual budgetary processes will always have to have priorities that will cut some people sometimes, but the main picture is that we are totally dependent on an interaction with the amazing actors in this field. The ancient memory association is one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e288	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e293	My question goes to Minister for Climate and Environment Vidar Helgesen. Just before Christmas called in last year, Minister of Climate and Environment Vidar Helgesen stopped the license on the wolf within the wolf zone. This encountered strong resistance, yes, there was almost a rebellion in the affected districts, and not least here in the Storing and in the Council of State's own party. We all remember Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Ingerd Schou and several local Right-Rapporteurs' strong reactions precisely because it was perceived as a violation of the predatory agreement in Stortinget. The size had to clarify the wolf management in relation to the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention as late as six months ago. Here, the necessary decision was taken to extract a certain number of wolves in order to limit damage. In view of this, the regional surveyors have taken a decision on felling. The hunting outside the wolf zone has been going on since October 1st, and until now there are five wolves. Great was the surprise yesterday when Oslo intervened for the trial of the WWF now stops all the hunt in a temporary foreclosure even outside the wolf zone. The intent of the size of the predatory settlement was clear before treatment about six months ago. It was further prepared after a new treatment. Thus, the judgment of the District Court came after an appeal by the WWF, one of the most obvious actors on the one hand in the debate on wolves and predators in Norway. This can be seen as nothing more than an attempt to train legitimate democratic decisions which, incidentally, differ from one another. What does the Council of State think about this kind of political change in the judiciary, and how will the Council of State facilitate us to avoid it in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e306	The wolf population is now above the stock target and therefore the predators have the power to decide whether wolves can agree on licensing agreements and how many. This is why regional predators have decided to license a total of 50 wolves in Norway during this period. 26 of these wolves are not associated with flocks in the wolf zone, and we have chosen by the department not to modify the decision of predators of wolves not living in flocks. That's because we believe that this extraction does not threaten the survival of the population, and that it is in line with the two-part goal that the Storting has put great emphasis on, not only in the last period, but for many years. Then we've had a suffocation. The State has been sued for the trial of the WWF, on which Myhrvold is in, and the WWF received yesterday's trial in the claim for so-called temporary enrichment. It implies, until further notice, a full stop in the licensing of 12 wolves outside the wolf zone in regions 4 and 5. We received the court's order yesterday. We now need time to review the verdict and consult with the Government Attorney. The current presumption applies either until an appeal has been dealt with, until a new decision has been taken or until there is a final judgment in the main action. What I'm doing now is reviewing the verdict and in dialogue with the Government Attorney decide the next step from the state, but it's too early to conclude about it here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e315	The Court considers that the authorities of the Environment Directorate have committed a legal error and a procedural error relating to the conditions under which hunting should not threaten the survival of the population. So once again, we risk missing important time with track snow, which is a prerequisite for this type of hunting – this time due to a procedural error in the Council of State's own profession. There is a demanding situation that has arisen, and the question to the Council is whether the State Council Helgesen will immediately take the initiative to correct the procedural errors of the environmental management in the matter, and how quickly can we expect a new decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e320	As I had in my previous answer, we now need time to review the verdict and to consult with the Government Attorney on how we will handle this further. We have put great emphasis on this work to follow up the leadership of the Storting decision in ours, and we will focus on this in the future. When it comes to this feeling from yesterday, we need some more time to decide how we'll deal with it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e327	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e332	If what this council is known for, is to spend time — time to train decisions, time to train that wolves are being shot, that we are being hunted for wolves, and that we can get a wolf administration that takes into account the local population. People's patience is over, Councillor! And what people expect is not that he spends time, but that he acts, that the Council of State is now getting the hunt going, that he corrects the procedural errors that happened in his own professional body, and that he gets a new decision in place, so that the hunt can start. So my question to the Council of State is, how long will the Council of State spend this year? Last year, the Council of State spent so long that there was no hunting within the zone. Will we experience it this year as well? When do we get the answer as to whether it will be hunted in the zone, when can we expect the hunt to start again, and when will the defects be fixed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e339	With regard to the question of the wolf flocks that are wholly or partly within the wolf zone – in the case of 24 wolves – I am now in the process of finalising the complaint on a licence agreement that exists for the wolves, and I hope to make that decision somewhat earlier this year than last year. I can make that clear to the representative, Mr Vedum, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. But there are complex assessments to be made there as well. But as I said, we focus on following up the leaders from the Storting from the debate in ours. The first thing you have to do as a state council when there is a court order is to respect the court order. I do, and that's why the licensing of these twelve wolves in the regions 4 and 5 has stopped. The feeling came yesterday, so we need something more time than today to decide how we take this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e346	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e351	The state councils have had the highest responsibility for predatory policy in the last two years. All the cases concerning the wolf that was treated in the previous breeding period were dealt with under his management. In the spring of 2016, Stortinget made a clear decision on stockpiles for wolves, and the predators followed up the decision before the Council of State stopped hunting on 20 December. In the spring of 2017, Stortinget made a new decision, and it was thought that all the uncertainties had been resolved. It was so clear that the Prime Minister himself traveled inland in the election campaign and said: Shoot the wolf. Yesterday came the message that the license agreement has been stopped, and that we are back to the start. The Labour Party is in favour of a two-fold objective in predatory policy, in the interests of both our international commitments and the grazing industry, but crucial for both sides is that we get predictability, that we get down on the level of conflict, and that we get confidence in the administration. My specific question to the Council of State is therefore: After two years in the chair – to what extent does he himself feel that he has succeeded in creating trust in the administration and reducing the level of conflict in wolf cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e360	Let me first make it clear that when the representative of Aukust points out that the Prime Minister traveled inland and said: shoot the wolf, it was not about a licensing issue. It was a matter of harm-reduction, it was about a Swedish wolf whip that was herded on Hadeland, and was shot. It is also the person who has been responsible for the vast majority of losses and for the increase in losses we have seen this year. Otherwise, the losses go down. Under this government, predator management has seen previous action to avoid losses than what we saw under the red-green, and that's why the losses go down. That's what the number is saying, and I'm very satisfied with that. I also put great emphasis on following up on the leadership that came in our decision to raise the issue. We have done that in connection with the matter that is now before the court. We will also do that in the case of the wolf herds within the wolf zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e370	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e375	Norwegian wolf management must comply with Norwegian law, and at the latest in ours has confirmed, as far as I know a unanimous increase, that the nature diversity law will remain in place, and we also have a broad agreement to follow up the Berne Convention, to which we have joined. Once one has received this ruling in Oslo district court, then the basis and the background of the problem we are in is not that the stock goal is too low in relation to what is in the bonds under Norwegian law. It was also pointed out by the Council of State when we first dealt with the wolf report in Stortingen, that there could be a conflict between stock objectives and the legal obligations that we have. Then my question becomes: Does the Council of State still believe that there can be a conflict between the goals of the population set by the Storting and the law to which the Stortinge has joined and adopted by the Law of Nature on Diversity?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e384	First of all, I would like to say that we are on the basis of the government's assumption that the adopted stockpiles of the Storting are within the framework of the Nature Diversity Act and within the framework of the Berne Convention. Then it is that the law has conditions for killing, and they have to be assessed regardless of whether you are above or below the stock target. There was much of the starting point for last year's fight, that the law sets out conditions, and the law is to be followed. In the present case, the court has raised questions relating to the relationship between the stock target and the survival of the population. It's among the things we now need time to review in this sentence, in consultation with the Government Attorney.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e393	Arne Nävra - to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e398	First of all, I really want to give 'cry' and praise to the Right Council because he was standing in the storm that was around the wolf last time, and because he interpreted our international obligations and our law in the wolf's favor that time. So to the foundation of the administration. In Sweden, a scientific assessment of the viability of the wolf population has been carried out and an administration has been established on the basis of that investigation. Similarly, no similar action has been taken in Norway, nor is it possible to determine what is good management of a viable Norwegian population. The Storting has asked the government to carry out a professional review of the Norwegian sub-population of wolves. This is now over six months ago. What is the status of the work to determine what it will mean to have a viable wolf population in Norway, which the Stortinget asked the government to start? It was April 19th this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e407	It is true that the Storting has asked the government to do this. I have to say that this is not the only thing that the Storting has asked of us in the wolf policy and in predator policy, and both in the department and in the Environment Directorate, it is working on detonating the follow-up to predator policy. In this specific case, the technical review of the Norwegian sub-population of wolves, we have been commissioned by the Ministry to the Environment Directorate. They will tender for this task and ensure that such a review is carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e412	Steinar Reiten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e417	In recent years, we have seen that nature protection organisations have deliberately used the legal apparatus to try to prevent the extraction of wolves that comply with the stock target adopted by the Stortinget in 2016. It is a strategy that has proved to be very effective, because the length of the trial period in the judicial system is often so long that there is no final recognition before the hunting season is over. In the case which the World Natural Fund has brought against the State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, it is stated that there is a legal error. It is pointed out that the ministry in its decision to authorise the licensing of wolves has not carried out an assessment of whether the extraction threatens the survival of the stock, according to the Nature Diversity Act § 18. The Court of First Instance upheld it and has ruled that the licence hunt is suspended until there is a final judgment in the main proceedings. Does the Council of State agree that embarrassing accuracy in the handling of complaints concerning the killing of wolves is particularly important in order to ensure that withdrawals are not halted by subsequent legal proceedings? And can the Council of State explain how a mistake such as this could occur in the ministry's handling of the complaint case?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e426	It is quite right, as the representative says, that it is important with accuracy in predatory policy. It is important to be precise in all areas of policy. We have based our decision not to change the decisions of predators on these wolves, who do not live in revir, on the fact that the Environment Directorate believes that there is no danger to survival of the population and that it is important to follow the two-part objective underlying the wolf policy. Then the right has come to the conclusion that this has not been adequately illuminated after the court's judgment. That's the starting point for us to now need time to review the verdict, and we'll do that as quickly as it can.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e433	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e438	My question also goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. During the last few weeks, there have been major discussions on the Goliath oil industry – on profitability and safety. The government’s oil and energy minister has been reluctant to participate in the discussion, but the expansion of oil in the Barents Sea is also a responsibility for the Minister for Climate and Environment. We have to get away from fossil energy use if we're going to have some chance of limiting global warming to a maximum of 1.5 degrees. In a short time, Statoil will present a plan to expand the Johan Castberg field in the Barents Sea. The field is planned for production after 2020 and will have an annual emissions of 270 000 tonnes of CO 2 from production. The size of the case will be dealt with next year. The Minister for Climate and Environment’s own professional body, the Environment Directorate, delivered a consultation opinion on the impact assessment by Johan Castberg in September this year. It says: ‘In the opinion of the Directorate-General for the Environment, alternative expansion solutions are not sufficiently developed and the possibilities for electrification of the field with them.’ The Directorate further writes: ‘In order to allow the Storting to make a real assessment of different expansion solutions, an additional investigation should be submitted assessing the possibilities for electrification with other expansion solutions.’ Johan Castberg will have large greenhouse gas emissions throughout its planned lifetime up to 2052, a time when Norway aims to approach zero emissions. Does the Minister for Climate and Environment agree with his own department, the Environment Directorate, that the environmental impact of Johan Castberg is too poorly investigated? Will the Minister for Climate and Environment ensure that the power supply is sufficiently well established before the matter is brought before the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e463	I believe that the most important thing with regard to the oil and gas sector and its place in climate policy is that we contribute – internationally and in Norway – to reducing oil demand. No country is doing more to reduce the demand for oil from the transport sector, which is the biggest demander than Norway is doing. It's one important thing. In the case of Norwegian oil and gas production: yes, it has large emissions. The CO 2 tax, which we have had for many years, has contributed to many measures in the oil and gas industry to reduce emissions from oil and gas production. It has been important, but there is no doubt that oil and gas production has and will have significant emissions in the years to come. Nor is there any doubt that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change assumes that oil and gas will be part of the world’s energy mix for many, many years to come and that oil and gas will be needed. It is then important that we are part of the EU quota system – that the emissions occurring on Norwegian soil are compensated for by measures in other European countries, paid by the oil and gas industry, so that Europe meets the climate targets that we have set together. We will be able to do that for 2020, and we will have to do that for 2030. The EU ETS has just been tightened up into a new EU consensus. We have argued for tightening up the quota system, and it is also important for the issue of electrification, because whatever action is taken, the European emission effect will be the same because the oil and gas industry is part of the quota system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e473	I did not register an answer to my question whether the Council of State would ensure that the environmental consequences of the expansion are properly presented. In its opinion on Johan Castberg, the Environment Directorate also points out that rapid development of zero-emission technologies and a tighter global climate policy increase the uncertainty about the profitability of the project. I quote Helgesen's own tradesmanship: ‘In our view, it is important that the size is presented to the real economic uncertainty of the project, and not only with one profitability calculation based on assumptions where there is a high degree of uncertainty associated with each individual assumption.’ The Directorate for the Environment also refers to recommendations from the G20 Financial Stability Board. They recommend that, in addition to normal profitability assessments, expansion projects also have to assess profitability on the basis of an oil price and the quota price which assumes that the world reaches the two-degree target. Will the Council of State ensure that the Government follows the Council of the Environment Directorate and that, in the context of the development of oil on Norwegian soil, assessments of profitability are made which require actual achievement of its objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e487	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e492	Providing lighting of the profitability of each development project is the responsibility of the Minister for Oil and Energy and not the Minister for Climate and Environment. What I am concerned about, on the other hand, has been concerned about and not so long ago, is that, as the first government in the world, we have reduced a climate risk sample to assess Norway's exposure to climate risk. It will also affect the issues of the value of fossil resources over time going down. The profitability assessments will provide a new basis for further discussion and evaluation when the Climate Risk Committee's suspension is available. Otherwise, I have to say that the Directorate for the Environment, as a professional body, obviously has to make his assessments and give his advice. They are not instructed politically until they come up with those advices, but it is not that we all follow political advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e501	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e506	It is very difficult to get an answer to this from the Minister for the Environment. I think it's beginning to grow a pretty strong opinion in this room and in Norwegian public opinion that we're starting to lose control of the management of the oil business, and for Goliath owes it to the economy. The Minister who is here now is responsible for the environment. The Environment Directorate has made it clear that Castberg's spending is too poor. She has simply not been adequate. The question is whether the minister will follow this up and ask for a proper settlement, ask for a proper settlement. The Directorate for the Environment is very clear that the Storting must have a proper environmental assessment of its development when it comes to the Storting. The simple question for the Minister for the Environment is: Will the Minister for the Environment demand this in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e515	It is a well-known matter that the government's superiors remain in the government. What I can assure Fylkesnes about is that I will take the Environment Directorate's assessment with me and evaluate it myself. Then we'll have discussions before we get back to Stortinget. Since electrification was a theme here, I found it important to stress that although electrification would have reduced Norwegian cap emissions, it would not have any significance on the European level, due to the fact that the oil and gas sectors are part of the EU ETS. Therefore, we need to assess where we can get the most climate gas cut for the money. There is no indication that there is such a measure on a Norwegian base. We take the Environment DG's assessment with us and come back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e524	Hege Haukeland Liadal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e529	My follow-up question also goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. The working party is concerned that the oil and gas produced by Norway and on which the world relies shall be produced and used in the future in such a way that emissions are reduced and as far as possible removed. Here we have to go to the front, here we can go to the front. An important contribution in this way to reducing emissions is inter alia: electrification. Does the government share this ambition? And, if so, what are the three main environmental initiatives taken by the government in its budget for 2018? They are out of my sight, but I would like the minister to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e536	We are concerned that the oil and gas sector should cut emissions, and to achieve this, the CO2 tax is absolutely fundamental. Perhaps the most important thing that has happened in recent months to get it done is something that is not initially adopted in this room or in the government, but where we are at the European process. That is the agreement on the European quota system. It is a very important climate action for Norway, one of our most important climate action, but it is therefore adopted in the EU, and now agreement has been reached. It will mean a tighter regime in the next few years, and it will affect Norwegian oil and gas activities. In the case of electrification, it is important for emissions in Norway, but there is a cost assessment up to the fact that because oil and gas are part of the allowances system, it is not such that electrification in Norway will cut at European level.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e543	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e549	Extraction of oil and gas is the largest emission source we have in Norway, with almost 15 million tonnes in emissions last year. It is true that this is part of the quota system, but also in Europe, there are many countries that have measures within the quota system, for which I believe the Council of State is also in favour. The United Kingdom is eliminating its consumption of coal. It's a discussion in Germany. I believe that the government also believes that it would be an advantage if Germany also reduced its consumption of coal. It could also open up to Norwegian gas. So it's common to come up with measures to reduce emissions. In Norway, there is only a requirement to have an assessment of electrification of new fields, and then my question is: is it not now time that Norway also tightens up and demands electrification in new fields or refurbishment of waste gases? It is technically possible, and in many cases it is profitable, and it will provide a basis for the EU to reduce its quota system more quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e554	We share that view that action needs to be taken within the quota system. We see that in the Norwegian industry, and we also see that in the oil and gas industries. This has occurred not least because of the CO2 price and because of the allowance system. In the event of contractions in the allowance system, there will be more of them. As a result, Norwegian oil and gas industries have been at the forefront of emission reduction measures. In the case of concrete assessments of electrification, however, we need to make an economic assessment: what investment is necessary for electrification, and will there be sensible climate policy not only in a purely Norwegian setting, but in a European climate policy? There may also be many other reasons for implementing measures in the quota sector, which include: innovation and triggering innovation that will have an impact on Norwegian business also in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e561	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e566	My question also goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment, and it's in the same street. Last week, there were new negotiations on the Paris Agreement in Bonn – the Paris Agreement that was in place in 2015, and as an international agreement is impressive. I also feel that this is progress in the negotiations. However, the problem with the agreement is that everyone knows that it is not strong enough, and does not contain enough commitments to achieve the 2 degree global warming target. And even worse: Last week, the Global Carbon Project came up with an assessment of the emissions for 2017 that shows that emissions are increasing by 2 pst. globally, after three years where there has been a relatively flat trend in emissions reduction. The year to come will be very important in the development of the Paris Agreement in order to establish a new agreement in 2018. There will also be an assessment from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change on what it means to achieve the 1.5 degree target. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: How does he understand Norway's role in this process in the future towards 2018 to provide a basis for strengthening the Paris Agreement and strengthening the commitments made by the countries in the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e575	It's true, as Elvesuen says, that next year will be very important to make the Paris Agreement a reality. It has entered into force, but the legislation will be put in place, and not least the mechanism to increase ambitions in order to achieve the 2 degree target and the 1.5 degree target will be very important. Norway plays an active role. We are a country that has confidence in many camps in the climate negotiations. At the climate negotiations in Bonn, there was only one question that was raised to ministerial level, because very much was about technical issues. The issue raised at ministerial level was asked Norway to deal with. This is an example of Norway’s confidence in broad circles. We also put a lot of emphasis in Bonn on supporting Fiji, which now has the presidency, in their approach to the dialogue on increased ambitions. It will be very important in the coming year. There was resistance from several to their arrangements. We kept on that line that this was not something that should be negotiated or negotiated away, Fiji's arrangements would be approved, and that was also implemented. This means that through 2018, the dialogue on how the world will increase ambitions based on the 1.5 degree climate panel report will take place. It will be important and Norway will be active in it. We also focus on – and will now give priority to – how we will interact with the Polish Presidency. It is a well-known fact that in European climate policy, Poland has not always been in the driver’s seat. Poland is the leading country next year. The foreman country is of great importance, and we attach great importance to getting into good dialogue with them on how to facilitate good results at the climate summit in a year's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e584	The world must sharpen its objectives and do much more. The strength of the Paris Agreement is that it is a bottom-up agreement that must mobilise all Member States at all levels. It also requires Norway to review its commitments to strengthen our objectives towards 2030 and beyond. Then my question is: How do the Councils of State view the process, and in what areas can Norway strengthen its objectives and its efforts towards a new agreement, which will enter into force by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e591	It is at the climate summit in 2020 that countries are to report their new climate targets and therefore also their increased ambitions. How it's going to happen will be an important discussion, as I said, over the next year. There's no doubt that increased ambitions are needed for the world globally if we're going to reach the 2 degree goal, even more if we're going to meet the 1.5 degree goal. Norway is clearly in the forefront of this, with our goal, together with the EU, and it will be important towards 2020 to help more people raise their ambitions much more. Of course, the largest emitters are the most important. That's why it becomes important for us to see what we can do to increase our ambitions, but how we do it will also be important to help others do it, because in global climate policy it means a lot more what China reports in 2020 than what Norway does. If we can do something that will stimulate more countries to compete in a good way to increase ambition, it will be the most important thing we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e596	It opens for follow-up questions – first Jon Gunnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e601	Before the weekend, it was known that Norway’s Bank has requested that the oil fund be allowed to withdraw from investment in oil and gas companies, because the exposure to such shares is financially uncertain. It is something that the Left has pointed out for a long time, but it is obviously a paradox that the oil fund does not consider it appropriate to invest in oil. Between the lines there is a clear link between the economic risk and the additional climate risk. The fact that there is a significant climate risk due to high exposure to oil and gas has been pointed out several times by the Minister of Climate Change, but without having been listened to in particular by new permits on Norwegian soil, especially in vulnerable areas in the north. My question to the Minister for Climate and Environment is: What does he think in a climate perspective about Norway's Bank's request to let the oil fund sell out of oil and gas companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e608	The issue raised by the Bank of Norway is a major issue. It has many sides, and therefore the government is going to deal with it in a thorough and good way. There are practices for all important road choices in the management of the SPU, the State pension fund abroad. I expect Gunnes to agree that this is an important option. This is why the Norwegian government’s overall assessment of the Norwegian economy will take a broad view of this issue. The Bank of Norway assumes the oil price risk from its assets. We have even discussed the vulnerability of a permanent fall in revenue from oil and gas, based on Norway’s national wealth, and evaluated a broad range of instruments there. Norway’s Bank takes a slightly different starting point than we do in the perspective notification. They only look at one instrument: the sale of shares in the oil and gas sector. That is why – it is the Ministry of Finance that is leading this process – we are now going to gather further information and to brief the Stortinget in order to present a conclusion in the autumn of 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e615	Espen Barth Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e621	The government has recently reduced a sample to assess the climate risk for the Norwegian economy, which is an action I would like to warmly welcome. The selection shall also develop a methodology for managing climate risk in Norwegian enterprises and institutions. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State can confirm that the main task of this sample is to test Norway's business model, i.e. to assess how, as a nation, we can develop our income base and our nutrient base in a world that actually reaches the climate goals of Paris?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e628	I guess it's better that the sample suggests how we're going to make sure that we have regular stress tests in the Norwegian economy, than that the sample is going to stress us once and for all, because this is a long-term question, and that's a question that's important. We have addressed ourselves the question of the risk in the perspective communication, and we have put down this sample in order to get a better basis for information for both the public and the private. It's the whole Norwegian economy that's the theme here. The selection will provide a basis for better assessments of the climate risk of key choices in Norwegian policy in the future, not once for all, when the sample submits its report next December.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e633	Sandra Borch - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e638	As one of the world's most commodity producing oil and gas nations, we also have a responsibility in concrete climate action. The achievement of full-scale carbon capture and storage is essential for the world to achieve its climate objectives in 2030 and 2050. Norway has been a leading country in its efforts in this area, and our efforts have created enormous international interest. CO 2 management is also one of the five priority areas in the Norwegian climate policy. In line with this, valuable chains have been created from the capture of the three plants Norcem, Klemetsrud and Yara and the investigation of storage solutions on the base. The government's draft budget has created considerable uncertainty about the projects under way. There is a great deal of concern that if the appropriations are not continued, we will not reach our climate commitments. How does the Council of State view that CCS projects are now being put on hold by the government's draft budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e648	There is no doubt that Norway’s CCS bet has attracted considerable international attention and interest. This is also true of the less fortunate experiences we've had, with high ambitions having the crash country. We are very concerned that we should not repeat the attention-creating business. That is why we have followed an industrial process of concept studies of capture, transport and storage. We will have these concept studies in a short time. In addition, Statoil has completed storage concept studies until June 2018. These conceptual studies will provide us with a better understanding of the risks of the various projects and an overall picture of the state's costs and risks. We are concerned that industry actors can also, based on those reports, clarify what they are willing to take from the share of costs and risks. Therefore, it is proper that we now wait for them before we make a decision on further running. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e655	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e660	The Minister for Climate and Environment has been concerned with climate risks and has participated in a selection of them earlier this autumn. The Court’s programme adopted earlier this year reads as follows: Right will ‘require that climate policy risk analyses are carried out in relation to plans for the development and operation of new fields’. This is in the field of oil policy. Will the Council of State take the initiative to carry out such a climate risk analysis in the context of Johan Castberg development, which will come to Stortinget in a short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e670	Since the Castberg process is going to the Stortinget, that means it's with the government, and I'm not going to tell you anything about the discussions there. The stoppage even mentioned the Climate Risks Committee. It is an important part of providing us with a basis for highlighting, in concrete processes and projects in the future, climate risk and including – fully integrated – in the decisions taken. This is because it is a difficult reality that an increasingly intensified international climate policy, an accelerated international technology development and the prospect of lower fossil energy values make Norway face risk elements. We need to have a better basis for evaluating them. The Climate Risk Committee will contribute to this. Then that basis must be used in the specific matters in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e677	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e682	State councils are required to stand up. On Friday, it's Black Friday. I don't know what it says about Norwegian culture that we have imported that day and not Thanksgiving. Anyway, the main organisation says that we're going to trade for 3.4 billion. kr that day alone. It's more than anything before. Our material consumption is not resilient. It creates huge amounts of waste. It's a climate problem, and it's also a resource problem, which the government has raised once it's seen the circular economy on the agenda with a big message about waste and the circular economy. Our goal must be that we use our things longer, and that we usually dictate ours to do so again. In the message, the government pointed out how repair can help prevent waste, but there are many examples of how it is much cheaper to buy new than to repair. Seven out of ten Nordics say they would repair their cell phone if it paid off. Then the question is, what kind of government council we can and should do to make sure that repairs are cheaper compared to new purchases, so that more people can repair rather than just buy new ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e693	I believe that the most important thing that can happen here is that the actors in different industries contribute to raising awareness. There we have good dialogue with stakeholders in different fields. We recently launched an industry agreement on food waste, which is the world's most ambitious to bring down food waste. There, the actors themselves will contribute to consumer information. In the case of clothing, which the representative was in, we have started a process of dialogue with the industry about it, and where there is a lot left. One of the questions is how to use clothes longer, and how to help repair them rather than use and throw them. These are important questions because clothing production uses a lot of resources. So it's not that people spend money on Christmas gifts and giving each other attention is something negative. Nor is it that it is necessarily climate-friendly and environmentally friendly to spend more money, but if you buy more expensive and better clothes, they will probably last longer. So I'm very concerned that we shouldn't be moralizing and using indexing mentality. I don't think that's helpful. But interaction around raising awareness of smart consumer choices, I think, is the way to go. The interaction between authorities and industry actors is important. I could mention as an example that there are now large chains – or at least one big chain – that say they won't be participating in Black Friday, and encourage people to repair instead. That's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e705	I thank the Council of State for your answer. He's quite right in much of what he says. Among other things, we see that in the private sector there are major actors who are now working on clearer business strategies, because they are forced to convert into a circular economy. So the state council says we shouldn't use the index finger to be moralizing. I would rather suggest that we use that index finger to point out that maybe the public is forced to play a little bit clearer on layers with the requirements that we can set. There is a great need to increase the competence of what a transition to a circular economy will mean in Norway. We see quite clearly today that there are some things that become consumer goods more often, and we change them more often than we did before. For example, we buy refrigerators twice as often as we did in 1988, and our washing machines we change 50 pst. more frequently than before. These are things that the European Commission is trying to do something about when trying to harmonise the right to return. If Norway is given EU support in order to retain five years’ warranty, will the government be involved in strengthening these schemes, so that the right to return can be valid for five years for more product groups than today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e712	One of the most important things we can do is get an impact on this five-year rule, because manufacturers adapt to public requirements. In fact, with more advanced technology, a two-year requirement for consumer guarantee is being imposed, many manufacturers will adapt to it and almost ensure that products do not last much longer. Therefore, a five-year consumer guarantee is an important priority for us in this EU process. But the public also has other instruments at its disposal. Public procurement is important. We've strengthened the green profile requirements on public procurement. We have made it clear in the law, which came into force on 1 January of this year, that all public purchasers should have a green plan for their purchases – have a strategic approach to this. There are many instruments that can also be used without index fingering.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e719	It opens for follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e724	Several actors have begun to ask questions about whether it is the happy life to consume more. It is a supplier who will arrange a ‘straight and screw day’ this Friday, just to show that it is more important to repair than always to buy a new one. One country after another in Europe has just introduced food laws to reduce food waste. Governments point to it in the circular economy message that the government has made, while the government has said that they had hoped that this message would have been more visionary about the circular economy, similar to that of the other European countries, one by one. My question to the Council of State is: Should not Norway do the same thing and raised the discussion from just dealing with waste to also about something more?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e733	Now was actually the order for the big message that there was to be a big message about waste. We followed up a request decision from Stortinget about it. We wanted to expand the proposal for that waste notification by inserting it into a circular economy context. But it's not a message about the entire circular economy model. There we have a very important EU process going on, which will be of great importance. However, we come up with measures in the communication, as increased requirements for sorting out, and in addition to the food waste agreement, we also warn about cooperation with the textile industry to provide more of a circular economy approach there as well. But the message's starting point was the waste industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e738	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e743	There's a lot of waste interests here, and there's a lot of problems to address, but especially with regard to marine littering, I think it's incredibly important that we lift ourselves up and go ahead, not least in a circular economic context. Norway is a port with great competence in both marine and maritime nutrition, energy, etc., but we should also be the nicest port to handle marine litter. Then I'm not just thinking about preventing things from happening or cleaning up or collecting things, but we're also looking at how we can handle the waste that we find. The Council of State has mentioned earlier that the EU and the UN have a great responsibility here, but I want a more offensive response from the Council of State on how we, Norway, take on the leadership trough. What do we do in Norway to actually improve this, both nationally and internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e752	Norway has been at the forefront of this for several years. We have led the work and initiatives of the United Nations Environment Assembly to put in place decisions there to strengthen international efforts. At the large sea conference in Malta earlier this autumn, I arranged for the world to have a zero vision for the introduction of plastic into the sea. Now that we are moving towards a new United Nations Environment Assembly in December, we have put on the table a proposal for a decision that the world should now join forces to work towards a strengthened international architecture in order to deal with this. But we also work very systematically at home. We have given the Environment Directorate a number of assignments, including: to look at the possibility of replacing rubber cullet with more environmentally friendly alternatives for artificial grass webs. That was November 1st. We have commissioned the Environment Directorate to look into whether the car tyre return system can also be used for rubber cullet on artificial grass tracks. We have given a similar assignment to cinematographic producers for sewage treatment plants, free submission of marine waste in ports, etc. – a number of actions with clear deadlines that we have given to the Environment Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e759	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e764	Plastic is important in the everyday life of most of us, and I would like to point to the government's waste notification and green competitiveness strategy, which states that we need measures that strengthen demand for recycled material as a key to creating a circular economy. The Environment Directorate, in advance of the revised national budget in 2016, assessed a proposal for a material tax and wrote the following: there is a great need for instruments to strengthen the secondary commodity market. A material charge reduced by the content of secondary raw material in drinking packaging will have a positive effect on the secondary commodity market. They also wrote: Analyses have shown that increased use of secondary raw materials has significant positive effects on greenhouse gas emissions and energy use for plastics compared to the use of virgin raw material. The question is: does the Council agree with its own subject matter that increased use of recycled material in plastic bottles will have significant positive environmental effects?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e775	I agree with the Environment Directorate and have a very good dialogue with the Environment Directorate on how we can contribute to enhancing recycling within the waste system. Clear political leadership is very important, among other things. the requirement for zoning that we have on the stairs, which the Environment Directorate is now preparing. We have also just received proposals from the Environment Directorate on increased bottle caps, following a mission I gave them earlier this year. The bottle cap has not been increased in 25 years or anything like that. It is clear that incentives for people to pledge more will also give the market a clear signal that good recycling systems are important. We have a good waste industry, which interacts well with government requirements, and I think we're going to see more of it in the plastic field in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e781	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e786	A circular economy is about reusing resources, and it's absolutely necessary to solve the major environmental problems we're facing. Waste food and plastic materials are valuable resources that can be exploited better. Food waste can become valuable biogas and fertilisers, and plastic waste can be used to produce new plastic products. Nevertheless, only less than half of the Norwegian food waste and only one third of the plastic waste is recycled today. The Environment Directorate proposed in January this year to require municipalities and business operators to sort and recycle food and plastic waste. My question is, When will the Minister for Climate and Environment take the initiative to impose such a requirement on municipalities and economic operators?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e793	Increased sorting requirements have been assigned to the Environment Directorate, so it will. It is also the case that, with the EU circular economy process, we expect increased recycling requirements, which will also be binding on Norway. So it's coming, and this is the industry well aware of, so we're assuming that they're now adding up to adapt to the new requirements. As far as cooking is concerned, with the industry agreement we have concluded, which covers the whole chain from food producers to consumers, we will achieve a reduction in food waste of at least 50 pst. by 2030. We already see a lot of good action from the actors in that agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e800	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e805	There are important issues, how we reduce the amount of waste, and in recent years we have made special efforts to reduce the amount of waste in marine sewage and plastics in the sea, and there we need to step up our efforts. In the Norwegian Sea comes 50 pst. of the amount of waste from shipping and further north it is up to 80 pst. It is MARPOL that regulates this and in 2013 Norway was sentenced in ESA to not have done enough to reduce marine pollution from shipping. Then my question is, here we have a great potential to do a lot of work, but it has to be systematized. How does the Council of States see that, under the MARPOL agreement, we are going to reduce plastic waste and marine waste in the Norwegian Sea and northwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e812	The new grant schemes that have been launched already have a lot to do, including: schemes such as ‘Fishing for Litter’. But we also stress that we need a more systematic approach, and that is also the basis for the establishment of an oil and environmental centre in the Lofoten/Western Sea, where marine pollution will be a central task. They shall not deprive different actors of responsibility, but they will contribute to increased coordination, helping different actors to know where to turn in order to clarify both what is legislation and what is available to them, in order to strengthen their response to marine pollution. It's a total of 27 million. kr to the centre in 2018, and it is going to be an important player in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e817	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e822	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The Storting believes that the main objective of the Norwegian agricultural policy should be to increase Norwegian food production on Norwegian resources. In a country where we have a scarce soil resource, which is scattered by our mountains and fjords, we are therefore totally dependent on farming of varying sizes throughout the country. That's just how we can use our grass and grazing resources to produce and increase food production on Norwegian resources. Therefore, milk production in districts is essential in order to achieve the objectives adopted in this room. It requires that we use the positive force of our democracy, make active, conscious choices, and not least have a clear and clear view of the distribution of jobs, production and values. The practical policy that the Stortinget wants is thus in stark contrast to the policy of the Minister of Agriculture’s own party, the Progress Party, which is pushing forward market liberalism in food. The question we need to answer in this Chamber is therefore: can the Minister of Agriculture guarantee that the government will pursue a policy in line with the wishes and objectives of the Norwegian food policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e833	One might probably owe Norwegian agriculture for different, but that's particularly market-liberalistically oriented, I think is a claim that few will recognize themselves in. Norwegian agriculture is thoroughly regulated. Through the agricultural agreement, a set of tools are used to promote both regional smoothing, smoothing in size of production and smoothing between different geographical areas. It helps to ensure that an agricultural sector is realistically oriented towards agricultural support schemes, but it also helps to ensure that we have an agricultural sector throughout the country. The government submitted before the elections a big message on Norwegian agricultural policy. The Storting has dealt with the message, made a compromise, and it will naturally follow up the government. But there's reason to remind the Workers' Party that food production is higher now than when the Workers' Party last ruled. Fewer farmers now stop than when the Labour Party ruled. Food production is higher than ever. Investment in Norwegian agriculture is rising and not declining. Less area is out of operation than when the Workers' Party was in charge. So I think the direction that the government has taken along with the cooperation party in the previous period, is consistently good for Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e840	The question was precisely the difference between the bulk of the population and the Minister of Agriculture’s own party, the Progress Party. And it is true that in Norway with the Norwegian model, we have made an active choice by using the policy, so it is in contrast to the market liberalism of the Progress Party. But the crucial thing for today's debate is whether the Minister of Agriculture can guarantee that he will follow up decisions taken in this Chamber. In June the following was adopted: ‘The government is asked to promote compensatory measures for the loss caused by producers in the event of the loss of market shares resulting from agreements concluded under Article 19 of the EEA Agreement and the phasing-out of export subsidies’. We have not seen anything like this in the State budget, and why has the Minister of Agriculture not followed up on the decision taken in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e850	I have. If you read the budget paper from the Ministry of Agriculture, you will see that we point to several measures that we have taken on the regulatory side to bring. milk production is more in line with the forecasts we have for milk production in the phase-out of export aid in 2020. However, compensating for incomes that agriculture has not yet lost is a rather special approach to policy. That is what I feel the representative is now taking up the floor. This is not how the call decision can be understood. It's about what to do in 2020. My main objective, at least, is not to lose market shares, that we should not lose production opportunities, in Norwegian agriculture. I simply intend to follow up the main goal of the Workers' Party, simply to ensure that there are production possibilities. We must then continue to focus on Norwegian agriculture, and we must strengthen competitiveness. Then, when we get to 2020, we can assess what the situation is. But compensating for the loss of schemes that you haven't lost is a special approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e856	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e861	Whether or not the State Council intends to follow the wishes and expressions of the Storting in agricultural policy is essential to clarify. Therefore, the analysis and the answer to this question of using own resources in the follow-up to food production was a very important question, to which the Council of State did not respond. However, in order to be clear on the last question: After the government in June very clearly asked the government in the draft state budget for 2018 to promote compensatory measures for the losses caused by producers, no action has been promoted in the state budget for 2018. The decision has not been followed up, so talking about 2020 in this context becomes too stupid – it becomes unprofessional – given the fact that the government has been imposed and the council has actually received from the Stortinget. That is why I am now asking very clearly: how – and when – the government will follow up on what the Stortinget imposed on the government in June 2017 to promote compensatory measures for the loss caused to producers in the event of a loss of market shares, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e870	We cannot compensate for the loss of market shares you have not lost. That's the whole starting point for the government here. And I believe that the Stortinget also believes that when one has said that the main goal of Norwegian food production is increased production, we should first see if we can exhaust that possibility and strengthen our own production potential for years to come. Then it is that the Article 19 Agreement, to which the call for proposals were addressed, has not been ratified in the EU. There are no increased imports, there are no withdrawals of production possibilities based on the Article 19 Agreement in 2018. And when export subsidies are involved, it is phased out in 2020. So the call decision is fulfilled by regulatory action and notified to the Stortinget in the budget paper. That the Labour Party should now want another follow-up, is allowed, but to claim that it is not fulfilled, there is no basis for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e879	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e884	When I hear the councillor's list of boasts, I think, here's owls in the swamp. As the Council of State may know, this is an expression we have imported from Denmark, where the original meaning is: wolves in ants. We have heard earlier in Question Time that the government is very busy having wolves in Norway. Now I'm going to deal with the issue of ants, because the Council of State pretends that he's very busy making arrangements for farmers who want to bet and develop the garden, but it's a proposal from the Council of State that a general ban on the cultivation of ants, which will greatly limit the possibilities of developing Norwegian gardening. Then my question is: does the Council of State think that it is a good idea to have a general ban on the cultivation of ants, when the goal is to increase Norwegian food production?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e891	The President perceives that this is a bit on the side of the question, but leaves it to the Council of State to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e896	This is the whole thing inside -- it just shows what kind of opposition government has to do, because the first question is what I should do to follow up the decision of the Storting, and the follow-up question is what I should do not follow up the decision of the Storing. Because the Storting has ordered a ban on the cultivation of ants. This shows that someone's grouped opposition is at least we're not dealing with it. The proposal for a ban on the breeding of bogs will have implications for Norwegian agriculture. This has also been sent on the phone, and it has been suggested that there should be an exceptional shelter in a special case. We're now going through hearing statements and we're going to come back again, based on that. But this is probably a good example of the fact that the Council of State actually follows up the requirements of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e903	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e917	There will be a change in the set question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in the salap. The change was as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Geir Pollestad to the Minister for Industry, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e929	«Such Socialist Left Party and several media see it, the Council of State does not answer the question I asked him on 31 October 2017 about the railway in Buskerud, when he refers to an investigation by Bane NOR from 28 July 2016. That's why I'm asking again: Can the Council of State refer to the existing investigation, or will he take the initiative for an investigation, of the possibility of two trains per hour as a base route between Drammen and Kongsberg on existing single tracks and what will this require of adaptations and costs, where the Drammen-Hokksund route is considered in particular?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e942	I record that the representative is not satisfied with the answer I gave, but let me remind you that the question I received was: ‘Can the Council of State indicate whether he will take the initiative in an investigation into what is required for the development and investment of the route in question in order to get two trains per hour between Drammen and Kongsberg, if not already available?’ In my written reply, I refer to the railway station's investigation of the route from Hokksund to Kongsberg in 2016, where the need for infrastructure to drive two regional trains per hour to and from Kongsberg was assessed. So there's an investigation that's been ordered in that area. I believe that someone has taken care of what was asked. If the representative was actually concerned with the measures on the Drammen–Hokksund section, i.e. the other part of the route, which is not currently being investigated, he would have liked to have specified that on the question. It surprises me that he does not take into account that it is a Railway Works investigation of the train offer just against Kongsberg. It has been lying on the pages of Bane NOR since April 2016 and has been well covered by local press. But let me be very clear on what has been done by investigations of this route, both by Drammen-Hokksund and by Hokksund-Kongsberg. In a letter from the Ministry of Transport of 8 May 2015 to the Directorate of Road and the Railway Agency, with a copy to the County Municipality of Buskerud, on the follow-up to the KVU/KS1 for a possible Busker urban package 2, there is one example. that, in the first instance, railway measures are relevant on the route between Drammen and Hokksund and that on the railway between Hokksund and Kongsberg further investigation will be carried out before, where appropriate, regular planning will take place. On that basis, Bane NOR has worked with a municipal sub-plan – quite concretely, better than an investigation, I would say – for exactly double tracks Gulskogen–Hokksund. The plan was for public review this summer, i.e. the summer of 2017, and is planned to be sent to the municipalities for second reading in a very short time. The railway directorate has informed that Bane NOR will include an assessment of the step-by-step development of double tracks and the possibility of gradual increase of train frequency from one to two trains per hour as a base route between Gulskogen and Mjøndalen/Hocksund in the basis for the establishment of this municipal sub-plan. This will provide a basis for assessing the measures that need to be implemented on existing single tracks between Gulskogen and Hokksund in order to increase train provision to two trains per hour. I don't think there's any sense in a new investigation of it, that's what was the question, because we're already at the municipal level. As regards the investigation of the Hokksund-Kongsberg route, it includes the assessment of strategies for the development of a train offer further towards Kongsberg, following the completion of any action on the Drammen-Hokksund route. As the representative has probably read in the investigation, among the assessed concepts there are no cheap solutions that allow a frequency of two regional trains and a distance train/freight train per hour to Kongsberg, without large investments. This government is now undertaking a historic railway operation. We don't think there's any sense in implementing new rapes where we've already done them. That's what was the original question from the representative, which I answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e966	I thank you for your answer. The investigation referred to by the Council of State in its written reply – and now – only investigated the option of double track between Hokksund and Kongsberg, with the exception of single track, with no target of two trains per hour and a completely new trajectory option on that route. So that plan did not answer my question. On the Gulskogen–Hokksund section, Bane NOR now works with the municipality plan, to which the council refers, alternative routes for double tracks. It is also not known here whether it is possible to introduce a two-train-hour base route, with moderate adjustments and costs. The project manager, Randi Mona, informs us that the project also looks at possibilities for a step-by-step development of this route. They look at different concepts that can involve the construction of double tracks on the whole or part of the distance. A lot indicates that they now have the same thoughts as me. Will the Council not then contact Bane NOR and adjust the mission towards what I am asking for?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e977	What the government is working on is building a better railway. It means in many places that there are double tracks that are necessary, because the traffic is so close and the frequency so high that something else would be unreasonable. At other places, long crossing tracks can be the solution. The better or the cheaper one manages to achieve the overall goals, the more likely it is to be done quickly. That's some of the approximation we have. When a double-track investigator doesn't necessarily mean that it ends up with, because the goal of the entire intercity bet must be to look at what frequency we want to achieve – which train departures, how frequent. That's what the audience is busy about. If the trains go physically on double tracks or on single tracks, I do not think we as passengers are occupied with. It's about what's possible for those planning the railway, i.e. the work of the Directorate of Railways. In the work that Bane NOR has, it's not necessarily that you end up with double tracks, but that's some of what you're investigating. And then it's going to be making the best practical approaches to it. I really don't think we're so very disagreeable, even if the debate gives the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e982	I thank you again for the answer. I think maybe we don't agree on the goal either. Nor is it a shame to turn around or to find new solutions for roads where there are constructive solutions in another direction. My proposal was just an attempt to find such a constructive solution. There are very many people who are concerned about it in the lower Busherud, this is a cross-political question. Then again, my question to the Council of State if I have understood correctly, is that there are only double tracks in the mandate. If it is not, that there is also the intrusion of single tracks in the mandate to Bane NOR, I would like an answer to that, because it is very important. And it's very important that the council then give signals to Bane NOR, who's sitting with the municipal planning now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e991	Our approach to the development of the railway is that we're going to build from the inside out. Then you can quickly get the best offer possible. By 2024, with the intercity expansion to the Vestfoldbanen, there will also be double tracks to Gulskogen. In connection with the municipal sub-plan work done by Bane NOR, one will find out what is needed by the measures to get two trains per hour to Hokksund. If that means you have to have double tracks, that's what you're working on. If that means that one can use single tracks, but with long crossing tracks, that's what we end up with. I am dedicated to getting high frequency and good predictability, but also to fixing as much as possible. That means we have to control the costs. Although under today's government we have a rail budget for 2018 that is over 9 billion. kr higher than when we took over, that does not mean that we have so much money that we can build more expensive solutions than we strictly need. I'm very pleased with what I see here as SV's approach, that it's functionality you're concerned with, not the name of the infrastructure itself. We don't build double tracks, unless you need it. But we're going to have a long-term perspective on what is the actual need.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1005	This question must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has departed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1013	‘The grant scheme concerns conflict mitigation measures in municipalities with wolfevir. Subsidies legislation of 27 June provides that municipalities are free to dispose of the grant and are to choose their own actions. The municipality of Trysil applied for grants to investigate the genetic and geographical origin of the wolf, inter alia, because knowledge and research are considered to be anti-conflict but were rejected. Does the Council of State consider that he is better qualified to assess what will be anti-conflict in Trysil than the City Council in Trysil?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1020	The short answer is no. I am convinced that the City Council in Trysil is well qualified and better than I am to assess what might be a counterbalance in Trysil, but that is not the main point in this case. What is at stake is that the municipality's application does not fall within the scope of this grant scheme. The purpose of the grant scheme, to which the representative is entitled, is to contribute to conflict mitigation in municipalities with wolfevir. The Government has wanted to be flexible in the use of funding from the grant scheme. That is why there is a broad framework for the scheme. Municipalities have great freedom to choose for themselves what to spend the money for, and thus find good solutions for their own citizens. But it is not that it is clear what the money can be used for. It can't be like this. Any government grant scheme obligation to specify the use to which the grants are to be used. The Ministry’s guidelines for the grant scheme show that the scheme focuses on concrete actions in the community that directly benefit and act in a positive way. Measures without such concrete and direct utility are initially out of the scheme. Furthermore, it follows from the guidelines that the use of the money by municipalities should be factually linked to the burden of having a wolfevir, for example. aid to landowners who consider that they have been reduced their hunting incomes as a result of wolves, support for business development, transport, physical measures to make citizens safer where they wish, support for sport and activities to compensate for the lack of use of forests and land, for example. Accordingly, the application for grants for the examination of the genetic and geographical origin of the wolf falls clearly outside the scope of the scheme. I can also draw the attention of the representative to the fact that the government has launched a new independent genetic investigation of the wolf tribe in Norway. The first phase of that work has already been completed this year. The second phase is published by the Environment Directorate during the year. It would therefore not be appropriate to use public funds to finance a municipal investigation on the same topic in addition to the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1033	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. But now it is such that the municipalities have complied with a grant code dated 27 June 2017 and entered into force on 1 July 2017. The wording of the grant law was as follows: ‘Communities shall decide for themselves which conflict-reduction measures are to be financed. The municipality is free to make use of the grant and choose action.’;» The deadline for applying was 1 October 2017, and the municipality of Trysil – and other municipalities as well – submitted their application before the deadline. The guidelines referred to here by the Council of State are guidelines that came in a letter to the Environment Directorate from the Ministry of Climate and Environment on 10 October 2017, i.e. after the deadline had expired. Is it the case that the Council of State has changed since he saw what measures were applied for? And is it such to understand that the Council of State fears the outcome of such a study as Trysil wants to carry out and therefore chose to introduce restrictive guidelines after the deadline for application?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1045	I was asked by the Environment Directorate to clarify, and the starting point for this whole scheme is a request decision from the Stortinget, which the Stortinget has actually called for in several rounds, where the purpose of the Stortinget has clearly been action for people in the wolf zone, for municipalities with wolves. That's what I've been very busy following, and it wasn't that hard for me to explain to the Environment Directorate how this grant scheme was to be understood. Municipalities have the freedom to choose actions under the grant scheme and when they receive grants, to use them. But what Stortinget's decision has been made, and what they've asked for, is a grant intended to benefit people. At the same time, Stortinget has asked the government for an independent genetic investigation, and we have started it. We're really dealing with that, and there's no need for a separate municipal investigation on the exact same topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1052	Many municipalities chose not to apply for the scheme at all because the scheme itself was found to be so conflict-making. However, some municipalities found that the only thing they could see as a mitigation of conflict was such an investigation, and therefore chose to apply for the scheme. Here it looks as if the Council of State first reaches out a hand and offers money for conflict-reduction measures, because then in the next turn say: wait a minute, you only get money if you agree to our premises, namely if you find yourself in permanently lost hunting incomes, if you accept reduced use of forest and land, if you accept that there is less security in the community with the wolf counting around the house wall. I find it critical that the Council of State is trying to buy out municipalities affected by wolves in this way, and at least when he cannot give them the freedom to decide the measures they themselves want. My question is: Is it the case that the Council of State will only finance measures if the applicants accept the premise of the wolf management in Norway, that there is a disproportionate burden to be borne by the wolf zone administration and the absence of wolf evisceration in the wolf zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1061	What has been important to me is to follow up the Storting's premises and the Storting's clear request decision, among other things. on a grant scheme. If I don't remember correctly, the Center Party has also supported that decision. And then I've been committed to following up the second important request decision of the Storting, namely a study of the genetic and geographical origin of the wolf. When it is under way, while the Storting's assumption is that the grant scheme applies to good actions for people in the wolf zone, this was not a difficult issue. The municipalities have applied for a wide range of measures, and I can mention some examples of measures supported by the scheme: strengthening of municipal wildlife funds, compensation for hunters with lost hunting incomes, lost grazing income, support for predators, dissemination of knowledge to schools, farmers and hunters, protection vests for hunting dogs, business development and other anti-conflict measures. Some municipalities have applied for alternative genetic studies, but also other measures, and have received grants for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1071	«From 2018, the government proposes changes to the public-health health care system for dental treatment after entry 14. It shall no longer be possible to cover the costs of dental treatment for patients with tooth fright/odontophobia. This is a very vulnerable and vulnerable group of patients, who from New Year’s onwards are without a real treatment provision. Why was this big change not sent to the audience, and will the Council reverse this tightening for patients with severe dental anguish?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1078	I will first conclude that patients with severe dental distress or odontophobia will not receive a weaker offer from New Year's. In a request decision of March 2008 – in the context of the examination of St.melding. No 35 for 2006–2007, Future dental services — the government was asked to establish an offer for this patient group. Such an offer is now under the control of the county councils and this offer is not weakened in the state budget. On the contrary, we propose to strengthen the offer by 10 million. kr. Public health benefits scheme for self-employed persons – entry point 14 – has a different target group than those with dental concerns or odontophobia. The target population is persons with permanent diseases and disabilities who need assistance to carry out daily oral care. Psychiatric and somatic diseases are included. There must be a declaration by a doctor or psychologist on permanent illness, i.e. that the disease also goes far beyond the implementation of dental treatment. The changes made to the 2008 social welfare scheme were that dentists and patients would no longer apply to the social security scheme on their own form and obtain prior approval of the treatment proposal. The use of entry point 14 by private dentists has quadrupled in three years – from 58 million. SEK in 2013 to SEK 197 million. kr in 2016. Helfo’s control has revealed that there is often a lack of a doctor’s or a psychologist’s statement and that the dentist himself specifies dental anxiety/odontophobia as a permanent disease. I'm not happy with that. Control of the scheme is necessary. Helfos analysis and controls clearly indicate that dentists are subject to conditions far beyond the purpose of this scheme. That is why, in my view, a correct and necessary adjustment we are now making. The aim is to bring dental practice into line with regulatory intentions. This is also the reason why the changes have not been sent to the hearing. For patients with severe dental distress or odontophobia, we currently have a special offer through cooperation between the odontological centres of excellence and the county municipalities. These patients usually need psychological treatment to get rid of odontophobia before dental treatment can begin. They also need dentists with special skills in odontophobia. I will follow closely the development of the consequences of the clarifications we are now making. Should an extended offer be made to patients with dental frights who do not have a underlying disease, this is among other things. a discussion that is part of the sample that is now working on priorities in the municipal health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1095	Thanks for the answer. It can be discussed whether there is a strengthening of the supply of this group when a distanced the opportunity to have this partly paid through entry 14 of the social security scheme to the population and when the government itself budgets for a 30 million savings. kr. These are extremely vulnerable patients, and it is wrong to believe that all of them will be able to enter a competence centre when they are refused treatment with their local dentist, with whom they have made contact. I think it's special that a claim that dental abuses the benefit system, and answers by taking away the whole scheme. Hasn't the Council considered making precision in what is needed to remove the benefit, instead of removing the whole scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1102	The representation of the representative is not correct. The regulatory regime for which a regulation is clarified was not intended as a regime for patients with odontophobia. It's a development that you've made in the service, and that's not a claim from me, but that's a result of a review that Helfo has done. It is quite obvious that it was not the intention of Stortingen to deal with patients with odontophobia, because the change – which was made in 2008 – that this was something dentists could initiate themselves, was done at the same time as the Stortingen in a request decision requested that a separate offer be established in county municipalities for patients with odontophobia. That offer is now established and strengthened in this State budget. This is a very clear explanation of how the whole scheme was supposed to be. These patients will receive an offer in the county centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1107	You know, it's a weakness when you argue that there's too much money being spent on a system that needs a lot of money, and a cut of $30 million. kr. That doesn't help you to give $10 million. Centre of Competence to deal with all these patients. I'm now reading on Helfo's pages that for odontophobia today there is a system that can be supported within the 14th indent, so it's strange that the Council of State is making it as if this is a scheme that doesn't exist. The system applies today, and it is now being removed by this government. Odontophobia is a diagnosis. As I understand it, he's a doctor or a psychologist. Obviously, these people have a disease that is long-lasting until he is treated, like many others, and they are unable to get satisfying oral care and dental care daily. Will the State Council reconsider its position on this in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1116	It is clear that odontophobia is a disease, but in order to receive support under the scheme within entry 14, it depends on the fact that one also has a long-standing disease at the back that lasts after the dental treatment has been completed. The provision to patients with odontophobia — even where it does not exist — shall be provided in the now strengthened offers. The representative must be aware that this is also a strengthening of the protection of the offer, because if patients with odontophobia are currently being treated by private operators under point 14 of the scheme, they pay the significant proportions, while the offer is free where the offer was intended to be given – what is now being strengthened – namely through county municipalities. It will actually provide a better and cheaper offer for these patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1124	‘Health South-East RHF entered into an agreement in 2013 with the US supplier Carestream to install an X-ray computer system at all the 35 hospitals in the region by the end of 2016. The Hospital Inland HF was selected as a pilot hospital, and after repeated delays, parts of the X-ray data system were implemented in 2016. The total annual extra costs of SI amount to approximately NOK 15 million. Is it Health South-East RHF or Hospital Homeland that has to cover the extra costs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1131	Health South-East has informed the Ministry of Health and Welfare that the regional radiology project was launched in the region in the spring of 2013. The aim is to establish a common radiology system for all health establishments in Health South-East. A common system will allow the sharing of images and related information between health businesses. This means that healthcare professionals can cooperate across health businesses, and the patient will often avoid taking the same study several times. The Hospital Inland was chosen as the first healthcare company for the new solution. However, the piloting has proved to be far more demanding than intended. In particular, it has been challenging to establish the administrative part of the system, because this part requires extensive adaptations to the other systems of the individual health care provider. This applies, inter alia, to: Time booking, logistics, picture descriptions, activity reporting coding, etc. Here, problems have been identified with the solution itself, but also with how it works with the other systems used at the Inland Hospital. Health South-East shall review its ICT projects. They will then assess schedules and resource use to ensure that the overall ICT portfolio can be implemented and realised within an acceptable level of risk. It is important that the region succeeds in establishing common solutions across health businesses. The Ministry has been informed that Health South-East and Hospital Inland are in dialogue on economic conditions. Health South-East suggests that an overall assessment is to be made based on the disadvantages of the work carried out in the project on the health business. I understand with this that Health South-East is now open to the healthcare company being compensated for extra costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1142	I perceive that the intention in the acquisition is good, but it has led to significant challenges in the implementation of the new X-ray computer system. There are many more questions raised in the light of the case we have had about outsourcing and acquiring a larger ICT system, through which Health South-East has been through, and which has something to do with the mandate between Hospital Partner and Health South-East – there is one question that arises. Another question is that we seem to have a Health Norway divided into four in terms of digitisation, and where Health South-East seems to be going a completely separate way compared to the other three regional health businesses. It's also a big challenge. But concretely for the X-ray acquisition: the Riksrevision announced an examination of the acquisition. Does the Council have any thoughts about what it will bring?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1149	I have the general opinion that the National Audit Office's investigations into healthcare are always welcome, because they provide us with new knowledge and insight into areas that can be improved. We have also followed this up, as we have had several other national audit reports related to different ICT projects. I do not feel that Health South-East has chosen its own path in relation to these kinds of questions, but Health South-East has a different story associated with ICT than the other three health regions. It is largely based on the fact that Health South-East started out as two health regions – Health East and Health South – which in their time chose very different strategies in this area. That means that the cleaning job that was done in this area was done in, for example, Health North and Health West, Health South-East started at a significant later time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1156	Thanks for the answer. That clearing job is important, but one can ask questions about whether it is actually done in Health South-East, all the time one still, among other things. is related to 830 databases, while Health West from 2018 is going on a global database structure at least. It says something about a significant difference in approach and development. Back to the original question: the distribution of expenditure is one part. The workload has been significant for those who have passed the implementation process. But if it is now that Health South-East has to terminate a contract on both x-ray systems and ICT systems, it may also have to lead to some economic re-priorities and may put off some investments. Can this have any consequences for the progress of any investment projects in Health South-East?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1163	Firstly, Health South-East is in no way finished with the clearing job. They're in the middle of it. Part of the work they were doing in connection with outsourcing it can be called ICT infrastructure is an essential part of this. The project was suspended, pending the work currently being done in the evaluation of the strategies to be chosen, after a discovery that one in preparation for outsourcing had given access to personnel who would not have had access. It also shows the importance of moving on and getting solutions in place, because this is the foundation too much of the second. Health South-East needs to make large investments in this area. What will be the consequences if any agreements cannot be implemented will have to come back once the board of Health South-East has considered those issues, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1173	‘The Working Party has made a number of proposals on the requirements of religious communities receiving State aid. In VG 14 November 2017, the Minister of Culture commented on the Workers' Party's initiative on requirements for the quotaing of women in the regimes of religious and life-view societies. She explains her rejection that it can cause bureaucracy and that the claim can be circumvented. What is the government's view of demands for women's quota in governments of religious communities?'
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1180	The government is committed to ensuring real determination in religious and life-view societies. The State should not use economic instruments to direct legal activity in its societies. Freedom of worship and religion in Norway is strong, and the government is committed to its strong stand. It is a fundamental human right to preserve people's freedom of belief. Discrimination by gender is prohibited in all areas of society, including religious communities. In order for religious communities to treat men and women differently, it is necessary to comply with the general conditions laid down in the Equality Act. According to the law, women cannot be denied access to purely administrative governing bodies in religious communities. It also underlines the Ministry of Culture in the proposal for a new Law on Creeding and Living Societies, which was sent to the hearing in September this year. We have not proposed a claim for at least 40 pst. representation of women or men in the governing bodies of religious communities, for in many religious communities the administrative bodies have been merged with the bodies dealing with matters of faith and religion. That is why I am also very pleased that the Workers' Party stresses that they will not participate in weakening freedom of belief in Norway. This means that those religious communities that do not have their own administrative bodies need to set up a series of new bodies around the different religious communities, and women will be allowed to sit there – while the Workers' Party does not want to make demands on the established governments of the religious communities, so there will be no change. I have more faith that we should stimulate and contribute to understanding the need to get women into these regimes, but without setting quota requirements and thereby breaking fundamental human rights in Norway. The Right-wing Party Government agrees with the Workers' Party that we should protect freedom of belief. Then we cannot impose quotas on those governments in the religious communities who deal with religious questions. I think it's a little funny if we're going to oblige the religious communities to set up governments in addition, which are just going to deal with issues related to administration, and that these governments are going to be good enough for women to sit in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1189	When Norway, as the first country in the world, introduced gender quotas in government rooms, women represented only 7 pst. by the members of the Management Board of Norwegian Enterprises. Even then many thought this was problematic – yes, some thought it was impossible – and here creative solutions would be found to release these requirements. Much had been tried, but there were no results. There were many geeks who used the same arguments as our Minister of Culture makes today, but only when this hall gave it weight by political decision, did it also yield results. That's exactly why the Workers' Party wants 40 pst. female representation in religious communities. I hear the Minister for Culture says that this discussion is to be taken through the new Law of the Faith and the Vision of Life, but it says this: ‘In the view of the Ministry, a principle should not impose more stringent requirements on the civil society of faith and life for equal treatment on the basis of sex.’ In that case, I believe that there are not sufficiently clear requirements for, for example: Muslim religious communities. I find it sad that the Norwegian Minister of Culture sits in the same booth as religious leaders and imams who say no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1203	I just get a little scared when I hear that the representative from the Workers' Party can compare a government in a company with a religious community. Here we are talking about fundamental human rights. If Norway breaks them, we can get questions about this in the Human Rights Court and be judged for it because we do not respect the fundamental human rights. So there's two different things. The representative must also read the text of the Workers’ Party’s proposal on ‘at least 40 pst. the representation of women in government-managed governing bodies.’;» It's just these boards The Labour Party finds the women good enough to sit in. It is a mistake that the representative of the Workers' Party says they should sit in the boards of the religious communities. If the representative does not have to use the possibility here and now to clarify what the Workers' Party really means, then he is now saying the opposite of what is in the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1212	We live in Norway, and in Norway we have to value equality. Without Norwegian equality values, Norway would not be the amazing country it is. When, for example: For mosques, there are enough ladies there, but the men don't let them go. That is why we in this Chamber are going to adopt clear policies that say something about what values Norway is going to build on, and that within these governments of the religious communities there is going to be female representation. We live in a country where we give money to the religious communities, so that people have the opportunity to practice their own religion. That's good, but then we have to set some demands back. In the Political Quarter of October 24th in a debate with Hadia Tajik, Højre's immigration-political spokeswoman, Kristin Ørmen Johnsen, said in favour of the Workers' Party's initiative on women's quota. Is it so that the Minister of Culture disagrees with his own party in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1221	I also heard that debate, and what the representative Kristin Ørmen Johnsen said was that she was positive about considering action. It's the Right, and it's the Government. We want to look at positive instruments to get more women into the boards. That's why I took the initiative to invite many religious communities to a meeting in ours where we discussed just this: how can we get more women into the religious communities and into their governing bodies? In a few days' time, I once again invite female representatives from all religious communities to come and tell us what is needed to get more women into the government without violating fundamental human rights, which the representative of the Workers' Party is actually calling for us to do. The Labour Party advocates that equality and quotas on this issue are more important than addressing fundamental issues related to freedom of religion and religion. It is almost like this that we have to ask the Workers' Party to clarify what they think about this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1229	‘Referring to the Government’s desire to amend the right of appointment of the grant committees, this right is transferred to the Central Committee for State Artists’ Grants. Now several thousand artists fear that in practice it implies a weakening of democratic processes, and that an unfortunate concentration of power in Norwegian art life will be achieved. On what basis does the Council of State consider it necessary to change the current practice of the right of appointment and will the Council of State take into account the recordings of the artists’ organisations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1236	Over 20 years, large-scale announcements and investigations have been arranged to adjust the right of appointment and the structure of the State Arts Grant. So first of all, let's do something about that. This proposal has been on the table of the Minister of Culture for many years, and I am pleased that we now have a government that is committed to independence and openness and therefore proposes this. I understand that the artists' organisations are not particularly pleased that we depriv them of the decision-making power to appoint their own members to the committees, but for the government, there is consideration for independence, transparency and professional assessments that are the most important in the disposal of the 300 million. kr that the state uses on our artists, especially on narrow and experimental art, for which it is important that we have strong public funding. The artists’ organisations represent 75 pst. by the artists. That means it's 25 pst. which is excluded. The government wants 100 pst. the coverage of grant committees, and therefore the award procedure must be based on artistic competence and peer evaluation alone. It must not be based solely on membership of an artist organisation, as is the case in part and in many artist organisations today. I believe the organisations have too strong a ownership of the scholarship work, and as a representative of the artist network itself said to the magazine Subject on 25 October this year: "It's not our money, but we have a strong ownership of them." It is the community's money that is to be distributed, and I think that we, as the authority, are to be done in an independent and transparent way. For 2018, the government proposes to set aside more than 310 million. kr to the State Artist Grant, and it is important to stress that there are funds granted by the Stortinget. The change in the right of appointment that we are now doing is not a radical change. Organisations shall continue to be allowed to propose who is to sit in the committees. I will continue to listen to the artists' organisations. They shall be involved in the modernisation of the State Artist Grant. The department has made that clear. But we think it's important that we don't get too close a connection between the 24 committees, which are appointed by each of their artists' organisations, and that only those who are supposed to sit and benefit, but that we get a greater interdisciplinary selection of those who are going to sit there. It's for the benefit of the art and the artists.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1252	The Institute for Social Research has demonstrated that 83 pst. artists are pleased with today's grant scheme, where there are democratic processes in the various artists' organisations that select who will be on the scholarship committees. Many committees also often have unorganised artists, and now artists' organisations want to make it clear in the future that unorganised artists are always on the committees they appoint. The Minister for Culture says she should listen, but she does not listen to that proposal. She wants to take this court away from the artists. She will centralize power, which then required a Right-State Council, in this case from 29,000 artists to five people in a political-appointed selection. She won't listen to them either. They point to statistics from the Artist Survey that show that unorganised artists are actually overrepresented as recipients of scholarships. I wonder what kind of figures and statistics the minister leans on when she wants to live today's system, since it's obviously not the numbers that show the degree of satisfaction of artists, and that unorganized artists get scholarships.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1261	It's not right that we centralize power. The entire decision-making authority that the artists' organisations had before is weakened, and I understand that they are responding to it, because they want to appoint their own members. There are some organisations that also appoint others, who are not members, but there are examples that there are some organisations that only appoint their own members to these committees. Then you can question if there's a fair distribution of the 300 million. kr to be distributed and whether all artists have the opportunity to receive scholarships. All artists in Norway shall be able to be evaluated on an equal basis. Questions have been raised, and I think that is unfortunate. So we're doing this for the artists themselves and the art.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1266	There are many questions raised from the opposite side, and we in the Center Party are concerned about the artists in this matter, since the Minister of Culture has chosen a rather confrontational line against those over 75 pst. by those who are organised. She does not choose to listen to them in this matter, nor to take up their constructive proposals. Earlier this week, the Minister of Culture shared with all over the world an article on social media that she describes as a good post. There the artists' main organisation, the Artist Network, was described as the mafia sauced into the slime. Does the Minister of Culture really support such a description of the artists' main organisation, and does she believe that there will be good art and cultural policies to help build confidence between himself and the artists' organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1273	No, I don't think it's a good description of the artists' organisations, not at all, but you can share things on social media without getting completely behind you. I thought it was interesting because there is one voice in the debate that raises another glance. I do not want to say that I have a confrontational line in the debate. I have an honest and open line where I want to discuss how we can get more independence, more transparency and more votes in this debate. When people contact me and say that they have to send me hidden messages on Facebook or Twitter in fear of reactions from the establishment in cultural life, that they don't dare to stand up and support me in an article or by writing on social media, I'm a little worried about the climate of debate that exists in the cultural sector. I want more transparency, and I'm also trying to contribute to it myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1283	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘In the debates on social control, ‘innocent girls’ have stated that when a couple are separated by Norwegian law, some mosques still consider them to be married and follow their own rules to abolish marriages concluded with them and Norwegian authorities. These specific rules provide, inter alia, for: the man much more able to stop and train a divorce. Will the Council of State agree to require all religious communities receiving State aid that divorce under Norwegian law should also be automatically recognised by the religious community?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1292	All religious and life-seeking societies are required to comply with Norwegian law. This means that religious communities are also required to comply with Norwegian legislation on marriage and divorce. Women and men have the same right to choose their spouse. Marriage shall be concluded on its own free will and with its own consent. Among other things, the bridesmaids must: recognise each other’s right to divorce. Furthermore, only the State or the Court of Justice has jurisdiction to provide for separation or divorce under Norwegian law. The Marriage Act is responsible for the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. In the proposal for a new law on religious and life-sight societies, which the Ministry of Culture has developed and which has now been consulted, the government proposes that we clearly underline the duty of religious communities to comply with Norwegian law. Religious or life-viewing societies which commit serious crimes may be refused grants on the basis of the proposal. And the assessments shall pay particular attention to breaches of legal provisions designed to protect the interests of children, infringements of anti-discrimination laws and infringements of provisions designed to prevent any call for hatred or violence. Grants shall also be eligible for reimbursement if a society violates the conditions under which they are granted. In addition, in order to clarify the obligations of the belief and life-view societies, the draft law provides for a separate provision to be made to confirm in writing that those promoting claims for grants are aware of and that they will comply with the conditions for grants. I believe it is going beyond what the Workers' Party proposes in the proposal they have recently promoted, where they want a social contract. By law, we expect that before considering whether to grant to those who wish, apply or promote a claim, they will have to confirm in writing that they are aware of and will comply with the conditions for grants. With that, there is a much stronger commitment than the social contract proposed by the Workers' Party. I also believe that the proposal that is currently being consulted takes care of the matter of the representative of Bohemia. But of course, we will normally evaluate the recordings and answers we get at the hearing before we conclude and come back to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1303	I thank you for your answer. This is an increasingly topical issue. Through the debate, such as: ‘the shameless girls’ have traveled, it has become apparent that more and more Muslim women are making heavy and demanding decisions to resign from marriages arranged and entered into under strong pressure. When they are going out of the religious marriage, it is defined by Sharia laws, and according to them, the man is actually given all the power, the power to refuse divorce – that is, the religious divorce of the mosques – the right to remarry, even if he is not divorced religiously, the opportunity to enter into multiple marriages, etc. If the man doesn't accept it, it's very difficult for the woman to get out of the religious marriage, and it gives her great problems in life if she's still a Muslim. So my question is, is it a difficult assessment to say that sharia laws are not going to apply in Norway, and that you have to comply with Norwegian law – even in mosques?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1310	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Bøhler. We agree that everyone – no matter what religion you belong to – must comply with Norwegian law. We also trust that the community will bring together more skills, so that it will be good to discover this – that it will acquire competence and knowledge and be able to ensure that the religious communities in all areas follow up women’s rights to divorce and that marriage law is followed. In cases where the county becomes aware of violations of the conditions of registration, where leaders or clergymen of religious communities carrying out marriages are neglecting, the religious community and the superior shall be warned and a... Sorry, President! [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1315	I thank you for the additional reply. The Sharia laws that define Muslim marriages give men strong power over women and often lead to exhausting processes for them. They have to go to religious courts in their home country to end marriage, so they continue to live in marriages that can be violent, and that can put women in very difficult situations. The Bosnian mosque in Oslo has implemented a practice, so that in divorce under Norwegian law it is automatic, and a religious marriage depends on its being approved under Norwegian law – that it is also concluded under the law of the Norwegian authorities. In fact, reforms have been carried out in several Muslim countries, but in mosques in Norway there is no doubt as evidenced by ‘the shameless girls’, that many follow the old Sharia laws for Muslim marriages and how they can be abolished. As the Council of State is involved, this is not something that needs to be investigated. It's a fact. [[The President clubs.]] It exists. So taking a stand for this should be okay – I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1324	What has been important to us in the proposal that has now been put to the hearing is to underline and clarify the conditions for support better than today. We also promote the rights and interests of children. Religious communities which commit crimes shall be refused grants, and religious communities which encourage violence, do not respect rights or violate other freedoms shall also lose grants. This will lead to the absence of a religious community in doubt as to the requirements and expectations of the Norwegian authorities and the continuation of a practice that the representative here deserves to take up is one that would lead to the withdrawal of subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1332	I want to ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: «During the debate in the NRK on 13 October this year, the Supreme Council of the Army, Pál B. Nygaard, criticised the government's land authority proposition. Nygaard indicated that the government is doing little more than moving around on soldiers and materials. He thinks the cork is being introduced to new settings or tanks. In the debate, the Minister of Defense said that Nygaard had to go back and read the proposition. Can the Council of State prepare for the Government of Prop. 2 S proposes 200 new settings in the Army, and where in the proposition does this stand?’» [[2017-2018]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1341	I Prop. 2 S, the Land Power Proposition, is set up to increase the annual work of the Army, in particular through a strengthening of the Specialist Corps. Relatively detailed descriptions of the individual departments of the work carried out by the task force investigating the country power are available. However, the Government has not asked the Stortinge to decide on the detailed employment frameworks for the various departments, as this is best resolved within the powers of the Defence Manager. Therefore, the employment framework of the individual unit is not described in the Land Use Proposition. The plans represent a net increase in the number of annual military works of about 200. This increase has been taken into account in the economic framework of the country power during the period. The proposed changes to the Land Power Proposition will further develop the Army's organisation in several areas, in particular related to the establishment of the new air protection capacity in the Artillery Valley, the establishment of a new recruitment and vocational training scheme and the establishment of the Cavalry Battalion in Finnmark. So it's not an explicit statement of 200 positions in the proposition, but it's in the calculations that form the basis of the proposition, and in the changes that the government is proposing for the land power, we're going to increase the number of annual posts in the Army by over 200.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1352	I thank you for your answer. I would argue that it is highly critical of a government council in a direct debate simply to trace the debate by stating that there are 200 new settings in the Army as a fact, because no one in the Stortinget has been given to read what is behind the proposition. Of course, we have no access to this, and we in Stortinget are totally dependent on our work – and it also applies to those who are in the Defence Organisations – to get the right information. So is the Council of State saying that it is highly critical of a Council of State to produce just the wrong facts in such an important debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1359	Both I and the representative Navarsete have been in many debates – many radio debates and many debates in the squares and in the hall here. That in a debate you can speak out inaccurately, we know that. And of course, it's regrettable if it's perceived as some kind of rule technique or something. But what's important to me in this case is that the presentation from counter-debateant Pál B. Nygaard is wrong, because it's actually how we increase the number of annual works. It is explicitly in the changes we are making in the Army, it is in the assessments behind it, it is shown in the economic calculations, and it is shown in the budgetary proposals we are making under the Land Power Proposition. So to me, the important part of this debate is that we are now presenting a change and a solution to the country power that will increase our defence power and increase the sustainability of the Norwegian defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1364	I want to ask the council to come to the Storting and make visible the numbers that he now says are lying there, and that no one here can find. I think I have a right to that. It's not just for the Army to discuss numbers. It also does for Homeland. The Home Office itself has repeatedly made it clear that HV now has about 40 500 soldiers. Departing head of the Heimevernet, Tor Rune Raabye, said on 9 August that HV had 40,583 soldiers. Can the Council of State now confirm that there are no more than 40,000 soldiers in Homeland today? And then I am not talking about trickery, ‘occupied positions’, but about real soldiers with real weapons and real equipment, training and willingness to fight to protect their country. Can the government now confirm that the Home Office has the wrong number, that there are no more than 40,000, and that they now have to deliver their equipment? The government has said something else, they've said that it's just a fit for today's numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1369	The land power proposition is now under consideration in the committee, and we are given ample opportunity to discuss the figures behind and the effect of the proposition we have promoted. The representative of Navarsete is also given the opportunity to work in the committee on those things. We have made a proposition that strengthens the country's power, which strengthens the defence power of Norway, which strengthens the sustainability of defence, also by the devices and financing models we have supplied. So to the second part of the question, which really relates to a written question I have received from the representative of Navarsette. That answer has been delivered, so that answer Navarsete will receive from me in writing. When I was rolled into the Home Guard, in 1988, I didn't get weapons, not clothes. I didn't get that until 1992. All the four years before that, I was in the numbers of the head of Homeland Protection that time. I did not get shoes, not fatigue, not hats and not rifles, but I was counted. What we have supplied are the soldiers who are dressed up and delivered from the Home Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1380	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘The Fredriksverms exhibition in Stavern has been on fire since a lightning strike in 2014. It was used until then by the Judicial Sector Training Centre. Defence construction is the owner of the trade fair and of the other area. Do the Council of State act to cut through and restore the building in order to ensure future use for the joy of the students at the Police College, the UP and the students at the Judicial Sector Training and Training Centre?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1389	The Fredriksvermerst team mass suffered significant damage, as it is said, as a result of lightning strikes in 2014. The building did not burn down, but the damage made the construction useless for further operation for the Justice sector's training and practice centre. As a self-employed person, the State must itself pay for any repair of the damage. After the fire was sought to find the means to rehabilitate the fire-damaged trade fair building. Due to the strict prioritisation of investment funds for the necessary measures in the defence, no room was found for funding for the rehabilitation of trade fair buildings. After the fire, the course and practice centre of the justice sector has disposed of other building on the fixation in order to resolve a temporary need for maturation for employees, students and students. They have concluded an agreement with a civil supplier for the establishment of trade fair facilities to replace the trade fair building. Therefore, to rehabilitate the trade fair building as a trade fair facility for the justice sector, as I know, is not relevant. The defence sector no longer has activity in Stavern, and we do not need to rehabilitate the building for our own use. If the justice sector becomes in need of more building land for other purposes in the area, it may be considered to enable it to meet a future need. The cost of any restoration of the building for other purposes and the financing of the rehabilitation have not yet been assessed. I agree that it may not be desirable for such a building to be unused. I would therefore like to inform you now that I am taking a new initiative to look at the possibilities of finding a solution that will enable the building to be reused.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1402	I thank you for your answer. There was also something positive to hear here. Fredriksverm is one of the most visited tourist destinations in Norway. An estimated 250,000 people visit this beautiful area every year, and in the middle of this area there is now a characteristic six-sided burnt building, where it has been a pleasure to eat a meal or five. The students at the Police College, the police officers' crews and students must now exit the gate of the camp and a few hundred metres away to eat in a provisional canteen hired by private people, as mentioned. Does not the Council of State feel that this is a somewhat cumbersome way of dealing with the state's responsibilities as a self-assured person?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1411	No, if we look at it in the broad context, in terms of the investment funds we have, and the needs we have for new buildings and new facilities in the Defence, I'm not going to mention it as a debilitating, rather as a strict prioritisation of limited resources. I guess I'm not of those who think it's awful that people in a state like the police and justice sector have to go a few hundred meters to eat lunch somewhere else. I'm assuming I'm going to be fine. But as I said, it is not desirable for us to have built the corresponding building that is standing and rotting down, to be replaced, so I'm going to take an initiative to look at a possible solution for it built.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1418	I have a short follow-up question. The councils are drawing up a solution here. Could such a solution be that the ownership of the area is now transferred to those who have the right to use the area, i.e. that the justice sector takes over as owners, at least for parts of Fredrikswert?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1423	I don't want to pre-shoot this. It could be tempting just to leave the burden to the Minister of Justice, but he is now sitting so close here in the Chamber that then probably the protests would be heard. So what I'm telling you here is that we're going to go into the case, we're going to look at finding a solution. I don't want to pre-prosecut or give any pre-lifts in this way now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1431	‘In the autumn of 2016, the decision was taken to stop the proposed closure of the Coast Guard Command by the government outside Harstad. [[CJK]] The majority of the population believed that CJK should be continued with detention in North Norway and that in the further development of CJK, one should consider closer links with other defence departments, including the Special Forces of the Defence, both in terms of conceptual development and location. What has been done since November 2016 to further develop the Coast Guard command?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1438	The decision to continue the Coast Guard Command has been reflected in the Department's structural development plans, and the Maritime Defense Service has updated during the current year the conceptual basis of the Coast Guard Command as an operational department in the Maritime Defence. The further development of the department will be further explored. The investigation mandate is under design. Possible alternative locations and organisational links, including the relationship with the Special Forces of the Defence, as the majority suggested, will be part of the investigation. I will return to Stortinget in a suitable way as regards the further development of the Coast Guard command at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1447	This decision was made one year ago by the Stortinget, and the Council of State now comes forward with an investigation – one year after the decision of the Stortinget has been taken. It was like the government wanted to drop the Coast Guard command. I was ready to go for a co-location on Ramsund, as many wanted. I got some warnings – it was too expensive, and it might be difficult to make that kind of decisions over the table in a meeting room at Stortinget. That's why I was withholding it. But I assumed that the Ministry of Defence would investigate this, both localization and a closer link with the Special Forces of the Defence. What kind of respect is it for the Storting to keep this going for a year and start an investigation now? It's not called follow-up, it's not called respect for the Storting, it's only got one word: training.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1454	It could have been interesting to have a debate on just that with respect for the Storting. Perhaps you should have such respect for the counter-debateants that you listen to what is said in a debate. I said that further development of the department will be further investigated. The terms of reference for the investigation are under design. It is not, in fact, as the representative claims, that I said I should start with the mandate. Work is in progress. The mandate is under investigation, development will be further investigated, and I will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way when we have a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1463	There's only one word about this. When the mandate is under investigation, no investigation has been started. The store asked that this be put into place. I was careful not to make decisions too quickly. Luckily, we were rescued by the Coast Guard Command – the right would lay it all down – and then we said: This must be seen in connection with the Special Forces of the Defence – can we move to Ramsund? So then the Council of State comes to the Stortingen one year later and the ‘investigator’ continues to carry out the mandate. It's not called respect for the Storting. Here, the Council of State must simply speed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1470	I record that we have shared opinions about what is respect for Stortinget. I also have a great deal of respect for the teams we have in the defense, and I believe that such a job as this should be done properly. We'll take it seriously. That work is underway, and we come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way when we have that matter ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1478	‘More locations in the country are notified that the draft state budget for 2018 will lead to police district manpower cuts, and police officers are warned that prevention, local preparedness and the security of the population are not adequately ensured. Why does the government think it is right to put forward a police budget where almost all new funds go to the police's planned emergency services and new police helicopters, while local preparedness and prevention work in the police districts become vulnerable?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1485	The government prioritizes the police. In 2018, we propose over 18 billion. To the police. So that's an increase of 3.36 billion. kr since the government joined, when we correct for price and salary adjustment, pension reform and... [[The President coughs]] I also want to add that we have proposed an increase of 100 million in the police operating budget. In 2018, priority will be given to police districts. In addition, we're proposing to continue with 295 million. kr in increased operational resources for police districts from 2017. It is important that the police and the police officers provide room for action in order to make the most effective use of the overall resources within the framework conditions, targets and performance requirements available. The decision on priorities between, for example: Employment and equipment should therefore be more entrusted to each police officer. There's a lot of expectations for the police. This requires a targeted and long-term approach to these tasks. There will also be a need for tight police governance and priority in 2018, as it is for most public enterprises. It is important that we prioritise security in 2018, prioritising preparedness. That's why we're proposing a total of 867 million. to the National Emergency Response Centre of the police, three new and better police helicopters and reinforced border control. I want to add that from Taraldrud, the national response resources will reach 80 pst. of the population of Norway within 2 hours, and an estimated 50–60 pst. within 1 hour. In addition, the first line of any sharp incident in the districts, IP3, has been significantly strengthened since the government took over. With a new emergency centre, better interaction and transfer of competences between national response capacities and local IP3 teams will be facilitated, which is positive for Norway as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1496	I thank you for the answer, which goes along known lines. The Minister of Justice is responsible for ensuring the best possible preparedness in the country. The Minister of Justice is also responsible for promoting the actions that will be most effective, providing adequate appropriations and giving priority to the most important. At an open seminar in Oslo on 26 October this year, the senior official of the Ministry of State headed by the Council of State characterised the government’s priorities as symbolic actions. Furthermore, the Council of Ministers said that no dietary benefit assessment has been made of which measures are most effective and give us the most money. He even said about preparedness in Norway that perhaps the money could have been spent in entirely different areas in a more preventive perspective, through other types of action. Why has the Ministry of Justice and Defence not carried out a dietary/benefit assessment of which priority should be given to strengthening preparedness in Norway as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1505	The emergency centre to be built has broad support. Professionally, it's very long-awaited. The Emergency Response Team, the Oslo Police and the Police Directorate — to name a few — arrest this decision. Building an emergency centre was also one of the measures proposed by the Gjørv Commission, and this was widely supported by the Stortinget – also from the Centre Party. There are also thorough assessments and quality assurances behind the decision to build the centre on Taraldrud. I agree that we should not be blind to the recommendations of the Gjørv Commission, meaning that it is only the individual measures that are being implemented. However, in the ministry, we make continuous assessments of what measures will be effective, so that we can contribute to improving preparedness further. This is a continuous work that we have a great deal of pressure on. Then I would like to point out that when you refer to Alna – because that’s what you’re really doing – it was a poorly planned project, but the project that the government is now implementing is a very well planned project.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1514	I thank you again for the answer. The Party supported the plans for a National Emergency Response Centre. We also have in our alternative budget for next year an equal amount of funding for the emergency services that the government has in its arrangement. But we have asked questions about both the device, the scope and the local consequences of the project, just as many others have. Not least, we focus on what can help to strengthen preparedness across the country. Unlike the Council of State, we take seriously all the concerns that come from the Norwegian Police Department about cuttings and manning. In my own county, Akershus, the number of orders goes up and the number of attacks goes down. We also take seriously the concerns of the Council of State itself. Therefore, I have the following questions: Does the Council of State consider that professional assessments of which measures provide the most preparedness for the money are relevant information for the Storting? And why hasn't the Council of State taken care to provide the Storting with this information?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1523	I think we've done it the most. As I say, Taraldrud is very well planned. It is a project that delivers at all professional levels, which is desirable. It is strongly wanted by the police themselves, and I find it hard to see that there are so many people who question it, other than the Center Party. It is a continuous effort to improve preparedness in Norway. The list provided by this government is not exhaustive – by no means. There are many more measures that are also assessed. For example, I can mention reinforced legislation against those travelling for the purpose of terrorism, a new action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism, and the reinforcement we have made of the emergency team, where the personnel have increased by about 50 p.m., which has resulted in a response time of 5 minutes. Many measures are being taken in the field of preparedness. The follow-up to the Gjørv Commission was right and what was desired by this big business, also by the Center Party. There this government has delivered, but we are in no way finished delivering in Norwegian readiness.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1533	‘In its reply in the Question Time on 8 November, the Council of State states that ‘schools can do a lot to combat stress [...]’. In the newspaper on 16 November 2017, it appears that every fourth teacher believes that different instructions prevent them from doing what is best for the students. The head of the Education Association states that ‘politicians and local school authorities override the professionalism of teachers at the expense of what is best for students’. Does the Council of State consider that teachers should be able to use their professional judgement in assessing the tests and tasks to be carried out?’ Will the Council of State take action to reduce the scope of obligations that prevent teachers from adapting their teaching and following up their pupils?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1542	This is going to be between us! There is today a large room for local freedom of action in each municipality, in each school and in each classroom. The curriculum provides for freedom of method, and teachers can largely evaluate the tests and tests that students will have. Teachers must use their professional judgement to facilitate the training of individual students. I have great confidence in the professional judgement of the teachers and believe that it is important that the teacher's prophecy has a great deal of room for action to assess what's best for the individual student. At the same time, we must recognise the need for information on the outcomes, learning and development of students. As I pointed out in the Questionnaire on 8 November, national authorities only require students to carry out national tests on billing, English and reading on 5th, 8th and 9th stages. Four mandatory screening tests are also required, broken down by 1st, 2nd and 3rd stages. These samples provide valuable information and it is important to be aware that there are different purposes related to the different samples. The responsibility for fulfilling the obligations of the Training Act and ensuring that the rights of students are fulfilled lies with the school owner. This implies that the school owner also has the right to control at school. Some school owners may, for example: need to obtain a better knowledge base for developing their schools and have therefore introduced mandatory tests in addition to national requirements. Although the school owner has legal governing rights, they also have a responsibility for the sound management of schools. It may be wise to add a number of decisions to the level of best close contact with the problem and to know where the shoe is pressing. I believe that good school ownership involves taking on board the experiences and views of pupils, teachers and school management regarding participation in different bets, the use of different programmes, local mapping, etc. But it is the school owner who is responsible for putting in place the necessary measures when it turns out that students are not being granted their rights. Good governance means ensuring that all actors have the capacity and competence to take responsibility for them. In the new overall part of the curriculum, we have included a separate subchapter dealing with principles of school practice. In this context, it is clarified that the assessment of students' professional competence should both say something about what students can do and promote learning and development. The monitoring of pupils is an instrument for monitoring individuals and developing school practices. Furthermore, it states that monitoring: ‘have little value, however, if constructive measures are not followed up. Schools and teachers need to balance the need for good information about learners and the undesirable consequences of different assessment situations. Accidental use of assessment may impair the individual’s self-image and hinder the development of a good learning environment’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1566	Thanks for the answer. There's this with unfortunate testing we're concerned about. I record that there is still a great distance between the Council's response and the reality that the teachers describe. Teachers clearly state that the sum of testing, testing and narrow assessment criteria designed for students to learn more in practice threatens students’ learning. Teachers call for warnings and point out that the level of detail management can lead to students losing motivation for learning. Governments can work as much for the quality of training as they like, but it doesn't help much if it doesn't result in actual learning. Therefore, I ask: What should be done when teachers and principals are in a state of disagreement – considering the learning and development of students or national and local requirements of the authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1575	We've actually noticed this as a little bit of a new track from the Center Party, because the Center Party has been the ones that have been most eager to try to label my government and the Minister of Knowledge, whoever of ours, as if we've mistrusted the teachers because, for example, we have. introduces five-year master's training in teacher training – which is opposed to the Centre Party, and for which we are, because we believe that education works. They criticise us for distrusting the teachers because we say that skills and depression must be acquired in the common subjects in which they are taught – also because it is important for the forms of teaching which they use – and when we now carry out a highly advanced vocational renewal, which precisely clears the objectives of competence. What's strange is that the Center Party on the one hand says that we've distrusted the teachers, but on the other hand, I get all the questions from the Center Party, either in the Stortinget or elsewhere, about what I can do as a Council of State to override the academic judgement of the teachers. It's a very problematic message to have. Therefore, I almost want to ask the representative back about how she believes that what she is now asking about and asking for from me is in line with having confidence in the professors' profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1582	It is precisely the framework that the Council of State provides for teachers to pursue their profession and to act as teachers. I believe the Council of State undermines the professional judgements of the teachers by not taking into account that there is something wrong in the framework. It's time we became concrete. In the previous Question Time, the Council of State listed — and he does so now — the mandatory elements of the quality assessment system. I have done my homework – I have the message, which lists the voluntary parts of the quality assessment system, which are also widely used: learning-support tests, character support tests, screening tests and international tests. When the teachers try to turn the quality circle once for each test and find new targets and new mappings to get information, we see that the gain goes up in the spin. Will the Council of State take the initiative in renewing the quality assessment system and in concrete terms strengthen the ability of teachers to exercise professional judgement?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1591	We've done it in part, in the sense that we've removed one of the national screening tests that the red-green government had, because we thought it was unnecessary in the first grade of high school. So we have fewer national tests now than we had when the representative's party ruled the country. The second is that we have also reviewed the quality assessment system, and what we saw then, is that there are very few tests, and it takes little time. The representative also refers – quite correctly – to international studies. After all, the centre party believes that Norway, as the only country in the OECD, is to report from the PISA study. It would be quite alarming, as it is one of the world's largest school research projects, looking at how quality develops in different countries. In addition, she refers to a number of voluntary studies that are out there. A honorary expression that I thought the Center Party had is ‘local self-government’, just that local government out there can assess what they need for information about the schools they are responsible for. But if we are to have confidence in the municipalities that govern, we are to have confidence in the teachers in the classroom, it also means that as a government council, I can't always promise that I will override everything the Center Party asks me to override.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1600	Then the ordinary question hour is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-22.ana.ud76e1614	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
