ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e62	The representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Advance Party Group to the representative of Mazyar Keshvari from 30 May until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Peter N. Myhre, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e87	Peter N. Myhre is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e107	Before the President-in-Office of the Council of State, Mr Bakke-Jensen, receives the floor to make his statement, the President will propose the following statement for the debate on this matter: It is based on Section 45(a) of the Storting Rules of Procedure, which deals with a statement by a member of the Government, but that the provision is waived by opening up up to six lines of reply immediately after the State Council's statement. The President will propose that the rest of the debate be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and with a final 5 minutes from the Council of State in line with the last paragraph of Section 45 of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e118	The Nordic Council plays an active role in removing border barriers in the Nordic region. The background to my presentation here today is that the Finnish Presidency of the Nordic Council has taken an initiative to hold debates on frontier barriers in all Nordic parliaments in 2017. So, as a Nordic Minister of Cooperation, I am making this statement on behalf of the government. The last such debate took place in 2012 under the previous presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. The Nordic Prime Ministers agree that the fight against frontier barriers is one of the most important tasks in Nordic cooperation in order to generate growth and improve work in the Nordic region. This is not least a common desire to help young people enter the labour market. This is also an important measure to implement the ambition of the Nordic Prime Ministers at the meeting in Åland in September 2016 to ensure that the Nordic region is the most integrated region in the world. In line with the ambitions to strengthen the Nordic competitiveness – ‘North in transition’, Norway prioritises the work of its Presidency in 2017, as one of the pillars of our Presidency programme. This is also a continuation of the efforts made by Finland in 2016 and Denmark in 2015. The Border Barriers Council was established in 2014 and focuses on removing border barriers that hamper mobility, free movement and value creation for both individuals and businesses, as well as preventing the emergence of new border barriers. The Council is chaired in 2017 by Norway’s representative Svein Ludvigsen. The government is committed to exploiting the opportunities offered by Nordic cooperation for growth and development in the northern regions. The work of the Border Obstacle Council is therefore also mentioned in the new Northern Region Strategy. The main purpose of this statement is to provide an overview of the Nordic border-blocking work, with particular emphasis on the Border Barrier Council. In addition, the presentation will give priority to examples of border barriers in Norway, as well as to issues that have been resolved, as well as to clarify which cross-border barriers challenges it is not possible to solve for different reasons. A complete reduction of border barriers is neither realistic nor desirable, short and good because the Nordic countries have different laws and regulations. The Border Barriers Council was therefore provided in response to the need for a structure to address common border barriers in the Nordic region. The Border Barriers Council shall also facilitate an open and functioning labour market and create the best possible conditions for the further development of the already closely integrated Nordic economy. The Border Barriers Council has been very successful in its work. The objective of resolving 5-10 border barriers annually is more than met. In the period 2014–2016, a total of 27 barriers have been identified, i.e.: 20 is solved and 7 is written off. Depreciation means that matters cannot be resolved, for example. due to the requirement of resiprosity, but also for national policy reasons. However, we must always think ahead and adapt our business as needed. The Council of Ministers has undergone major reforms in recent years, most recently under the Finnish Presidency in 2016, with New Nordic 2.0. Efficiency and flexibility now have a much greater impact on cooperation than before. When the Nordic Cooperation Ministers met in Oslo on 9 February, we had a discussion on the way forward for the Border Barrier Council. The background was a common desire for efficiency and good results. The conclusion of the meeting was that an external evaluation of the work of the Border Barrier Council will be carried out during 2017. I believe such an evaluation is important to ensure the legitimacy of the work of the Border Barrier Council. The evaluation is expected to be completed during the autumn. Thereafter, the Ministers for Cooperation will propose any changes to the mandate of the Border Barrier Council and any changes to the structure of the Border Barrier Council. The Norwegian Presidency of the Border Obstacle Council has highlighted a dialogue with social partners and business organisations on the management of border barriers in the labour market. I had such a dialogue meeting with the social partners in April, and we agreed to meet regularly to face common challenges. During the year, Norway shall prioritise new barriers within the Border Obstacle Council. The range of tensions in cases is high, but by far the majority still include social benefits for frontier commuters and, to a lesser extent, problems for business. Examples of two border barriers that were resolved by Norwegian side in 2016 were the winding-up of Norwegian customs and VAT rules for Nordic companies and the approval of certificates for snowmobiles in Norwegian-Swedish border regions. An example of a barrier that cannot be solved is patient travel for commuters. A frontier commuter with a stay in Finland or Sweden and work in Norway is liable to social security and taxation in Norway. He/she will not be compensated for his/her patient/treatment travels from home in Finland or Sweden to hospital in Norway, unlike his/her colleagues with housing and work in Norway. Norway considers that the case cannot be resolved unilaterally from Norway and requires resiprosity, i.e. that we have to have mutual agreements to resolve such a case. The Border Barriers Council is also working on the issue of the recognition of professional qualifications in some sectors where there are different national requirements. In such cases, the losers are often young skilled workers who are not allowed to practise outside their own country. Sweden has the presidency of Nordic cooperation in 2018. The Swedish Chamber of Commerce recently presented a report on border barriers, where Norway is designated as the country where Swedish companies face the biggest problems. It is emphasised that Norway has different VAT rules and customs barriers because Norway is not a member of the EU Customs Union. It is my particular impression that little or no knowledge of Norway’s position as an EEA Member State, particularly when it comes to trade in agricultural and seafood products, may appear as a barrier to trade in itself. We have expressed to Sweden that we are open to closer dialogue on these issues. The Border Obstacle Council will also look into concrete issues in the report of the College of Commerce. Let me not mention that the information services play a key role in the cross-border work. The lack of information can, in itself, be a serious barrier to frontiers. Information services may provide high numbers both for personal visits and for Internet visits. So to the Sami people: Samemen is an indigenous people who live in several countries. It is therefore important to facilitate cross-border interaction. Norway, together with Sweden and Finland, has negotiated a joint Nordic Convention. A general objective of the Convention is to preserve, exercise and develop their culture with the least possible barriers to cross-border cooperation. The Convention is now at the disposal of the compounds in the three countries. The removal of frontier barriers focuses on the Nordic region. This is not least the case in Europe, where cross-border problems have long been addressed. In the EU, an overview of cross-border work is now being drawn up. The Council of Ministers is actively contributing to this work on our experiences, and the EU is very interested in our examples. Digitalisation is also central to solving border barriers in the Nordic region. In the Declaration of the Nordic-Baltic Conference on Digitalisation, Digital North, on 25 April, it is named among others. striving to develop a cross-border digital service infrastructure with a view to supporting free movement of people, goods, services, capital and data in the region. At the same time, it is desirable to make it possible to use unique cross-border ID numbers, as well as the use of electronic authorisation. I would like to stress that the work on frontier barriers is mainly in the departments. The impression is that the departments and the underlying agencies are working well with frontier barriers and that awareness of these problems has increased in recent years. The establishment of the Border Obstacle Council has contributed to this. Before I finish, I'll mention one of the boundary barriers that is most visible right now. Passport freedom has been a matter of course in the Nordic region since the mid-fifties. It's also been unique to the Nordic region. However, we have had to become friends to legitimize at several border crossings in the Nordic region, even though Sweden is now terminating the ID control over Øresund. We actively monitor how these interim controls affect Nordic cooperation. And it is important to stress that the passport freedom of Nordic citizens is not set aside by the introduction of temporary ID and border controls at the common Nordic borders. In 2015, the Danish Presidency created the term ‘blocks for growth’. Border barriers can no longer be considered just as obstacles to free movement, but as a hindrance to the growth of our economies. I would like to stress that we have created very good conditions to clear up obstacles to employment and growth in the Nordic countries. I am also convinced that we can improve and deepen cooperation on solving and preventing frontier barriers in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e160	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e165	It is very good that the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Prime Ministers have reorganised their work against border barriers and appear to give priority to the work both to counter new border barriers and to remove existing ones. Nevertheless, work on border barriers may seem to be a ‘never ending story’, as soon as some frontier barriers are removed, new ones are added. In the Nordic Council's cross-border group, we are naturally concerned with the same thing as ministers, namely preventing both new ones and removing existing ones. My question to the Minister will be, now that Norway has the presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers: What will the Minister do to make his own office aware that we must not create new frontier barriers when we are working with new legislation, for example.?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e172	That's a good question, and it's also pointed out very well in the situation. This is one of the reasons why we now have an evaluation of the Border Barrier Council — how the Border Barrier Council has worked, and it is possible to find other functions for the Border Barrier Council. It is absolutely right that this is not a job that will go over, simply because the situation is changing across borders. In the past, information was sent by letter. Information is now sent via electronic communications. Trade is changing — it comes from other countries, but trade is also more cross-border in the Nordic region. Before we drove to border trade, it's usually done by ordering digitally. So the evaluation of the work of the Border Barrier Council will be an important part, and then I assume that you also look at how you anchor it in the ministry's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e179	I understand that this is a work that needs to be carried out over time, but nevertheless one can become impatient to work on this. A field which has at least appeared in the Nordic Council of Ministers is to encourage governments to become much more aware of how to prevent new barriers to entry. I noticed that the minister said we have to raise awareness of the ministry, but it has to be stronger than that. I assume that this is something all governments have tried over several years, so I want to ask again: what concrete will come out of this evaluation, and what will be done to prevent new frontier barriers from coming to?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e184	Let me make it clear that when I said raising awareness of the departments, it is part of the daily job to make sure that this is taken into account when we propose laws, regulations and amendments. I think we should also be aware that there are border barriers on many levels. It may be similar to legislation, similar to legislation, and there are practices in different countries that cause frontier barriers — it is just looking down towards the level of etat. There has been an airy proposal for some kind of permeability every time, that any legislative proposal should be reviewed to make a change in the area of frontier barriers. It is probably a verbal proposal that can be recommended. I also think we should be aware that a limitless bureaucracy in these matters could also appear to be a barrier, so I think we should be careful to push too much on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e191	Two years after the Nordic Council was established in 1952, we got the freedom of passports, and that was probably the greatest progress in building down border barriers in the Nordic region. It is no longer a reality. As the Council of State said, temporary ID control and border control are now in place between several Nordic countries, and it is particularly burdensome and problematic, especially for those crossing Øresund, back and forth between Sweden and Denmark. It should be an overall task for the Norwegian authorities to work towards removing this border control within the Nordic region. Should not Norway, with the role we now have, work to ensure that we in the Nordic region are united on a border control and an ID control for those who are going into the Nordic region, and that one does not have border control between the Nordic countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e198	The internal border control has asked individual States to be allowed, as part of the Schengen cooperation. I believe that the reason for this is the migration problem and that we have a large proportion of people entering the Schengen area elsewhere. I think the internal border control is regrettable as it is, but no matter how regrettable it is that the need for it is, it has proved to be clever and good in the situation we are now in, that there are internal border controls at national level, simply because we have control points on the ferries entering Norway in that way. Each country has been able to decide how to exercise internal control. I think it has been effective and right to do it this way in the period that has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e203	The five Nordic countries have always been individual states. The central party agrees with the Council of State that it is not realistic or desirable to remove all border barriers between maritime countries. But what goes on the theme of border control of people is absolutely something you should follow up to ensure what has been true since 1954. State councils say it's a good idea or it's a good idea to have that border control, for example between Denmark and Sweden. Is this position anchored in the fact that now conditions in Sweden and Denmark are so politically different that it will not be possible to remove border controls between the two countries? Is that what the Council of State calls'stupid'?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e211	No, no, no. There is a lot of power gathered in this room, but it is not up to this room to remove barriers between Denmark and Sweden. This regime has chosen Denmark and Sweden itself. From the Norwegian point of view, it has been tricked, and it has proved to be practical, to have national control over this control. It has nothing to do with the political situation in Denmark and Sweden, but it has to do with the situation Europe is facing in migration policy, that we have got quite a few people into the Schengen area, so it has been necessary. With someone with the right and some without the right to be here, it has been seen to be appropriate to have border controls also within the Schengen area. Norway has chosen to have some control points for our part, Denmark has chosen its own, and Sweden has chosen some others. I believe that has been the right decision and has proved to be a good practice in the situation we have been in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e220	The central party is for border control within the Schengen area. That's not what we're talking about. We're discussing where the border control is going to be in the Nordic region. When the Council of State then bypasses answering the question of whether we should have a border control at the border into the Nordic region, and that the reason for not working for it is that it is best to have it as it is, I have to drill on: Is it really the way that the Norwegian management of the Nordic Council will not now work to get a common border control into the Nordic region, thus removing the burdens it imposes on the many who travel back and forth between, for example, for example. Sweden and Denmark? It is a way of doing this which is up to the national parliaments in the Nordic countries to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e225	It is free for the national parliaments, regardless of what this Council of State thinks, to make any proposals they wish to make in relation to these matters. This government has chosen to participate in the internal border control. We have chosen ferry traffic from Germany, Sweden and Denmark as practical control points. From the Norwegian point of view, it has proved to be important control points. Sweden has chosen to have a control over ferry traffic between Denmark and Sweden. We have to respect that. It is a Swedish decision taken by the national authorities in Sweden, probably on the basis of the same experience and the same practical thinking as that of the Norwegian Government. There has been a good control in the difficult situation Europe has been in in terms of migration, legal and illegal, in recent months.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e232	Now there is no border control between Sweden and Denmark anymore, at least it was not this weekend. But what I was going to ask was, a barrier that is perceived by both the population and business, is cross-border transport. We experience that, for example. along the entire border between Norway and Sweden. That's where we've done pretty well on the road, for example. between Østfold and Bohuslän – finally E6 has been developed and it works well. But on the railway side there is a lot left. I am aware of the national priorities, but a start would be if the countries agreed to provide them, for example. a common transport plan for cross-border transport. Is there anything the Norwegian Presidency will give priority to working on the next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e239	First, with regard to the five countries within the Schengen area that were allowed to have an internal control, they have continued to be allowed to have it, and then the nations choose even if they want to do so. As far as transport is concerned, no, we have not prioritised a common transport plan. We've given a different priority. But some work is done in Nordic cooperation with common transport plans. There's a Barents transport plan in the north, and it's working pretty well down through at regional level. So I think that part of the problem is illuminated in many ways. The boundaries are long, and I'm not quite sure you have to look at it at a national level – it's quite possible to see it regionally to make the needs more visible. We must also take into account – which is often forgotten – that we are not in a customs union with the EU. There shall be customs clearance at border crossing, whether by foot, by wheels or by aircraft or by train. That is often forgotten in the debates. I think we're comfortable, taking into account that there should be customs controls at each border.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e248	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e253	Thank you to the Council of State for a brief explanation. I think it's great that we've had a joint debate in the Nordic region on border barriers. As head of the Norwegian delegation, I have to say that everyone, although not up here today, is concerned about border barriers. The entire Norwegian delegation is occupied with it and should like to stand here and talk, I think. When Finland has raised this issue especially in its presidency year and Norway is now taking over, it means that the staf stick is passed on. There are too many obstacles to the borders – the small and large irritations, the obstacles and looting issues, which can sometimes be solved if one wishes, and which are often lifted by grassroots into the Border Barrier Council or through the political arenas of the Nordic Council. Other times, as the Council of State also says, one just has to realize that one can't solve all of them, and has to find other ways of dealing with it further. But then, as the representative Johansen had in mind, we must also prevent new ones from emerging. Many of the barriers we hear about go to work and social affairs. With the labour market we have, with a lot of commuting across borders, it's easy to move and little language barriers. That's why it's especially important that we don't have frontier barriers that make it difficult. In its annual report, the Border Obstacle Council points to many different issues that they are working on, issues that have been resolved, and – once again – issues that cannot be resolved. We see that both the right to unemployment benefits, the right to leave in political work in another country or the right to commute by car to another country are matters we have worked with. There are important issues that affect opportunities and not least the willingness to work in other Nordic countries. But also in other areas, there are obstacles. We have an entrepreneurial market that is borderless, but where there are different building regulations that cause difficulties. It should be able to be solved. It is customs and VAT rules that should be coordinated and made so that it does not prevent us from carrying work tools across borders without paying VAT each time, or that foreign owners of leisure properties in Sweden cannot order electricity or the Internet because they do not have a personal number or coordination number. Yes, then we realize that there is a lot to do. I would also like to commend the Border Barrier Council for the work they are doing, and I believe that they are systematically and transparently taking the fight against border barriers. The responsibility of the Council of State will be to follow up the recommendations and enquiries that come. It can be done by active Nordic involvement. When we take over the Presidency, we expect from the delegation that there will be an active period. I also see that the Council of State's statement promises well for that. One of the issues in the Nordic Council that has been up-to-date for many years has been the establishment of a common register for health professionals who have comments or have lost their authorisation. Here we have also met on some kind of border barriers, which go on law and in particular the threshold of when to lose the authorisation. It is also a matter that should be resolved, as patient safety is at stake. Health professionals moving around who have claims against them, have injured patients or have drug dependence problems should be our shared responsibility to ensure that people in the Nordic region are not treated. There is a barrier that I hope the Council of State will look at more, and check the difficulties, so that everyone who employs health professionals in the Nordic region knows that they get people who know their job and who are not dangerous. Lundtägen was in the area of passport freedom, and there is another matter that I would like to say something about. We've been used to that in the Nordic region, and we're proud of that. The fact that we are now being encouraged to take care of travel in the Nordic countries is regrettable, even though I understand why, and the Council of State has also given good reasons. But I hope that it will be temporary, and that we can again travel back and forth across the borders without having a threat of taking the passport with us on the journey. The borderless Nordic is to me also a Nordic where we understand each other. Maintaining the common language that we have in Scandinavia, and understanding each other, is a responsibility that rests with us all. Media, with TV in the head, has a responsibility to contribute to it, such as sending in another language without dipping or translating. Whether there is a barrier to making more common series, joint programmes or joint documentaries, it should be looked at and amended. It is also important for a common Nordic country in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e274	I would also like to thank the Council of State for the presentation. In the north, we're the same. We live quite like lives, and other countries in the world view the North almost as a unit. That's why it's important to try to reduce many of the barriers that have arisen between us over time. In the Nordic Council there is a lot of talk about this and agreement to do something about the border barriers that prevent flexible and good cooperation across the Nordic borders. In fact, when implementing laws and regulations adopted in the EU, we often implement them so differently in the Nordic countries that new barriers arise between us. This is an area in which we should improve, with closer cooperation both politically and administratively, so that we implement EU directives and legislation in the same way in the Nordic region. An example is EU controls on cars. If you take that check in Sweden, it will not be approved in Norway. That's a little weird. A lot of good work is done on border barriers. The Border Barriers Council, as it has been here, established in Nordic cooperation, receives cases from all Nordic countries. The Minister of Cooperation exerts pressure on the other Councils, so that the departments address the challenges it is desirable to address. Some issues are not prioritised, some rules are specific to each country, but the issues to be addressed are systematically set up and worked on, as the Council of State also stated in its statement. I am in the welfare committee of the Nordic Council, and we have had several cross-border issues for treatment. There have been issues of labour mobility across our borders and social benefits. A case concerns day pay and unemployment benefits and that you can lose the right to these benefits if you report to the wrong a-kasse. The obstacle can affect both border work and people who have lived and worked in Sweden. This is an example of obstacles that you have to tackle and solve. A few weeks ago, there was a big headline in the Evening Post entitled «Open Nordic Research and Treatment Limits». It is about precision medicine that can save multiple cancer patients and prevent serious side effects, but it requires a reduction of border barriers by crossing both disciplines and national borders. In order to achieve better research and treatment, interdisciplinary Nordic cooperation is needed. Severely ill patients have poor time and cannot wait. That's why we have to do something about the barriers between the Nordic countries and between the research field. A research-oriented health system is a prerequisite for the development of precision medicine. Precision medicine is about finding out which treatment works best for the individual patient. There may be considerable differences between two tumours in the same patient. At the same time, one patient’s pharyngolaryngeal medicine can be an effective treatment of another patient’s lung cancer. Research gives us new insights and new treatment options. A Nordic premium for precision medicine means that we have to cross the Nordic borders. The Nordic region represents as many as 25 million people and allows researchers to follow a large group of patients over time. We need first-class and optimal solutions for data security and privacy, good IT systems and sharing sensitive information in order to analyse these large amounts of data. And of course, patients need to be invited to user involvement, because trust is important. They need to know what the data is for, and they need to pick what they want to be on. A commitment to Nordic cancer cooperation requires public organisation. Authorities and public authorities must make it possible for researchers to use the registered health data we already have. In the Nordic region, we have the structure that makes it possible to achieve faster with new research. Health data can be used to develop medicine more quickly, and by reducing this barrier, the Nordic region has a unique opportunity to become a global testing centre for the development of new medicines that exploit the digital infrastructure. The Nordic region has all the prerequisites for leading the way in health digitisation. It can help change the lives of the 14 million new people who get cancer every year. That's why we need to have full pressure on building down the frontier barriers that can make this possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e293	First of all, let me thank the Council of State for the presentation. The work done is exciting. Nordic cooperation is quite unique in the world context. It has been told to me that Sweden and Denmark are the two countries that have been most at war with each other throughout history – apparently 47 times. We should not think that we are in the Nordic Council and see how well we are working together there today. I think Nordic cooperation in many places is seen as a source of inspiration for other regions of the world. We're being noticed for the way we cooperate and the way we work, also with the topic we're discussing today. The vision of the government is that the Nordic region will be the most integrated region in the world. It is particularly important in our time, when we meet a number of challenges that we need to solve together, such as migration and security, including IT security. Climate is also an important part of that debate. It is important to create the labour market of the future to facilitate continued economic growth. Here, the fight against frontier barriers is a key issue, because it will strengthen the Nordic competitiveness of the global market. Border barriers make goods and services more expensive, hamper development and offer fewer choices for the individual. The objective of reducing border barriers is to provide the best possible conditions for Nordic enterprises that will operate in other Nordic countries and to ensure that new border barriers do not arise, as the Council of State has also done. As the Council of State was concerned, the abolition of five to ten border barriers each year is the objective and is a priority in the labour market, social and educational fields. Work produces results in both large and small cases. For example, Swedish snowmobile drivers are now allowed to drive in Norway, which they could not do in the past. Small and medium-sized Nordic enterprises have now been given access to comprehensive information on the laws and regulations applicable to activities in other Nordic countries. They didn't have that before. Additional taxation on persons living in a Nordic country and receiving pensions from another Nordic country has also ceased. Another important area where Nordic cooperation is important is the area of digitisation. The Norwegian Presidency will better facilitate the digital economy for the inhabitants, across the Nordic neighbouring countries, and thus provide the basis for new jobs. For example, you work to use your personal identity number and your bank ID in the other Nordic countries, so that you can apply for admission to, among others. schools and universities or use banking services. While we will work for more Nordic transparency, more mobility across borders and more cooperation in digital solutions, we must also remember that this can be exploited – we must not be naive. I want to draw an example. As Nordic citizens, we have the right to move across borders, take with us the right to work and receive social security benefits. In 2012, the media wrote about a case in which a Norwegian woman had been denied the right to animal husbandry for all time. She had been in serious animal abuse in Norway. Then she moved to Sweden and took up the animal team again. She could do this on the basis of differences in the legal systems of the two countries. My colleague in the Progress Party who was in the Nordic Council at the time, Vigdis Giltun, took this up in the Nordic Council in 2012. The conclusion was that they would work for increased cross-border information exchange. I have chosen to follow this up with a question to the Nordic governments this month about how to now work to put in place a common Nordic system or a network for the exchange of information in such cases. I look forward to the answer to that question. Earlier this month we saw a wave of cyberattacks. As society becomes more digitised, it is also more vulnerable to this type of attack, whether from criminals who are looking for profit, from actors who want to collect information, or from actors who want to paralyze parts of society. This is also an area in which we need to cooperate in the Nordic region, because this crime is cross-border and not concentrated in just one country. Not least, we should at least cooperate much more on the exchange of experience and information, as a minimum. Finally, migration, which was also addressed in the round of questions with the Council of State. It is quite clear that what may be done at the border between Sweden and Denmark is also important for migration to Norway. Here we have to cooperate. It is important that we control migration, and it is important that the Nordic Council also address that type of issue, even though it may be ‘touchy’ to address it at times. I mean, you do a lot of good work. Thank you to those who work in their daily work to reduce border barriers. Thank you to the Council of State for the presentation. I look forward to further work in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e318	I would also like to thank you for the statement. The Nordic Council was established in 1952. So it's been working well for 65 years. It's a longer period than the period from 1905 to 1952, to get a little perspective on it. And why has it worked so well? Well, because there were relatively similar conditions in the Nordic countries, especially in the areas of working life and social security networks, and the Nordic model has been central. When you're going to work to get rid of frontier barriers, it's essential that you have the best possible level of development in the big lines. As I said in the exchange of lines, the Central Party is against taking away any barrier, because it's a maritime country, so we support the Council of State at that point. However, what is general in the context of border-blocking work is that it must be as equal as possible to social development. What is most demanding now is that the development of working life is very demanding, and in my opinion and in the opinion of the Center Party, what happens every day is to take away the Nordic model, where the core is that everyone should have security of income from their work, and that income should be such that one can live in the high-cost area of the Nordic countries. If we don't manage to stop development here, Nordic cooperation will become increasingly demanding. I hope that in this situation Norway will be able to maintain more of the Nordic model when we are outside the EU than the EU country will be able to do. We have a number of issues related to border-blocking work that go on taxes and social benefits, and that goes right into what I'm talking about right now. Otherwise, I want a little more attention on passport freedom, which came in 1954 – two years after the establishment of the Nordic Council in 1952. As I said, it's no longer a reality. The refugee situation has changed that, and we have received temporary ID and border checks. What is really demanding, as I learned from the work of the Nordic Council, is that there is now such a difference between Sweden and Denmark in the attitude towards reception and integration – and at all events the attitude towards refugees. Historically, it has at least been in the last 10–15 years, perhaps 20 years, that Norway has had a position that has been something between Sweden and Denmark, and that position should be a basis for Norway to play an active role in achieving a more united position, as I said, removing border control between Nordic countries and getting border control into the Nordic region. After many years in the Nordic Council, I am concerned that this topic is not discussed in an open and honest way in the Nordic Council. There's a lot of talk about border barriers, but the big elephant in the room, which is what I'm taking up now, is far too little discussed. It is extremely important, it is also very difficult – I agree with everyone who has spoken here earlier. This is where we believe from the Central Party that Norway should be a driver to restore the fact that we got in 1954 with passport freedom. I am surprised that the Council of State is so cautious in its statements. We accept that the Nordic countries are maritime countries and have their decisions, and that will be the final one. However, the whole point of the Nordic Council is that one should try to coordinate the positions of the Nordic parliaments through parliamentarians participating in the Nordic Council, thus reaching common consensus solutions. So I want the Council of State to elaborate on the position of border control between the Nordic countries versus having it into the Nordic countries. In my opinion, as a member of the Nordic Council, this is the most important issue that the Norwegian Government should address now in order to reduce the barrier problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e335	I would also like to first thank you for the presentation and just make a few brief comments on it. What it emphasises above all is the success of the Nordic Council, and the continued enhanced cooperation we have – and have had for decades – despite the fact that this is a country with different links both in terms of security policy and economics, and also in relation to the EU. What the statement shows, and which is positive, is the systematic nature of this work, and the fact that the Border Barrier Council, as referred to, is constantly clearing up new areas where obstacles exist, so that cooperation is strengthened. What I want to be concerned about is that this is not just the practical cooperation; what it's primarily about is a cooperation where we need to think more Nordic in many ways. Because we have a Nordic where countries can be relatively small if you see them separately, but together – whether they are political, economic, in relation to research, higher education, cultural – you have a common strength that can compete with anywhere in the world, whether it is China or it is the United States or it is other parts of Europe. This is as much a common thinking about cooperation as the specific rules. I am very pleased that this is being brought forward, that we are taking away barriers, but we should also strengthen practical cooperation, for example. National transport plan, which comes, we can strengthen cooperation on freight transport and joint planning in several areas in the years to come. Then there are the problems about the temporary requirements to carry passports and the obstacles that are there. It is clear that Europe is in a situation where one has had a significant migration problem, that one has refugees moving across borders, and also in the Left we see that it has been right to have rules on this. However, it is important to keep in mind that this, which under the EEA Agreement and the Schengen cooperation, allows temporaryity around these rules, and that the objective must be to return as quickly as possible to the freedom of movement which is throughout the Schengen area. It's something that we have a great advantage of, and it's definitely also a strength for all of this cooperation. So a situation where we're going to look at the North as one area, and that control is going to go from there and out, the Left is going to be strongly opposed. It is the whole Schengen cooperation that we need to ensure, and this is about having better controls around the external borders, so that we safeguard and maintain freedom within Schengen, a freedom that then also covers and must cover the whole of the Nordic region. And when there are temporary border controls, we always have to look at how fast we can get away from that temporary and back to the normal, that one has free, open borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e347	Thank you for the comments, which are both good and reflected. To the representative Sonja Mandt: Yes, the border barriers are just like this, it's mainly the inhabitants and businesses that experience them, and then we're going to try to do something about it. It varies a little bit. There are quite a number of examples of unemployment benefits, redundancy benefits, and very many are national things that need to be clarified in that country, it turns out. But it's being mapped and worked pretty well on it. A big question is electronic ID. How can we have a simpler ID and an electronic ID – they go together? How can we make it easier to solve such a problem? It's coming, but it's turned out to be more complicated than you thought. To the representative Bente Stein Mathisen: Research in Nordic? Yeah, that's right, a 25 million-dollar impact field with common research resources gives much bigger muscles. I'm going to attend a meeting with the Norwegian Research Council, I think it's next week, about that very part, where they come up with ideas on how to more seamlessly collaborate and research in a Nordic context. I think there's a lot of good ideas there. Digitalisation is going to be important. When new barriers arise, new platforms such as digitisation will appear, as the representative of Leirstein says. As far as migration is concerned, it is simply not useful to look at the migration problem and how we can protect ourselves, from the Nordic countries. It is quite right, as the representative of Elvestuen says, that this problem is often on the outside of Europe's borders. But the Schengen system gives us an opportunity and some tools, plus the other thing we do: we are present in the Mediterranean with resources, and we are present in the EU and EFTA organisations with resources to do what is most important, and it is to help those who are initially on the run and on the move. We have had a number of frequent internal checks within the Schengen area, and it has probably been helpful in that many more could have gone hiking within the area if they had not. It has proved to be a tool that works. But as the representative of Elvesuen says, it's temporary, and it should be. As soon as you've cleaned up some of the other things, this is an obstacle that's going to go away. Finally to the Nordic model: A month and a half ago there was a conference at the University of Oslo where the Nordic model was taken up. They invited economists, socialists, and different people from all over the world to do something about the Nordic model, just to try to identify what it is. Depending on the kind of political stance you have in the Nordic region, you like to have different definitions of what the Nordic model is. It's right, as the representative Lundtigen says, one of the most important things about the Nordic model is that you have a safety net. Things can change around the world that affect the inhabitants of Nordic countries, but the Nordic model has a safety net that ensures that people are cared for when there are changes. The main conclusion of the conference at the University of Oslo was that it is difficult to say whether the cooperation triangle between organisations, businesses and policies is the most important characteristic or whether the welfare state is. If you're going to describe the Nordic model, you're going to conclude that the Nordic model makes us adaptable. Over decades, we have been able to adapt to the changes that take place outside the Nordic borders, but which affect us to the greatest extent. The welfare model is part of it, the fact that we have a high proportion of the population in work is another part of it, and the fact that we have good educational institutions is part of it. This makes us adaptable to the endings that come, and that's probably the greatest strength of the Nordic model. The ambition of the Nordic Prime Ministers is that the Nordic region will become the most integrated region in the world, a very good ambition and a real ambition that will take Nordic cooperation and Nordic countries into the future in a safe and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e368	It's an ambition we all share, and it's nice. The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the report on border barriers in the Nordic region be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e386	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e395	In this proposal from the representatives of the local authorities Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Kirsti Bergstø and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås there are two proposals. The one proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish seismic-free areas on a Norwegian plaice in areas of particular value for fisheries in the context of the revision of the management plans for Norwegian sea areas.’ The second proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make proposals under the Petroleum Act that oil exploration in the form of seismics, shallow drilling, etc. not allowed in areas not open to petroleum activity.» At the end of this ageing period, it is clear that there have been many proposals in the field of petroleum policy, but, as it stands in the position, petroleum policy is firmly established, and that is by a large majority. Petroleum activities in Norway are subject to strict health, environmental and safety requirements and to external environmental protection. There is also a large majority in the Committee which points to the requirement of consent/authorisation of authority for all activities, including exploration, development, exploitation and closure phases, and the importance of ensuring good co-existence with other users of the sea. It is an important element of petroleum policy and has been reinforced in recent years. Norway is one of the world’s largest exporters of fish and seafood. We are one of the world's largest and most advanced shipping nations, and the supplier industry is world-class. Norway is also at the forefront of marine research and responsible management of marine resources. All of this is scattered along the entire Norwegian coast and is part of the important value creation that is taking place in the country. The maritime strategy presented by the government on 21 February this year provides an overview of the importance of marine industry for Norway. Of the calculating marine value creation of 760 billion. In 2017, the petroleum industry stood for 668 billion. kr. It is also estimated that the total employment of the marine industry includes 256 000 persons, 193 000 of whom are related to the petroleum industry. It does tell with all clarity how important this industry is, and how important a large majority in this room seems to be the industry. It is necessary to continue to facilitate participation in this process of value creation. With regard to the prohibition of oil exploration in areas not open to petroleum activities, a large majority point to the fact that knowledge of the resource base on Norwegian base is essential for good and sound resource management. We also point out that the proposal not to allow oil exploration in the form of seismics, shallow drilling, etc. in areas not open to petroleum activities, the Norwegian State could prevent the acquisition of knowledge of Norwegian natural resources and the maintenance of national interests. It will also break our tradition of fact and knowledge-based management of natural resources and the marine environment. We rely on the fact that the petroleum industry will continue to grow in Norway, and this will be done in the same way as it has done to date, through knowledge and good co-existence with other partners in the areas where the industry is located.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e418	The coast has been important for Norway since the first humans settled up here in the north. In this case I will start with the fish. We have reaped what the sea has given us, and created a living base. The fish has given us food at all times and has also given us large export values. Today, we have historically high populations and achieve high prices in the market. Norwegian fish exports are high in both volume and value. We exported white fish for 13.8 billion. kr in 2016. It's a record and an increase of 6 pst. Volume increased by 7 pst. This is important value creation that we cannot risk, and which is important to give Norway more legs to stand on. This is important that we take care of. Oil extraction on Norwegian soil has been an adventure for Norway and has created great values. This will continue to be done by the petroleum industry for many years to come. But there must be some compromises. Areas that are important to the fish, we have to protect them from seismic activity. The Christian People's Party believes that it is unfortunate that there can be seismic shooting in these areas, and we believe that this is too high a risk. These are vulnerable areas that need stronger protection. For example, Nordland VI has one of the richest cod populations and is an important spawning area for cod, herring and a number of other fish species. We've been fishing in these areas for centuries and we're going to do it forever. In that case, the fish must be given priority over oil. That is why we support the proposal on seismic-free zones. For the second proposal, it is important to remember that the identification of the Norwegian resource base is important in order to have sound and sound resource management. If we do not allow oil exploration in the form of seismics, shallow drilling and the like in areas that are not open to petroleum activities, it will make it difficult to acquire knowledge of Norwegian natural resources. This will break our tradition of fact and knowledge-based management of natural resources and marine environments. The Christian People's Party therefore does not support this proposal. I am addressing the proposal to which the Christian People's Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e431	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e436	Norway is the world’s second largest exporter of fish and seafood and also one of the world’s largest oil and gas producers. In addition, we are definitely a country that is at the forefront of responsible management of marine resources. I would also like to thank the proposers. There is no doubt that the shooting of seismics has a negative impact on fisheries, primarily temporarily, because it has a frightening effect and is something we have to take into account. It is positive that several measures have been implemented to limit the impact of seismic shooting in recent years. However, seismic problems still exist – it is land-intensive and definitely affects fisheries. It is important for the Left that although we recognise that seismics are important for the petroleum industry, this is definitely not an obstacle to the creation, as proposed, of seismic-free areas. It is true that the seismic nature of the petroleum activity must be used in the areas where it is opened for oil exploration. We also believe that it would be wrong to do what is in the second proposal, to put an end to seismic shooting in all areas that have not been opened up. But we definitely have to do the opposite, that is. in the main and most vulnerable areas of fisheries, it is both fully possible and desirable to set out areas where seismic shooting is not intended, and the correct processes for making these balances must be in the management plans for the sea areas. We have the Norwegian Sea for treatment now, but later the Barents Sea and the North Sea come back, and then it is clear that as one part of setting up and safeguarding the most vulnerable areas, these too should be made seismic-free areas, mainly because there is no need to run seismic-shooting to map the petroleum resources if one has decided that in any case it should not be opened up to petroleum activities. Then you'd better have a discussion about whether there's any basis for doing research on more research-based grounds. So, on the left, I would like to thank those who have tabled the proposal. We support proposal No. 1, to request the establishment of seismic-free areas in the future management plans. This is one part of the important work we are doing to improve the provision of Norwegian fishing resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e447	The oil industry is a major industry and has been important for Norway for the past 50 years. Fishing has been an important industry for Norway as far back as 12,000 years for the first constructions in Norway, has brought Norwegian economy unfathomably many times greater values to Norwegian society, and hopefully, if the sea is properly managed, will add values to Norwegian society – and to Norwegian coastal communities – for thousands of years to come. The co-existence of the sea between the fishing industry and the petroleum industry is customs and clothing, and the fact that the co-existence that one claims is there is knowledge-based is also wrong, which I am going to go into here. The regime around seismic oil exploration reveals that there is only rhetoric when it comes to coexistence and knowledge-based management. Today’s principle is: seismic oil screening first – everything else must come after. It's not a co-existence. The question SV raises in this matter is: shall it be so in all the Norwegian sea areas? Should the seismic activity, the petroleum industry shall prevail in all Norwegian sea areas, or may there be a few of the areas the Stortinget has said not to be opened up to petroleum activity and, as we know, is very important for fisheries? Should we keep the petroleum free? That's the little question. Unfortunately, the answer to that is from the three largest parts of Stortinget no, the petroleum industry must prevail everywhere, in all Norwegian sea areas, which reveals that one has an industrial policy consisting of one industry — all others at sea are only parentheses in this context. We have not heard anything from the Minister of Fisheries on this issue. Seismic activity at sea is an extremely important matter for the Minister of Fisheries – nothing we hear from it. The Minister for Oil and Energy and the Minister for Fisheries are also in office. Researchers know too little about the effects of seismic shooting and what it will mean for fish. A compilation of the research in the field from 2009, carried out by the Marine Research Institute, SINTEF, the Swedish Defence Research Institute, the University of Oslo, the University of Bergen and Christian Michelsen Research, assumed that seismic researchers have a scare distance of 18 nautical miles for cod. The shear distance may be greater for herring and other pelagic species with better developed earrings than codfish. The report says: «Several surveys have shown significant catch reductions for fishing boats operating in the vicinity of vessels performing seismic data collection.» A comprehensive investigation was carried out at Nordkappbanken in 1996. The international research suggests that most species of marine mammals will be able to suffer chronic hearing damage if they are closer than 100 metres from the seismic source. Fishermen who know the fish's migration after a thousand years of exchange of experience tell me regularly about extensive damage to the shrinkage of fish. This experience must be serious, too. The conflict between the fishermen and the petroleum industry has been high, but has always been the most serious concern about petroleum weights, as at the time of the implementation in 2006 of a comprehensive government seismic programme for the unopened areas outside the West Sea and Senja – especially in 2008 the level of conflict was high. Seismic activities led the fishing industry to report losses far beyond the responsibility of the State to replace them. During this three-year period, fishermen experienced negative impacts on traditional coastal fishing — by sea, in particular. Also in the Barents Sea we have seen, after the activity has taken place, the same conflict increases. For example, in 2014, criticisms were made. fishermen in the East-Finnmark Seismikskytinga in the Barents Sea south, and they feared the season's flute fishing from Vardø to Honningsvåg. There are many similar types of conflicts — and where the evidence base is deficient. And even though there may be disagreement about the extent of damage to seismic activity, the oil industry has therefore admitted that this is a problem issue. If there are some representatives in this room who feel that the knowledge base is inadequate, they should at least follow the precautionary principle. And if that's not enough, I'll warn you not to continue with this policy when it comes to the sea, when everyone here embraces the positive developments we've seen in seafood. Let it not just be a question of words; let it be a reality too! I would like to take up the proposal we have with the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e471	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e476	Thank you to the rapporteurs for two important proposals. Co-existence cannot mean everyone is going to do everything at once. It must mean, in the case of the fishing industry, that it must continue to be able to operate without being inhibited by an oil industry, which must be historically short, in relation to a long-term fishing industry. It is important to bear in mind that the oil industry has an impact on at least two levels of the fishing industry. It is the close, short-term consequences that we are discussing here, and then we are going to have in the back of our minds the really great consequences that oil companies also have – and will have – for the fishing industry, but which are not yet discussed in the Stortinget. One is increased sea temperatures as a result of global fossil combustion, to which Norway is a very keen contributor. We already see fish species moving in our sea areas on a massive scale. Mackerel fishing in an ice-free ice fjord on Svalbard suggests that very big changes are happening and have not stopped at all. What's going to be the end of that story, we don't know, but it can be intrusive for Norwegian fisheries. It's part of the oil liability. The second is the acidification of particularly cold sea areas, which we have in Norway, and which threaten huge amounts of organisms that depend on calcium in the skeleton, which are important in the ecosystem, and which are food in the fisheries we have ambitions to take care of. That's the big picture. It is therefore important that, in the short term, the fisheries are not hindered by oil operations where this is not necessary. It should be obvious that the main fishing areas are permanently protected from seismics, as we know, making fish move. We have solid documentation for this. It is a direct consequence for fishermen that the fish is being scared away from where it is intended to be fished. It is surprising that we cannot have a large majority supporting the Norwegian fishing industry in this, and it is particularly surprising that the Minister for Fisheries is so uninterested in caring for his own industry in this area. Then we have areas that are not yet open to oil business. In those areas there are fisheries and those fisheries should not be hampered by oil activities and oil exploration which may be totally unnecessary in a long-term perspective. The majority of the population have not yet wanted to take on board the fact that Norway is going to have to limit its oil operations in the near future, but we should at least agree that where the Storting has not even opened up oil activities, where fisheries are not to be subjected to unnecessary inhibiting activities from the oil industry. That is why proposal 2, a sensible proposal, will be supported by the Greens. Then I'll add one thing, and it's that it's of course important to make a clear distinction between basic quater geologic mapping, which is going on – and is to be done – in these areas. This type of mapping is carried out with extremely low energy seismic methods than advanced oil exploration. This, of course, is not an activity of the Greens wanting to block this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e495	As several representatives have been involved, Norway is a leading port. We've built on natural resources in many ways in this country, and we're going to be dependent on that as well. Petroleum industry is clearly the largest marine industry. It gives high employment and extremely high value creation to the community, and so it is going to be in the decades to come. Similarly, we are the world's second largest exporter of fish and seafood, and it's also an industry we're going to develop further. When it comes to the petroleum industry, seismics is a necessary tool at all stages of the operation. Without seismics, we neither get good resource management nor high value creation from the business. From the start of the petroleum industry in Norway in the 1960s, it has been important for the authorities to ensure a good co-existence in which the petroleum and fishery industries can operate, both. It's not either–or, but both–and. Workplaces and value creation from both industries are important for the government. In Norway, we will continue this wise tradition and manage both fishing and petroleum resources in a sustainable way, even in the future, for the benefit of the Norwegian people. Respect for each other's work and the right to operate on a Norwegian base are prerequisites for good cooperation. Co-existence implies that both industries need to adapt to each other, and they do. In some cases, fisheries have to give up for a period of time, otherwise the authorities have to limit when seismic surveys or drilling in oil-bearing layers can be carried out, for example. related to the spawning season, which is important for fishing. A guide has also been issued to improve cooperation between the petroleum industry and the fisheries industry from the departments responsible for these industries in 2013. In the impact study of the Barents Sea south-east, which was carried out not long ago, a marine noise assessment was also carried out. It was clearly shown here that no physical damage has been detected to fish, juveniles or fish larvae due to seismic activity, except in the zones quite close to the sound source, i.e. a few meters, implied five meters, from the sound source. Seismic data collection has been carried out on Norwegian soil for decades and no correlation between seismics and population sizes has been established. Yes, it is a scary effect for a period, but this can be handled through the regulations I have mentioned earlier. The proposal for seismic-free zones on Norwegian pedestal will therefore ultimately affect our well-being through reduced revenues to the state and is something I would strongly warn against. It will also break the long and good Norwegian tradition of facilitating coexistence between different users of the sea, which has been central to our policies since the 1960s. For proposal No 2 in the proposal for a representative: it has a crucial role to play in the management of our resources. Only the State can enter and perform seismic shooting and, where appropriate, shallow drilling associated with those areas not open to petroleum activity on Norwegian base. The proposal put on the table here by the minority will cause only disadvantages for the Norwegian state and thus the community. There are no concrete gains from that proposal, it will only prevent us from gaining knowledge about our natural resources and thus taking care of our national interests. It will fundamentally break with our Norwegian, proud tradition of fact and knowledge-based management of natural resources and the marine environment if we are not to be able by the state to carry out this kind of monitoring of natural resources. And we must never get there that we don't get knowledge as a basis for the decisions to be made regarding future possible petroleum activity in new areas on the base. There is knowledge that the representatives of this house also need in their treatment of future areas of Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e514	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e520	The Council of State emphasises that both petroleum activity and fishing in the same area can be achieved, that this is an interaction that is possible. At the same time, although there may be disagreement about where, there is a discussion about having really petroleum-free areas. We have a consensus in this big period on both the Moravian Bank, the Lofoten, the Western Pole, the Senja, the Jan Mayen and the ice edge, where there is a discussion about exactly what basis we're going to use. In the future too, there will be areas in which it is decided not to be a petroleum activity. For the left, it is quite clear that these are an absolute minimum. My question becomes a little more fundamental: in areas where a decision is made, and it is clear that it is not going to be a petroleum activity, will it not be possible, in the opinion of the Council of State, to have seismic-free areas in the management plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e527	For me, it is essential that we have the best possible knowledge of the resources available both on the base and elsewhere, because we are a natural resource nation. The political agreement that, for a period of time, the possibility of petroleum activity should not be continued in certain areas does not mean that it should be so forever. It is important not to establish zones with a ban on seismics, possibly shallow drilling, because it is an instrument for the state – i.e. the community, all of us – to have the best possible knowledge base for any subsequent assessment of whether these areas should remain inaccessible to the petroleum industry or whether, at some point, one would nevertheless choose to open up to petroleum activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e532	Nevertheless – what is in proposal No. 1, it's just a matter of realizing that these are only decisions that last for a four-year period, that they have a greater long-term perspective by including them in the management plans. With decisions in the management plans on petroleum-free areas, that is, the basis we have for the activity we are going to have in the marine areas: would it be a problem to make these seismic-free areas as well? I can't see that contradiction. In any case, once the decision has been taken, this could be what will give extra care to those areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e537	It's important that we take on board that new knowledge comes on and on. Knowledge must always be at the bottom, facts must be at the bottom of our assessment of whether we are going to use the resources in an area or one. Locking up one of the main instruments, seismics, to provide us with new knowledge of the resource base – new knowledge of how oil and gas activities play together with our fishing resources – will be a very little wise policy. We must have an opportunity for future politicians, future generations – to put it in a wider perspective – to also make assessments. Then it's going to lock an area through a decision that's outlined here, not sensible politics, from the government's point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e542	The Council of State said in its reply to Elvesuen that it was important for future generations. For previous generations and for future generations, fishing will be far more important for wealth, growth and the future as a nation than the oil industry will be. The time perspective we're going to stick to here is maybe -- if we're going to be part of the government's thinking -- 50 years, maximum. My first question to the Council of State is, from a 100-year perspective, will the petroleum industry be as important as the seafood industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e549	It is always difficult to predict the future, and there are different perspectives as to how long oil and gas activities will be the most important industry in Norway. That we will have a revolution in the energy mix in the world, there is no doubt about it. We need to build renewable energy and after each phase out oil and gas activities. But Norway has large and important resources that we are going to produce and deliver to the market, because there is a need for oil and gas in the world for decades to come. Whether it's 50, 70 or 100 years, remains to be seen. There is a need for oil and gas to far more than fuel, i.e. for incineration. There are a number of products that depend on oil and gas as raw materials. The fact that we in Norway — in a stable part of the world — have the potential to deliver these resources, I believe, is absolutely crucial. Therefore, I believe that the design is the opposite between oil and gas and fishing, not present. It's possible to get both of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e558	That's not what we in SV invented. There are researchers, fishermen, etc. Points to it. The Minister pointed to one research report, while there is one case of others showing that there is actually a conflict. The head of government of the state council here has traveled around the country and the beach and opened the one plant after another, has talked up the seafood and said that this is future to Norway, etc. Several other members of the government, including in the party of the Council of State here, have spoken up the marine nutrition: this is the future. Nevertheless, one ends by saying that, regardless of their importance for industries other than petroleum, absolutely all marine areas must be subject to the same regime: the petroleum industry must have priority, regardless of its consequences. My final question to the Council of State is, based on what's on the research front, what do we know about the damage to seismic activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e567	We know that there is very little direct damage to physical fishing resources, related to seismic activity. The crucial thing is that we have to be able to have two tanks in our head at the same time here, to take care of both the fishing industry and the petroleum industry. I am one of those who cheers on the seafood industry – I have a background as a fisherman in my time – and I see that we have a great potential to develop both the conventional fisheries and the farming industry. But we don't have to construct any greater contradictions than it actually is. Based on the dialogue I have had with the fisheries organisations: yes, they are concerned with seismics, but they are also concerned about having a good dialogue with the petroleum industry to adapt which industries should take precedence and at what time. Some restrictions are imposed on the petroleum industry by the authorities in order to avoid further damage to the fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e574	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e592	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e601	Let me start by thanking the proposers, Marit Arnstad, Liv Signe Navarsete and Janne Sjelmo Nordås, for making very concrete proposals on how we can achieve the goal of saving 10 TWh in the building sector in Norway by 2030. Unlike most people, most energy use in Norway is fossil. Most people, even in the power industry, think the opposite. The reason is that our electricity production is fossil-free when the gas power plant in Mongstad is finally shut down. However, when most energy use is fossil, Norway is one of the world’s most energy-using countries per capita, and emissions per capita are half the EU average per person, we understand the need to reduce energy use and reduce emissions. It does not matter to the climate on the globe where CO 2 emissions come – whether they come in Norway or elsewhere. That is why we need to cut our energy use, reduce the use of energy in construction, cut emissions and release energy that can replace fossil energy use in Norway or our neighbouring countries. In Norway, therefore, we understand the need to reduce energy use and thus reduce emissions. But when the government presented its big news of energy policy last spring, this perspective was completely omitted. The size had asked in advance for a plan to phase out fossil energy use. We didn't get that. The Energy Communication focused more on the fact that there was a surplus of power in Norway, with low energy prices as a result, and reduced energy efficiency instead of taking the challenge from the bulk of GDP and using the surplus of power and energy efficiency to reduce fossil energy use in Norway and cut greenhouse gas emissions. I would just like to briefly point out that the IEA in all its reports points to energy efficiency improvement as the most important response to greenhouse gas emissions both nationally and globally. Fortunately, the bulk of the population would differ and pressure a unanimous decision, which read: ‘The government is asked to set a target of 10 TWh of reduced energy use in existing buildings compared to the current level.’ The government hasn't. The government has not set a target of 10 TWh reduction by 2030. The government has not said that the Minister of Oil and Energy is responsible for achieving the goal. In the 2017 draft budget, reference was made to the forthcoming Enova agreement and to further reporting to the Stortinget in 2018, i.e. one year delay. When the Enova agreement was published, it was not a reference to the stated objectives of the Storting and no reporting obligation for the amount of energy efficiency in building Enova to report. This is serious, because Enova's efforts to build dwellings have previously been slaughtered by the National Audit Office, which should lead to a denser, not more solvable, follow-up by the government. When the Council of State spoke at the Enova Conference last year, construction was mentioned, but the government's adopted target of 10 TWh reduction in construction was not at all mentioned by the Council of State. These are serious and harsh words, but I want to describe the behaviour of the government as arrogant when you deliberately let go of follow-up decisions. So a year later we're there that the Storting must once again decide to whip the government further. Today, therefore, we unanimously – again – adopt the following: «The government is asked to present a plan for the implementation of 10 TWh energy saving in buildings by 2018 in proposals for the state budget. The plan shall include a concrete phasing-out plan in construction and an instrument package with existing and new instruments to achieve the objective.’.» This is a good decision, but it should be unnecessary. In the proposal of the representatives of the Central Party there are several proposals. It is suggested that craftsmen should receive support to promote energy-efficient solutions as they are ‘hand-on’ and know technology better than consumers do. It is proposed that the public should use its role as major purchasers and tenants of construction. Energy class A is required in all buildings. A reward scheme for municipal and county construction is proposed on the basis of a model from the public transport and cycle routes reward scheme – which works very well. Support scheme for energy management in professional buildings is proposed. All of these are good suggestions, unfortunately none of them get a majority. They are supported by SV, and I expect that the proposer will explain more about them. In addition, there are several proposals promoted by the minority which do not receive a majority. SV is a co-proposal provider for all. I would therefore like to address all these proposals and be satisfied with what the Committee has achieved to tighten up the objectives we set ourselves a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e634	Then the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e645	The rapporteur has given a good account of this matter. In June 2016, we in the Workers' Party joined the target of 10 TWh reduced energy use in existing buildings compared to today's level. Today, the government will be asking for a plan for how we can achieve this goal by 2030 in connection with the state budget for next year. It is necessary to take as a signal from the Stortinget about an impatience towards the government, in order to specify the decision from last year. The main argument for energy efficiency improvement in buildings is that it accounts for about 40 pst. of energy consumption in Norway. Lower energy use and the production of energy in Norwegian construction will release energy to other sectors, such as transport and industry. I also believe that this decision, if followed by a concrete degressive plan, will lead to a more climate-friendly behaviour because one becomes more conscious of one's own consumption of, among other things. current. However, in order for us in the Workers' Party to give priority to funding for measures to reduce energy use in existing buildings, we need to know that greenhouse gas emissions will decrease. The letter of response from the Council of State to questions about the magnitude of greenhouse gas reductions states: ‘In Norway, energy use in existing buildings is mainly covered by electricity. In addition, district heating and bioenergy make important contributions to the heating of buildings. [[...]] This means that greenhouse gas emissions are low. According to the SSB, the emissions from heating in service industries and households were below 1 million. tonnes in 2015.’ By comparison, emissions from the transport sector were 16.7 million tonnes in 2015, according to the Environment Directorate – to put it in perspective. However, I am also pleased that another response from the Council confirms that it is appropriate ‘for measures that have so low costs and/or high benefits that the first energy results on the road towards 10 TWh reduction in energy use in 2030 can be profitable to implement’. The proposal, which today has a majority, is one piece to reduce energy use in existing buildings and not least to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the building sector. Another important measure is the ban on oil firing, which will be in place by 2020 and the latest building technical regulation. I would particularly like to highlight a comment that the Workers' Party is in favour of, on the need for further focus on recycling in the construction industry. According to the Norwegian Green Building Council, it turns out that the Norwegian construction industry has gradually become good at sorting waste in new construction projects of a certain size. What we're not very good at is waste reduction, and here it's an improvement potential. You can, for example: look at instruments that can increase the degree of pre-manufacturing, industrialisation and direct re-use of construction materials. In general, there is a high potential to increase the level of material recovery. The amount going to recovery is slightly increasing, but so is the total amount. Much of the inorganic waste is still going to landfill. Most of the organic waste, wood and plastics are still combusted. It is worrying about greenhouse gas emissions. We do not promote proposals together with the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens that this must be incorporated into TEK 10, but I would nevertheless like to signal that we are positive for a review of this area – then we will see what the big news about the circular economy will contain. Finally, in this article, I would like to challenge the Council of State whether Enova is going to be the only instrument to achieve the 10 TWh target. Last year, the National Audit Office came up with a crushing criticism of Enova’s work on energy efficiency improvement in construction. Households pay more than 450 million each year. kr to the Energy Fund, and historically only has 10 pst. the contribution of households has been repaid to owners of dwellings in the form of investment aid for energy efficiency improvement or energy conversion measures. Although the Stortinget has asked Enova to increase the level of ambition through tax deductions, concrete measures and the earmarking of a minimum of 250 million. kr annually, Enova is unable to deliver. They haven't used up a single year the minimum amount of 250 million. kr. So what does the Council of State really think about Enova's role in following up the decision that we made in June, and the decision that we are making today in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e671	Energy efficiency is important, and I thought I'd take a positive angle – in fact, I think we're going to be able to do this. But first a little reflection: the first time I went into energy efficiency improvement was in the mid-1990s, when I had some leverage in the energy industry. Then the energy companies got money transferred through the income system, and we were to be responsible for energy efficiency improvement. We ended up getting a fairly good competent consulting industry – I choose to call it that – and we were also introduced to savings banks and savings shower. The next round where I met the concept was at the end of the 1990s, when I was involved in a project on eco-efficient housing. It contained much more than that with energy saving – a bit of what the representative Ljunggren had in it, namely that one could build houses in such a way that once one was to clean them up, one could clean them in a good and environmentally efficient way. But then you started looking at how to place houses on the plots, how to use the sunlight by placing the houses south, south-west, and you had to start after-insulating north and north-west – at least north – because that's where it's cold when it blows and it's winter. It was also an exciting project. Unfortunately, we couldn't implement it, because it became a project of a little special interest, and unfortunately it wasn't very interested in Fauske at the time to get it through. But anyway, they had put it on the agenda. Also, new systems began to appear, and I would say that then you saw a picture of what was called small-scale water-borne heating systems, which became part of this. You started talking about geothermal, and you started with pellets and some other types of energy to warm up houses. So to today, where we're going to make a decision asking that we get a plan for how we're going to achieve these goals. Why am I so optimistic? Yes, because I think what was previously of particular interest is no longer of particular interest. The world has moved, and most of us who are going to build new houses – or are building new houses – will build low-energy houses, even houses that do not use energy, but also sell energy online. We have also made this possible – as we amended the Energy Act – through this with a corporate and functional separation, so that as a customer and user you can now be guaranteed neutrality when you are online for the future. In addition, it is not surprising that this house has changed the planning and building law and technical regulations over many years, so it is quite obvious that new houses to be built and houses to be renovated to such an extent that the new technical regulations are going to turn on – old houses – will have a much lower energy use than they have today, and you are going to have houses that are “energy-saving” in the years to come. In addition, we are facing digitisation and a new way of thinking about smart meters and networks. This is going to make those who are going to buy new systems in their homes, new electrical appliances, etc., sniff at when it's cheapest to use power, and when you can do this most efficiently. Not least that we change the car park and make it electrical, I think that many of us are going to use electric cars in the future as a package to be self-sufficient in periods where in the future it might be more expensive to buy electricity than it is today. I believe that we are facing a change in how to buy and sell electricity in the coming years. So I'm actually pretty optimistic that this is what we're going to do. I am quite optimistic about the decisions that have been taken, through the decisions that we have made in this Chamber during this period, among other things. by looking at Enova, not least what we've said about the public going ahead. We've just changed the law on public acquisitions, where environmental requirements are an important part of these things. I expect that the public that builds will go ahead. They're going to buy services in the future when they're going to rent construction, at those that offer the buildings that have the best environmental requirements as well, and that will make others go after. So I expect that when we get that plan through the state budget in 2018, it will be reasonably easy for our minister and our government to present a plan that will enable us to reach the 10 TWhs, without excessive costs for those who are going to achieve the targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e692	Green shifts are not just about producing more clean energy, green shifts are also about using energy more efficiently. Fossil fuels currently account for about 80 pst. global energy production. At the same time, according to the International Energy Agency, 1.4 billion people in the world lack access to electricity. Twice as many use only refuelling or contaminating sources for heating and cooking, i.e. approx. 43 pst. by the population of the world. At the same time, the world's population is growing. We're going to cut out the sources of 80 pst. of our energy, at the same time 43 pst. of the world's population is going to increase its energy consumption strongly, and we are going to be more people – this over 10 to 30 years. It's obvious that this can't be solved without at the same time reducing waste with energy. The size has adopted an ambitious target for energy efficiency improvement of 10 TWh by 2030, and the Christian People's Party is pleased that the entire Committee supports in asking the government to explain how this will be achieved in the 2018 budget. This is an important issue in order to bring down unnecessary energy use in Norwegian construction. Moreover, it is regrettable that there was no majority in favour of proposals that would enable energy use in commercial buildings to be cut. There is a need for a regulatory framework to provide regular energy monitoring in larger businesses that can trigger cost-effective energy efficiency measures. The Christian People's Party also believes that it is regrettable that the proposal that the government should provide an investigation into how the public as a tenant can claim at least energy class A in all new rental contracts, nor does it get a majority. This would be an action that could stimulate the construction of more buildings in energy class A. We look forward to the government's presentation in the 2018 state budget on how to reach 10 TWh. This will be an important tool to reduce energy use in Norwegian construction. This is absolutely necessary in a green conversion, and we have great expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e705	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good job and a thorough job, which has also led us today to adopt a proposal that is well in line with what was also in the proposal for a representative, which can move us further on this issue. As several speakers have pointed out, construction accounts for a significant share of energy consumption and also results in greenhouse gas emissions that can be reduced. That is why, in the view of the Centre Party, it is important to both housekeepers with energy and our energy use and to implement clean energy measures, which can in turn contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We believe that there are many jobs in it, we believe there are many opportunities for the construction industry in it, and we also believe that we as housing owners are going to become far more aware of these issues in the years to come. The size was decided in the context of last year's energy message processing target of 10 TWh reduced energy use. But there's a need to move on. This needs to be followed up. For this reason, the Central Party is very pleased that an overall committee is now in favour of proposal No. 1 of the proposed document 8, which is a plan for achieving this objective by 2030, a type of plan that must include both a concrete degression and instruments to achieve this objective. So the statement shows that when we discuss individual instruments, we can disagree, and there are many of them that don't get a majority today. However, it is clear that in further work on a plan and a degressive plan, one must also return to several of the instruments that today do not necessarily receive a majority in the Grand Duchy. It is true with the building sector that it is an important non-quota area, but it is often a debate and a debate on the building sector that is being overlooked. I think it has to do with a sector where there is no single overall answer, but there are many and varied responses. Many of them aren't that big either, but they can be important. The proposal for a representative that we have promoted refers to energy efficiency in buildings. But it is clear that the contribution of the building sector in terms of greenhouse gas emission cuts is more than just that. It's also about the way you build, the building materials and the use of buildings. It is an important part of climate work to look at the building sector as a whole, and then energy efficiency and use were the subject of this Document 8. The attitude is rather carefully reviewed both in terms of occupational construction and in terms of households, and also the fact that the public has a responsibility to take the lead in this work and to make demands on its suppliers and on its own activities. There is also a need to increase the breadth and competence of the craft sector, not least in relation to these issues. As I said, the centre party is very pleased that the overall proposal in document 8 has a majority here today. We believe that this provides a good basis for getting started and moving on. Then we record that many of the other publishers that we are also in, do not get a majority here today, but we believe that there are proposals that one will have to discuss in the years to come. President, if there are any suggestions that the Center Party is behind, which have not yet been taken up, I will take them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e726	The President thinks all the proposals have been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e731	I would also like to start by thanking the Committee and the rapporteur for their work on this matter. When we look at the decision we're about to make, it's a nice follow-up to the energy message and the decision we made last year. Then left was pleased that we first got a civil agreement to set the goal of reducing energy consumption by 10 TWh by 2030, and then that we got a unanimous collapse to join the same thing. An additional measure is important, both because we need to use thisenergy to continue to reduce emissions in Norway and because we are becoming an increasingly integrated part of a common European energy system, where energy efficiency improvements in Norway will also provide a basis for reducing emissions elsewhere in Europe. Energy efficiency is often simple on the one hand, but on the other hand it is demanding. We've done a lot in this big time period, for example. through Enova, which rates in industry and otherwise on an additional measure, and we have established a rights-based support scheme for households, where they can receive support for an additional measure. They can also receive tax credits at once. And it's been followed up – as was pointed out earlier – both within technical regulations and within public procurement, so that you can set ever new demands for energy efficiency improvement. There are two basics that are important here. One is that we have to follow up the decision, which is very good. We have to get a plan for how to reach a 10 TWh reduction. The second is that, through the EEA Agreement, we need to link ourselves to the EU's Energy Efficiency Directive. It is clear that that directive will require many of the measures we are proposing in this matter, and much will come there to achieve the objective in 2030. I am pleased that the government has signaled that it wants to include the Energy Efficiency Directive under the EEA Agreement, but I am impatient to get this in place as soon as possible. To the proposals themselves: we are also happy to have a proper decision with a plan. The left is also involved in several proposals. I believe that, for example: in the case of households, it would be appropriate to look at a pilot project with support for craftsmen offering additional measures. Expecting the individual owner to figure this out by himself is difficult to imagine, but I think it would be right to look at whether it is possible to go through craft companies to get a better market and a better awareness of the opportunities we have forincreased measures in households as well. In the case of professional construction: Once again – if the Energy Efficiency Directive is put in place, there will be a need for an energy mapping on larger buildings. It's right there. However, we believe that one could – at least as determined, as the proposal is – propose regulatory energy management in the operation of larger buildings. It's a fact that it's primarily in the operation of these larger buildings you get the biggest gain. You can get it pretty simple. It's not just that you have to rebuild and invest to reduce energy consumption. It's about operating the buildings better than what we're doing today. In the future, we need to be able to systematize better than we are now. The last thing is that the public has to go ahead, that we get energy efficiency improvement as a natural requirement into public acquisitions and into rental contracts. This has been followed up in new provisions for public acquisitions, but we could also have made decisions here. I think there has been a very positive discussion in the committee. I believe that we are now taking the next major natural step towards achieving the goal of reducing by 10 TWh by asking for a plan, and that plan – together with including the Energy Efficiency Directive into the EEA Agreement – will be a very good basis for achieving what everyone has voted for, that we will achieve energy efficiency improvement by 10 TWh by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e753	Thank you to the rapporteurs for their good proposals, to the rapporteur for good work and to several parties in the committee who, together with us, have made good proposals that do not always have a majority but bring the world forward. When we're talking about energy efficiency in existing building masses, it's in place to remember what a man's written in his last book -- as part of you've probably read. It says: ‘We set ambitious targets for emissions cuts to be achieved at some point in time. As the date approaches and we see that it becomes difficult, we stop talking about this goal, and instead set new goals further ahead." So it's Jens Stoltenberg who's talking about emissions targets. He might as well have talked about energy efficiency improvement in exitating building mass. When the representative Arnstad presented a report from the sample she led on this substance in 2010, they concluded that it was realistic to take out 10 TWh energy efficiency improvements in existing building mass by 2020. Now we are approaching 2020, and then the Storting is pushing in the familiar style the goal ten years ahead, to 2030. That is why Norwegian climate policy is slow. Unfortunately, there is nothing in today's tool package that speaks for us to achieve that goal in 2030. Therefore, it is very important that the Storting decide to ask the government to present a plan for achieving this objective. I hope – even though the many good proposals in this position do not get a majority – that the government will use them as an inspiration for concrete actions that will actually lead to us not having to push this goal again. It would be embarrassing, because it's the Storting that's going to discuss the achievement of results. Of course, there is a general discussion about the need for energy efficiency improvement in an economy that is flooded with cheap clean energy. So first of all, it's important to establish that it makes sense to streamline. There is also an indirect good climate effect of doing so. With Sweden's nuclear power as a joke – still – there are great opportunities for us to need all the energy we can produce. So, of course, this is a proposal for the Green Party, while stressing the need for a comprehensive plan for the use of climate and energy in Norway to be put forward by the Grand Government and the Government so that we can see the full impact of the measures. Maybe the climate message we're going to get will give us some of that. That would have been a good progress. So I'm going to draw up a couple of the suggestions I especially hope the government will be inspired by. One is real tax deduction schemes that will actually work. The second is to grant aid schemes to craft workers. Private households cannot build up the skills that are needed here, it is the suppliers who need to build up that competence, and we need to put a proper effort on that. Finally, on the proposal to focus on re-use in buildings: here we have an example of the fact that the Storting can choose to take advantage of the opportunity when it is most important. If we are careful to build the new buildings and carry out the rehabilitations that come with the effort to save energy – or make energy use more efficient – we will beat two flies in one taste; we will get products and buildings that can be recycled and that contribute to the circular economy that the Storting in other contexts is committed to implementing and having carried out as we approach 2030. If, on the other hand, we do what the majority of people are doing, unfortunately, to push the proposal to get recycling and reuse into the TEK regulations, we are at risk of implementing an energy efficiency improvement that is, in isolation, radiant, but that leaves us with a recycling and reuse problem that we did not have to have and that we had to use energy and money to solve. This is probably an example of the fact that the level of ambition for implementing a comprehensive environmental policy is too low. The proposal lies here, it gets pretty much mentioned, it should be supported, and we hope that all parties that are positive to more overall recycling thinking will now be able to work effectively to get recycling into TEK as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e779	First, let me state that, like the broad majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, I am also concerned about an additional measure. It's always healthy to house well with our resources. In the case of the use of energy in construction, it has been mentioned that it accounts for a large proportion of energy consumption in Norway, about 10 %. 40 pst. However, this use of energy is mainly covered by electricity from renewable sources. Here we differ to a very large extent from the situation in other countries. An effort specifically targeted at 10 TWh in the construction sector will therefore not contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway as much as it would be possible to see in similar countries around us. There are probably other measures that will have a greater impact on CO 2 emissions, related to the ban on the firing of mineral oil in existing buildings, the ban on the use of fossil heating in new buildings and the efforts to phase out fossil oil in district heating. Nevertheless, it is important to think about an additional measure in the construction sector. Efficient energy use is always important and, as many have been involved, this can contribute to the release of renewable energy to other sectors, to industry, to the transport sector and to exports, based on an ever closer integration into the energy market in the rest of Europe. Enova is an important instrument in this work, also in the construction sector, and in the period 2012 to 2016 it granted more than one. Three billion. kr in support of energy and climate action in buildings. It has helped to make the use of energy in construction more efficient and less polluting, and in the new agreement concluded with Enova by the Ministry, both aims and targets to build up under the fact that Enova will continue to have a high focus on the construction sector. However, other measures are also important. Let me just repeat some of those that are already mentioned, and a couple more. High energy efficiency requirements in new buildings through technical regulations are of course. The Ecodesign Directive with requirements for energy use in appliances is important, which is again part of the building. I have already mentioned the upcoming ban on mineral oil for heating. Electricity consumption charges help to have an incentive on the part of the consumer to reduce their power consumption, and the AMS roll-out will also help raise awareness as a consumer. In addition, the energy labelling scheme for barley comes. As of last year, responsibility for the operation and further development of the energy label scheme has been transferred to Enova, and it can bring good synergies with Enova’s information activities and programme development for the construction area. I am concerned that the assessment of instruments that affect the use of energy in construction must be based on a good understanding of the key drivers of energy use in construction. The Ministry has therefore asked the NVE to look further at the factors that drive energy use in this sector and the current measures that can have an impact on lower energy use. As previously notified to Stortinget, I will return to the state budget in 2018 with a presentation of the overall work around a reduction of 10 TWh in the construction sector. So until the end short of a few of the posts in the handling of this matter. First, to the case rapporteur, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, who stressed that most of the energy use in Norway is fossil. It's probably not right – it's just wrong. We have a renewable share in our total energy use of 69 pst, well over half, and that gives us a completely unique position in the world context. Then I would like to comment briefly on what goes on at the IEA. They are very concerned that we need to spend our resources on the most reasonable measures only when it comes to cutting CO 2 emissions. I fully agree with that. I have today met with the Vice-Chairman of the IEA, who has presented his Norway report to the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Norwegian press. They stress that we need to have the best possible resource management in this area too, simply take the lowest fruits first, i.e. the highest possible CO 2 cut at the lowest cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e807	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e812	In my post, I asked the Council of State what he thought about Enova's role in following up the decision that we are making today. I registered that the council did not respond to it in its post, probably because it was a little short of time. That's why he's going to have the opportunity now. Is the Council of State thinking that Enova should be the only instrument, or can you perhaps look at the Directorate of Building Quality, that the remains of the Low Energy Programme can be put there? They already have competence in construction. They may have a greater and stronger capacity to prioritise the necessary measures to reduce the consumption of energy in the building masses.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e819	I thank the representative for this opportunity to follow up. That is quite correct – barely with time. In the case of Enova, it's our most important tool. It's not very important from my point of view who does the job, but that we get the job done. We – from the Biggest side as well as from the government – must always be concerned about this when we discuss different instruments. Then I am a little back again to make sure that we get the most cost-effective CO 2 cut and use the resources where they can best give effect. This is the basis for the division of labour we have between the government, at the department, and Enova. We put the frames and targets, interacting with the Storting, and then it's Enova that's operationalizing this, to use the resources where they can give the best CO 2 reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e832	I believe that the Council of State will not now signal that there are others who are going to do this job. But the situation is – as I also said in the main post – that households pay 450 million each year. to the Energy Fund. The size has asked Enova to increase the level of ambition — through tax deductions, concrete measures and designation. With the 250 million. kr annually is unable to deliver Enova. There has been a crushing report from the National Audit Office on Enova's work on energy efficiency improvement in construction. I understand that the Council of State will not leave this responsibility to anyone else now. But what will the Council of State do to increase Enova's role in the work to be done, and to take it from Enova's side, as the intentions of the Storting are?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e839	We have an ongoing dialogue with Enova and evaluate the measures they have presented, based on the agreement concluded between the Ministry and Enova. There may be a need for adjustments, we consider that at all times. Our return to the 2018 Budget Storting, with an overall package related to achieving the target of 10 TWh, provides a basis for reviewing and assessing the need to activate some of these measures, or replacing some with new measures. The most important are the instruments, not necessarily who manages them on behalf of the majority of the population and the government. I would like to stress that in the construction sector, there are many opportunities to contribute to anincreased measure; it is not just through the Enova instrument. I listed some of them instead. We need to present a comprehensive package that can help us achieve these goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e848	As I said in my post, I believe that one of the most important things we can do is to link ourselves to the EU Energy Efficiency Directive. It will provide many of the tools, along with our own plans that we're going to put forward. These days, in the context of the revised national budget, the Council of State has been briefed on the development of the EU Energy Union. Of course, there is a lot of talk about the winter package, which was presented before Christmas last year. After all, we are going to try together with the EU to reach an agreement on reducing our emissions by 40 pst. by 2030, but the winter package also targets both renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement, at 30 pst. reduction up to 2030. In the past, the government has intended that only one target, namely emission reductions, should be adhered to. Then my question is: does the Council of State see that it is also right to have requirements for energy efficiency improvement and renewable targets?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e855	The most important thing for a nation such as Norway, which has such a peculiar energy regime — with some 100 pst. renewable electricity through its hydropower – is enough to think: how can we achieve our CO 2 reduction targets? Nevertheless, energy efficiency is important, because – as I explained in my contribution – it can help reduce emissions in other sectors. If it's right to set your own goal for it, you'll see. However, I note that the International Energy Agency, as pointed out in the debate, is very clear that perhaps the most important measure – at least globally and in a wider perspective than only in Norway, in isolation – to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement is that we are better housed with our energy. Of course, there is something we in Norway also have to take over. If we're going to set our own numerical goal for it, we're going to have to get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e865	I am always pleased with the opportunity to teach the Minister of Oil and Energy the facts about Norwegian energy production and power systems, because it is not, in fact, as the Minister of Oil and Energy says, that most of the energy use in Norway is fossil; it is only if you remove all fossil energy use offshore. I would believe most people in this room would agree that what is happening on a Norwegian base is actually happening on a Norwegian base and is Norwegian emissions. If this is taken into account, approximately 173 TWh are fossil energy use, while more than 140 TWh are renewablely produced in Norway. But let's put that aside. I have a question for the Council of State. It's very encouraging, I think, that we have to come back one year after we decided in the Energy Communication that a 10 TWh target should be set in construction, and then the government hasn't. Why does the Council of State think that it must take over a year to follow up the Storting decision to reach a target of 10 TWh energy reduction in construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e872	This is simply because we have a slightly different situation than many other countries, which I have been dealing with. Today, we have a large share of renewables in our construction sector. There's very little fossil energy in there. If we are to achieve a reduction, an energy efficiency improvement, which is cost-effective, where the main focus is CO 2 emissions and their reduction, we need to carefully assess the measures so that we do not now put in place expensive measures to achieve that target, in isolation, at 10 TWh in the construction sector when perhaps the resources should have been used in a wider way to ensure that we get the most CO 2 cut in the non-quota sector. It is important for the government to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, to which we have committed ourselves, and then we have to see the instruments in context, and it takes some time. I mentioned a number of measures that affect the construction sector in isolation in my main post instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e886	What I hear the council says is that he's taking a rematch on the goals that Stortinget has set. We said very clearly that we would have a 10 TWh target. What the Council of State is now saying is that it may not be the fun thing to do. But we've taken that assessment. We've said, and we've decided, we're going to have a 10 TWh target for energy use in construction, and that's because we think it's sensible policy. Then it's the government's job to follow it up, not to take a rematch or to say that this may not be the most sensible and effective way to do it. It was not a good answer to my question, but an answer to why the Council of State has not come any way during the year that has passed. I have an equally serious question that I want to address with the Council of State, and it's about fossil heating of barley. In his speeches, he said that the government was going to impose a ban on mineral oil for the heating of barley. But that is not what the Stortinget has said. In Stortinget, a joint committee said that we should have a ban on all fossil energy used for building heating. Is it the Council of State now saying, to interpret as if the government is once again choosing to go against the Great Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e895	Firstly, the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås must hear very poorly if he now heard that I took a rematch on the goal of 10 TWh energy efficiency improvement in the construction sector. I didn't say that. I said that there are a number of measures that need to beassessed – whether it is of the type of ‘enhancing’ action through the Enova system or through other legislation that we have listed through this debate. The goal lies there, and we will deliver on it and come back to it in the 2018 budget, as explained earlier, and long before this proposal for a representative was promoted here in the Chamber. So to the second question related to fossil warming in new buildings. What I said at the Chair instead was that the ban on fuelling with mineral oil in existing buildings, the ban on fossil heating in new buildings and the efforts to phase out fossil oil in district heating combined will contribute to a greater reduction in CO 2 emissions than an isolated target of 10 TWh energy emission reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e905	But in what the Council of State says, there is not a ban on all fossil heating of existing buildings, and that's what the Biggest Energy Message asked for. I can find that committee position afterwards, I have it on my own computer in my place. So that's what we said: we're going to have to ban all the fossil heating of barley. If what the Council of State is now saying is that we are going to have a ban on all fossil heating of new buildings, but only the ban on oil in existing buildings, it is something different from what the Stortinge has agreed to. The government has spent four years presenting this, and has not yet come to an end, but before the government and the Council of State – it is not this Council of State that is going to do this, but the Minister of Environment, but I expect the Council of State to join in – doing the job of presenting this, I would ask them to take a new look at the Committee's position on the Energy Communication, which is to say that all fossil warming is to be banned. Otherwise, I would like to thank the Council of State for actually answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e914	The government is going to come back and follow up the previous decision on the roll-out, and I can assure the representative that. Then we'll look at the concrete instruments and how this is to be implemented, but we'll follow up on the will to grow expressed by previous decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e919	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e937	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e946	Let me start by thanking the proposers for a highly justified proposal. Removing barriers to the introduction of zero-emission cars and to zero-emission technologies in the transport sector is essential, we will achieve the climate objectives set in the Storting. Moreover, it is particularly important if we are to comply with Storting’s overall decision to base all new car sales from 2025 on zero-emission technology. If we don't remove the barriers early, we will obviously come into a situation where it becomes impossible to carry out a new car sale from 2025 based on zero-emission technology. The proposal that has been put forward intends to remove barriers. As I see it, it's a pleasure for me to say that the bulk of the population wants to remove some of the barriers that are essential for just being able to have access to zero-emission technology as a solution to their own transport needs, and it's primarily about everyone living in some system, either housing or joint, actually having the opportunity to build an electric car charging point. Yesterday, the Stortinge dealt with the removal of a restriction on ownership alliance. Opening was granted in order to be able to require a charging point or to be granted the charging point-related rights. Today we are dealing with this for housing and cohabitation. The majority of the committee is promoting three proposals, and I will comment briefly on them. Firstly, it is a clear majority, with the exception of the governmental parties, who promote a proposal for a decision ensuring the right of residence of owners and uniting a right to set up a loading point, unless there is a factual reason why such establishment cannot take place. It is quite essential that the Storting clears this particular relationship now in order to make a predictable path up to 2025 in terms of new car sales with zero-emission technology. The second point that a Joint Committee minus the Advance Party is promoting is Decision II, in which we are very clear from the Storting asking the Government to consider how to introduce requirements for new constructions and constructions subject to major modifications to be ready-to-charge, not for construction where a loading point is established, but for the construction of a building body which is designed and completed. It is also a very important point if we are to be able to achieve the objectives set by Stortinget. The third proposal that I want to stress the importance of is that we now see the urgency of putting into practice some of the things that the Stortinget was all about saying last year when we dealt with the energy message, that all new car sales from 2025 should be based on zero-emission technology. A majority, minus the government parties, is asking the government to propose concrete measures and instruments already in the state budget for 2018, so that we can realise what has been said in the Stortinget. The three proposals are quite significant, we shall succeed in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. What's amazing is that the government parties are not proposing Decision I. To me, securing housing rights and sharing the right to install charging points is completely incomprehensible that the government parties are not in – completely incomprehensible, I do not understand it. That the Progress Party will not share in the fact that new buildings and major conversions will be ready-to-charge, will be at the disposal of the Progress Party itself. Understand the one who can. It is unwise not to be clear on it in the order from Stortinget now. Finally, in Decision III, we are asking for concrete and more action related to the fact that all new car sales from 2025 should be based on zero-emission technology. That the government parties there will not be able to support what the government parties participated in last summer is amazing. And, not least, the thumb that the Minister for Climate and Environment showed, should now be reduced to the government parties' attitude to introduce what is going to happen from 2025 in the new car sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e967	The address paper today writes that Nissan LEAF is the first car model that has passed over 30 000 deliveries in Norway since 2011. According to the head of the Nissan Elbildivition, there are about 400,000 all-electric cars in Europe, of which 110 000 are in Norway. By comparison, the Norwegian passenger car market corresponds to 1 pst. of the total market in Europe. In Norway, the electric car share is about 17 pst. of new passenger cars. In most other countries, the proportion is barely detectable. It's quick to forget how fast the switch from fossil cars to electric cars has gone. As late as 2009 there were only 3,000 electric cars in Norway, in 2015 50 000 were passed, and in November 2016 the electric car number rounded 100 000. The whole 4,000 are now in line to get the new Opel Ampera-e. This shows that the Norwegian electric car policy has worked. The benefits of electric cars, such as exemption from VAT and exemption from tolls, have been continued in the extended government budget agreement for 2017. The VAT zero rate for electric cars is continued until 2020 and emissions-free cars shall not pay more than half of the freight and ferry tariffs for ordinary cars and have the possibility of even lower tariffs being determined locally. In addition, there is a proposal for exemption from the annual tax on electric cars. We fully agree with the proposers that it is important to provide good charging infrastructure in order to make it even easier for people to choose an electric car. We have also noticed the discussions regarding the charge in housing law and joint stock, as it is necessary for most people to be able to load the electric cars at their private homes. We have noticed that in the reply letter of 21 April 2017, the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation points out a number of issues that should be investigated in terms of the right to establish loading points for those living in housing laws and communities. In particular, the way in which Community expenditure is to be settled against individual needs and wishes in collective forms such as joint ventures and housing laws must be clarified. This is why we are promoting proposals calling on the government to address various problems and barriers to the establishment of charging points for electric vehicles in housing and cohabitation – this to find solutions that will also be economically affordable for the individual without jeopardising the community. Yesterday, the Stortinget decided in the law on ownership sections that a section-owner, with the agreement of the board, may install charging points for electric cars and chargeable hybrids in connection with a parking space section, or elsewhere specified by the board. The Management Board may refuse its consent only if there is a substantive reason. It is assumed that it will not impose any common costs on others, as those who want the infrastructure themselves will have to pay for the installation. We fully support the proposal in II that the government should consider how to introduce requirements for new construction and construction subject to major conversions to be ready-to-charge. It is primarily the infrastructure that ensures that large enough cables are installed into the buildings in the case of new buildings and major renovations which, if not in place, incur the greatest costs afterwards. For us, it is important to have the necessary knowledge and to clarify complex issues before we conclude. No later than the 2017 state budget, Enova was granted an additional EUR 300 million. kr for, among others further developing charging infrastructure for electric cars. Enova has already supported the creation of high-speed chargers along the national transport corridors and is in the process of establishing a rights-based system for publicly available charging infrastructure for electric cars. In addition, Enova states that they will consider extending their investment in energy advice for the construction and housing sectors to energy and climate-efficient transport solutions. There has also been the development of a housing law counsellor from the Elbil Association, and we believe that this would be an advantage if the advice and service market were also driven by market demand. In order to achieve our goal of selling only new zero-emission vehicles from 2025, we are also totally dependent on technological developments, especially in the global automotive industry. We see the raging developments that are taking place now, and our job is to make sure that consumers make the right choices. It has facilitated the government and the cooperation parties by continuing and strengthening instruments that make it profitable to choose environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e986	The President shall assume that the representative shall include proposal No. 1?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e991	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e996	The representative Torhild Aarbergsbotten has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1001	I think there is a reasonable cross-political consensus that we should facilitate the conditions for those who have an electric car and those who are going to get an electric car in the future. You have to remove the barriers that create problems, but at the same time you have to do it in such a way that you raise new issues that result from perhaps not fully seeing the consequences of what you do. In this proposal for a representative there are several proposals to find good solutions, to use that expression. Electric cars are reasonably new, at least the great extent. As a result, new problems are also encountered. The effect is one of the issues you face, that is, a high effect over a short period of time. It happens at the same time – when a family comes home with their car, puts it on charge, starts cooking, showering and heating up. So you use a lot of power, you use a lot of power, and that's also a consequence. Many – not in this room – have been concerned with fire safety and the risk of charging a car. It's not big, but it's definitely there. Nor do you distinguish between loading a car out and loading a car into a public garage or basement area. I think that is a problem which, in its eagerness with this proposal, should have affected much more. At the same time, the problem of high-impact use should have been addressed when allowing high-impact use over a long period of time, several hours, but also over many years — the effect of this. You might want to think a little bit about what the industry is saying about that particular problem. Interestingly, the policy shifts from the cost of housing to housing construction to the cost of housing construction to reflect the use of fuel in the form of electricity for vehicles. So you don't know the full extent. It is possible that the majority in this room know exactly what the development of the car industry is like. I don't dare predict. I just know that it's a ripple development. One also investigates the possibility of changing the entire battery package at selected service stations. There is also a technology that many manufacturers of cars are investigating, so as to avoid this home charge. There should also have been more reflection in the setting. I'll comment on some of the suggestions. Many of the issues I have raised in my article really reflect what the Progress Party is behind in proposal No. One where you ask the government to investigate. I'll just briefly comment on some of the Roman numerals we don't support. First you, who say: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for the design of national regulations that ensure owners of housing laws and the right to set up loading points — unless there are factual reasons why such an establishment cannot take place.’ ‘Responsible reason’ – I expect the representatives to go up and explain the reasons for this. Or do you leave it to homeowners, joint owners and their lawyers to figure it out? So that's the reality. Further to II: ‘The government asks the government to consider how to introduce requirements for new constructions and constructions subject to major conversions to be ready-to-charge’. In other words, if you live on an island without a road connection, without a car and you have not planned to buy a car, you should have a charging point. It's interesting, but it's cost-intensive. Fortunately, the government is going to investigate this, so I guess the government is going to figure it out for each farm and service number in the whole country. It is a demanding job, but the government will certainly deliver on that point as well. I think that is a special point, and I am happy that the Progress Party is not in it. In the case of III, the government assumes that the new car sales from 2025 should be based on zero-emission technology, i.e. not a requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1031	The electric car policy in Norway has been very successful, and we are, as we all know, world leaders in the sale of electric cars. This is future. It is then important that the infrastructure is also included. This is not possible without sufficient capacity to charge. If you do not have the opportunity to leave home, this will be a big barrier to buying an electric car for many. This is an important issue for the continued conversion of the car park in Norway. It is therefore gratifying that there should be a majority in order to ask the government to make proposals for the design of national regulation which ensures owners of housing laws and combines the right to install loading points. This is absolutely necessary. Furthermore, it is also good that the government is given the task of assessing how requirements can be introduced for new constructions and constructions subject to major modifications to be ready-to-charge. This will probably remove a barrier to replacing a fossil fuel car with an electric car. If we are to be able to meet our climate commitments in the non-quota sector, the transport sector is crucial. Here it is both possible and necessary to cut significantly in the coming years. The electric revolution we've seen in recent years shows that it's possible. The government is now also required to return to the state budget for 2018 with concrete measures and instruments to base all new car sales from 2025 on zero-emission technology. This is forward-looking, and it is absolutely necessary for us to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1040	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1045	I just need a few brief comments from the Center Party to the setting available. The centre party can substantially accede to the reasons put forward by the rapporteur on this matter, and as part of the majority of us, we are also behind the proposals on charging points and, in the matter of repeating the proposal we have also adopted in the past, that all new car sales from 2025 should be based on zero-emission technology. The development in the sales of electric cars has gone very quickly, as the representative from the Right was also involved. Eight to nine years ago, there were very few electric cars, developments in recent years have been explosive as electric cars have improved, have increased their reach, and there are several models offered by manufacturers. So it's been a very positive development, also well supported by the authorities' encouragement in terms of, among other things. tax systems and other benefits. Once you get that far in the electric car sales, you kind of get the load anxiety. The barges are not only about reach, but also about the possibility to actually charge their car. Then we're into what several of the speakers here have called barriers to it, and there are some of them that we're removing today with the two proposals that get the majority. The centre party supports both of those proposals, we think it makes sense to propose and think that it can help make it even easier and easier to have an electric car. So we're on the proposal, which is a repetition of what we've said in the past in terms of new car sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1053	As many have pointed out in the past, Norway is leading an international organisation for electric cars, and we are the world leader in electric car sales. Now it's 15-17 pst. pure electric cars sold this year and among private buyers there are still more than 20 pst. We also have to achieve our objectives and climate objectives. So we want to have an agreement with the EU and reduce emissions by 40 pst. by 2030. Then we have to get there that about all new car sales have to be zero-emission cars in 2025. From the left side, I am very pleased that we now have such an agreed size around the goal, which we first negotiated on the civil side in connection with the energy message last spring, and that this has now become a general goal that everyone is reaching. And that works, the policy works. Together with the take-up of biofuels, the investment in electric cars, the emissions in the transport sector are now falling. The figures for 2016 show a decrease of 3.6 pst. in the transport sector. This shows that we now have to deal with the success we have after all. That's what these proposals also do to a large extent; they make us deal with a success. We have significantly increased the electric car turnover during this large-scale period, through the continuation of the VAT exemption until 2020, and we have also – in agreement on the civil side – said that any changes need to be seen in the context of the objective of reducing emissions by 2030. First of all, 2020 is the goal. We have set a similar target for fuel cell cars – i.e. those on hydrogen – with VAT exemptions for 2025 or for sold 50,000 cars. We have introduced what was there for a long time without getting in place, VAT exemption on leasing, and we have started the process of removing the annual tax on electric cars. We have also introduced, or delegated, the possibility to impose environmental requirements on the taxi industry, and we have made changes to the one-off tax that make even chargeable hybrids now have an explosive growth – yes, so much growth that we need to come up with new rules that require the minimum distance they run when they are only running on electricity. It's a great success story, and it's important that we now organize how we handle this. That's what I think these proposals do. It is a matter of proposing that owners of housing rights and joint societies be entitled to install loading points if there is no reason why they cannot do so. It is here in the preparation of the proposal that the government must also look at the framework and how such a proposal is to be implemented. Just as in the next, where we will introduce requirements for newly built and built that are subject to major upgrades, should be ready-to-charge construction. There, too, it is up to the government to set out the framework and framework for such a requirement. I think it's right that we also take the step further that we're making a plan for how we're going to achieve the goal of just a zero-emission vehicle in 2025. This is natural steps further, along with all the other decisions we've implemented. So I think it's a little bit strange that we don't get a majority for one of the proposals from the minority here, which is going to increase the requirement beyond 6 pst. with regard to the organisation of the charging point in the parking spaces. This is about making sure that the parking spaces we have also adapt to the reality that we know is coming, because this is going fast. For my part, I remember when we first negotiated in Oslo that we would set up 100 charging points in the year – back in 2008 – 400 charging points in four years. Then the professional feedback from the traffic department was that they thought it was not right, because there would be more charging points than electric cars in the city. We see today, less than ten years after, that we have 110 000 electric cars in the country. So when we look forward, we're going to have an infrastructure that will receive over 100,000 zero-emission vehicles every year. Then these proposals – the three for which we receive a majority – are a good basis for how we get this infrastructure, along with all the other things we do. What should also have been given to the majority is that we also had a demand for an increase in the car park.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1068	The size has set itself the goal of turning the electric car into the new public car, and after 2025 all new cars will be zero-emission cars. It's kind of a decision that's kind of swinging over. We're already the world leader in electric car use, and I always think it's important to remind our own people that the electricity car share in Finnmark is actually higher than the electricity car share in California – just to emphasize that the electric car fits even in the toughest conditions. The fact that we're so high on the electric car share, and the fact that we're going to roll out electric cars at a pace that few have seen the husband cut greenhouse gas emissions, it contributes to breakthroughs for new technologies, and it contributes to nutrient development in Norway and the rest of the world for just those who are betting on electric cars. There's going to be a disruption in the transport sector, where after 100 years of using the combustion engine as the most central means of delivery, we're going to switch over to using the electric motor instead. Such a break is about being involved and surfing if we are to be able to reap the development of nutrition in Norway as well. Our experience in the ferry sector shows that there is a trend in business to go ahead. Three out of four of the largest producers of maritime batteries are now in Trondheim, because they look at Norway and the place that is the most exciting place to be to further develop the maritime battery technology. There are several parties who have the credit that we are there today – I find it difficult to say that there are some who have sole responsibility. We have seen a patchwork of measures that have been put in place, which has made it possible to get us where we are today, but there is no doubt that a unanimous collapse now ends up continuing the electric car benefits by 2020, and I think it will also be necessary to ensure that there are further subsidies. So there are several parties that have the credit for us being there today, but it is at best unclear whether everyone wants to continue the electric car operation. The experience from Denmark is that cutting subsidies now has led to a fall of less than ten electric cars sold so far this year. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party has proposed in its alternative state budget and otherwise, including verbally, cuts in the most expensive electric car bets. Fortunately, the national meeting did not go for it. But doing such a tax cut on the type of cars that compete with SUVs and large cars, which represents 50 pst. new car purchases in Norway are dangerous if you want to roll out the cars. The progress party says that everyone agrees that we should have electric cars, but that is certainly not true. The progress party does not go in to make buildings chargeable. Fortunately, everyone else does. The progress party does not go in for people to be entitled to electric car charge in housing laws, but yesterday went in whole-heartedly for it in owner-sectional alliances. And then the representative, Korsberg, goes up here and polemizes what the question of the factual reason for refusing this means. Well, there's a well-established legal concept in the ownership law, that applies today, to which the municipal committee refers. They say the following very clearly: ‘The Committee will therefore propose a provision on charging infrastructure corresponding to the provision proposed for joint owners or disabled persons in Section 26, first paragraph. This will make it easier to acquire an electric car and will make it more difficult for companies to insist on the use of a fossil car. It will not impose any common costs on others either. [[...]] The whole point is that this is a well-established term. Now we get it into the owner's union. It was the Right Party and the Advance Party wholeheartedly on yesterday. Therefore, it is completely incomprehensible to me that the Right does not go in order for us to make sure that we do the same here and ask the Government to come back with the same type of legislation for example. Lawn and common parking spaces. But they'll have to explain it better at a later stage. In particular, the government parties oppose the proposal for an escalation plan. It is alarming, for SV first suggested that all cars after 2025 should be in place. Then there was something that the center parties were able to negotiate with the government, and then we got a unanimous decision on this very thing. But it is absolutely necessary to put such a plan, because otherwise the measures will not be put in place. In addition, SV is involved in a number of proposals for which we do not receive a majority, which deal with consultancy services and escalating the charging in the house. However, these are proposals that, although they fall now, would be quite natural to include in the evaluation when presenting a plan in the budget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1092	The President believes that the representative should make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1097	The President has a very good point, and I take up the proposals from the SV and the Greens in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1102	Then the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1107	Electric car policy is fun to talk about in Stortinget. It is an example of a mysterious coincidence of willingness to invest in Norwegian policy that has given very good results, although the reason for this may be a little unclear. Now we are in the even more pleasant situation that we are under pressure to accept the success we ourselves have created. That's why it's very good that we get a majority of three measures that will enable us to take on the ever-increasing share of electric cars that we're going to have, and that's a prerequisite for us to achieve the goal that we're also going to have here, namely, that by 2025 new cars are going to be based on pure zero-emission technology. It assumes that an increase that has so far been willing to use impressively large funds to subsidise the purchase of electric cars for private individuals is also willing to use much less — but still significant — means to ensure that it is possible to use electric cars for many more people at a rapid pace in the future. The measures taken by a majority are, first of all, that owners of housing rights are now entitled to set up loading points. It's very important, because it's a reality that many settlement teams have been anxious to understand the need for people who go ahead and want to establish a loading point to be allowed to do so. The type of rights is as natural as the requirement for electricity, water and construction conditions to be protected in housing laws. New, large constructions and conversions must also be required to be ready-to-load. Once again, it is to be seen as a matter of course – completely in line with other construction regulations. It's remarkable that someone doesn't want to follow up on this, but it's going to be implemented, and it's absolutely crucial that it does. So we get confirmation that the new car sales in 2025 will be based on zero-emission technology, and I think that is a decision that the Storting should repeat very frequently to commit itself, and send more time-consuming signals to all the industry players that this is what we mean -- it's going to happen. It's very ambitious – and fully feasible – but it requires constant political pressure from this room. The Green Party has promoted three additional proposals, which we are now dealing with alone. One is that the charging aid for electric cars should be extended to include public garages in general, i.e. workplaces and parking spaces. There are, in turn, measures that are ambitious and somewhat unfamiliar, but which ensure that what is the aim of the other Storting decision in this case, namely that it is well organised to allow people to use electric cars where they need electric cars. Then we have to stretch the knit a little bit. In addition, we propose that the aid from Enova for the development of electric carloads should be significantly increased, once again as a one-off investment, in order to put in place the receiver that we are totally dependent on getting, so that we do not get a brake on the electric car wave, which we have decided we want. Finally, we are promoting the proposal to establish a support system for electric cars. After all, the next step in the electric car wave must be for business to start using electric cars on a large scale. Cars are clear candidates as the next level of electric car waves, and we should strengthen the tools to do so. Business is clear, it's up to Stortinget if we want to take advantage of that clarity. Finally, I just want to point out a mistake in our proposal. The lower limit of the Enova aid scheme referred to in the proposal is listed in the text as 10000 kW. It shall be 100000 kW. So there's a zero left over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1126	The President interprets the representative to the point that he now addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1131	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1136	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1141	Electric and hybrid vehicle charging points are an important measure from an environmental point of view. I agree that it must also be prepared for charging at home. However, as some have mentioned in the debate, there are some issues that need to be addressed here, such as loads in housing law and in joint societies. I am pleased that both Decision I and Decision II in the vote take account of the fact that the government will have to come back to Stortinget with a proposal that will investigate this further. It is interesting to note that the challenges of electric car charging in housing law and housing alliances have largely addressed the internal decision-making processes of these housing laws and communities. It's clear that there are individual rights in a system that is very much collective and that has democratic decision-making processes through a board and annual meetings in both housing laws and communities. It presents some challenges that need to be considered in greater detail, not least in terms of cost sharing, and the boundaries between the right and any additional cost that this may also impose on the community in these collective forms of residence. With regard to the proposal for Decision I, there are some issues that need to be addressed, both on funding, as I have mentioned, and on fire safety and sufficient electricity capacity, which others have also been involved in. The same applies to proposals for Decision II. There are large individual differences in our long-term country as to how appropriate it is to introduce a general requirement across the country for so-called ready-to-charge construction, and then not only new constructions, but also major renovations in existing buildings. The distribution of electric vehicles is different in different parts of the country, and the need for charging stations varies, of course, with it from place to place. In addition, in the case of high-speed charging stations, it is also necessary to load a development which is fast while an electric car is increasing its battery capacity. All of these factors must be seen in full when the government is now going to investigate this further. We need to look here at the fire safety and capacity of the electricity grid for older buildings and, of course, the overall impact on the local mains network when this type of universal requirement for ready-to-charge construction is raised. So it's that costs are here an important element, as always. In addition to the fact that consumers who wish to charge points have to take a charge, there will be in many respects a discussion on whether part of the costs should be raised to the other residents in a housing law or a joint action. In the worst case, this type of general measure in ready-to-load construction will be linked to the costs that will be charged to the owner-of-house, to the housing price in general, in order to take these necessary investments. So, finally, for the proposal for Decision III, which runs on an electric car and a zero-emission vehicle in 2025. There is broad agreement on this objective, and it is elaborated in the national transport plan. At the same time, in order to achieve this goal, we are dependent on further developments in technology, that it becomes more mature in the various vehicle segments. It's going to happen. Developments are moving fast, and it is important that we do not now lock ourselves up too early in some actions, but that we ensure that the market is brought with us, which is in a state of development. The Government, together with the Cooperation Parties to the Left and Christian People's Party, already has a significant portfolio of instruments linked to this initiative, which makes a significant contribution to achieving the 2025 objective. The representative of Elvesuen explained this in detail in his statement. Of course, we are going to follow up proposals for Decision III in the vote, but I will already signal that the period until 2025 is seven years, and it will probably be early in the context of the state budget for 2018, to be able to have all the answers to what additional measures or adjustments to the measures needed to achieve the objective in 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1163	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1168	Every time I hear that the Progress Party speaks out about the electric car policy, I think I may have understood that. But then I hear a little bit more and realize that I have not understood what they are talking about, and I don't understand what they are talking about right now. Now I hear that the Council of State, at least, confirms that all new car sales from 2025 should be based on zero-emission technology, and for the Stortinget I think it is important that the Council of State actually confirms that – without any particular discussion. Can the Council confirm that the government is in favour of all new car sales from 2025 being based on zero-emission technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1173	Yes, the government and the undersigned have been clear on that objective. We have to make sure that in 2025 all passenger cars and light goods vehicles are zero-emission vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1178	That is when I believe there is a short cut in what the Council of State says, for seven years in advance is not a very long time. It is important that we remove barriers, as the Stortinget now does – against the votes of the Progress Party. It is also important that we get concrete proposals for action already in the 2018 state budget to achieve that goal – against the votes of the Progress Party in the Grand Chamber. But as I understand the Council of State's argument, he's for both I, II and III. Can that be true?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1183	What I said in my speech, and I can repeat that, is that we on the part of the government are going to follow up the majority proposals that come from the Stortinge on this matter, and we must then explore the details of how this is to be addressed, related to Roman number decisions I and II. There are challenges that need to be considered, as explained in my article. When it comes to further placing on a zero-emission vehicle, I would like to make it clear that, in addition to what has already been adopted, the instrument tool is working at an additional rate. We have had a very successful PILOT-E scheme in the maritime sector, where the various instrument actors have merged – both Enova, Innovation Norway and the Research Council – to set a rapid pace for new technology development. Similar new calls will now be made both on plant machinery and on commercial vehicles on land.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1190	Thank you for your answer. I understand that the Council of State had actually realized that the Storting together had voted for both I, II and III, and then it is clear that something had to be investigated, something clarified, and that is why we have also asked the government to do so. However, it is then understood correctly that it is urgent to take concrete action to achieve the objective and the requirement that all new car sales from 2025 should be based on zero-emission technology. In its submission, the Council of State referred a great deal to the fact that technology development was quite essential in order to do so, but the Council of State agrees that facilitating the use of new technologies, as the three Roma proposals for decisions here underline, is also important for technology development – for example: The electric car deployment in Norway has been important for the technological developments that have taken place — and these proposals will contribute to further technology development on the electric car side. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1197	The important thing is that we use market forces here, and that we get the best solutions in the end. There is now rapid technology development, both on traditional electric cars and we see it on fuel cell vehicles, eventually, linked to hydrogen. There will also be developments in the years ahead. Seven years is a short perspective in some contexts, but when we have an industry where technology development goes as fast as it does in this area, seven years is actually quite a long time. There are two major periods, and from the government's side, we're going to make it possible to build up the barriers that are there, which help prevent a trend towards a new car sale in 2025 that is based on a zero-emission vehicle. However, we need to look at developments in order to initiate the right measures at all times, and it is not certain that all this will be clear when the state budget is presented for 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1204	I did not fully understand the dissatisfaction of the representative of Aasland. After all, it is all with a civil majority we have extended the VAT exemption for electric cars, it is with a civil majority we have got tax exemption on leasing, it is with a civil majority we have removed the annual tax on electric cars, and it is with a civil majority we have also got a hydrogen tax, with both a target for 2025 and a tax exemption. There's no doubt that it's during this magnification period we've got an enhanced electric car bet. The only party that has questioned exactly those tax exemptions is the Workers' Party. But my question should go to the Council of State: Yes, by 2025 – but what you can do right now is look at the analysis of the impact of what we have already achieved and what additional measures may need to be taken. Then you also have to look at the infrastructure that you have to have in place by 2025. Then my question is: will the Council also make sure that Enova does his investigations to see what infrastructure you need to have in place to take the number of cars this is about?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1211	The answer to this could have been yes, because the new agreement with Enova is very clear that they should focus their efforts on what contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and innovation. And what happens on the transport side of this industry is very much innovation. It is still possible to take new steps towards more efficient technology in both battery and fuel cell technology. We're going to have a dialogue with Enova continuously linked to the effort being made to reduce emissions in the transport sector. It is important that we have a division of labour – as we also discussed in the previous case – where the government, based on the majority of the Stortinget, sets the framework and objectives for Enova's activities, and that Enova has room for action to operate and choose the measures that can have the greatest impact at the lowest possible cost. It serves the environment, it serves the consumer, and it serves our total investment in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1218	In my speech, I forgot to say hello to the representative Abid Q. Raja, who is also co-sponsored in this proposal, so it is done. I have discovered an inner flaw in the logic of the Council of State, the Party of Advances and the Right in this matter, and it is the following: Yesterday, a total collapse felt whole-hearted – the party of progress and the Right was involved – that it was right to change the law and demand that owners of an apartment of ownership should have the right to install electric chargers for their car. What is the logic that the party of progress and the parties of government is for it to be allowed to do so in common, but is opposed to returning to the Stortinget with the proposal for a corresponding amendment of the law on housing laws and joint societies, such as parking lots and such?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1225	What I have underlined is that there are some challenges here, because you go into a collective-based system, with units and housing laws, where you have decision-making processes based on democratic decisions, and give an individual right to individuals who, in the ultimate sense, can bring great costs to the rest of the population. This discussion of what may be the cause of the matter becomes essential in the further work. With regard to the parallel to universal design, which has been drawn out, there is a slightly different track, from my point of view, because there are significant support mechanisms to enable the consumer in need of universal design to take the cost of adapting his own home or community to that right. When it comes to charging an electric car, it might be something different. There are some public support schemes through Enova, but the cost will be very high if basic infrastructure investment is also made towards the community itself or the law of residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1233	What the Council of State says is still not logical, because in the context of the adoption of this in the Ownership Act, where it says that the installation of electric car chargers should be allowed in common, it is very clear in the comments in the setting: ‘It will not impose any common costs on others either, as those who wish to install the infrastructure themselves will have to pay for it.’ In other words, we have exactly the same problem for housing, and that's where the Progress Party says no. They believe that it is wrong to have the right to charge their electric car, but you live in a joint, they think it is right that you should have the right to charge your car. That's why I'm saying, it's not a big deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1243	It is important to stress, as far as the proposal to which it was now referred is concerned: yes, if the consumer himself is going to take all the costs. But then there will be too many settlements and alliances in reality a paper decision by the Storting, because the cost, if you have to go into and strengthen the main supply of the power plant into a housing block, a joint or a joint garage, becomes so great that it will be very unlikely for the individual consumer to find the economy in establishing this. The right may be granted, but it is important to have measures that actually work and that do not just become a right that has such a high cost that it is not feasible for the individual operator. This has to be considered in more detail. One proposal for a Roman number decision focuses on ready-to-charge construction, and there is a high cost of refurbishment of existing construction, which will ultimately be borne by the individual consumer to purchase an apartment or dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1250	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1257	This case shows very clear political dividing lines and actually shows which parties are for, and which are against. Sometimes the impression, and one hears, is that the Progress Party completely ends up in electric car policy and that there will be zero-emission technology from 2025. There is every reason to question the kind of statements in this room. On Friday, we will deal with the Climate Act. There we write in the setting - it's released, so it's not dangerous to refer to it: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, will point to the broad consensus on the objective of new passenger cars and light goods vehicles in 2025 being a zero-emission vehicle.’ So there's no progress party. Neither do they participate in any of the Roman number decisions for which there is a majority in the Chamber today. So it's a party that's completely different in terms of electric car policy than the vast majority. That the Elvesu celebrates the party of Advancement – I am surprised that the Vice President of the Left can actually do so. It is against the voice of the Advance Party that one has accomplished things in Stortinget. One can well remember how things happened last year in connection with the energy message, and how we set up a goal on a zero-emission vehicle from 2025, where one went out with the crash and broke the one day, and where one day after that one could row to explain what one had been on, to satisfy the Progress Party. It was the reality around it, based also on proposals promoted by the Workers' Party against the Energy Communication. But I'm going to leave it now, because I think it's worrying that the Progress Party does not do as the Council of State says, and vote for you, which gives those who live in settlements and communities the right to set up loading points. There's nothing about costs in it, but it's a right that they don't have today, that we want to get in place and get in place. If you don't have that right, at least it's hard to get it done. What is the factual reason why such an establishment cannot take place, it is to be answered in the further processing, but if there is a risk that the house or the housing layer burns down as a result of the establishment of a loading point, it is a good reason to say no – if the garage system is not fireproof enough. Making things very difficult is going to be stupid in this case if you actually want to implement and remove barriers – as the majority will. It's the same thing when it comes to making facilities for ready-to-charge construction. The country is different, says the Council of State. Yes, the country is different, but the sale of cars with zero-emission technology from 2025 applies to the whole country. This Decision does not apply only to certain places where the building structure is appropriate. There is every reason to ask why the Progress Party is not involved in these proposals. To me, all the evidence is that they deliberately choose to stand outside because they don't... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1275	I understand where the plug is, when it is such that the Council of State believes that it would be a paper decision to decide to give the right to an electric car charge to people living in housing camps, on the same line as the Stortinge unanimously adopted yesterday, that is, to do it in common. I have still not received a good explanation as to why the Progress Party and the Right believe that it is quite okay to give people the right to install electric car charging in the joint, but quite wrong to give people the right to install electric car charging in the housing layer. Reference to a look up in Budstikka from 12 February 2016. Then the board of Fossum Boligsameie refused to charge electric car owners in the public garage. They were due to fire technology, but there is no fire technology that means that it is more dangerous to let an electric car than to have a petrol car standing. There is also no public government agency – fire and explosion protection, i.e. the directorates dealing with these things – that warns against loading in garages. It will also not be permitted to install illegal charging facilities in garages – that is, of course, quite right. The point is that when several electric car owners in the same housing law join forces and say that they would like to undertake to bear the cost of installing an electric car charge, and that otherwise it is not possible for them to have an electric car, they should be allowed to do so. As regards the issue of the cause of the case, which has been raised, I referred to what is already stated in the Ownership Act and the Housing Act, where this is established very clearly. You have the right to, for example: to install a chair hoist or a stairlift for disabled persons who need it. The cost is borne by the individual himself or by the community. You only have reason to say no. That doesn't prevent this, you get it done. It's extremely important for all of us who live in town, and who can't afford to live alone in the city, that you have the opportunity to charge for housing and cohabitation. So what's most special about this case is that yesterday the Progress Party and the Right were whole-hearted so that owners in the same company would be allowed to charge in their homes, but in the case of owners in housing laws, they think it is wrong that you should have the opportunity to charge. There's a problem and a lot about and though, but yesterday there was nothing about and but, and not problematic to go into it in common. I hope that the Council of State will do as he said, and follow this up whole-heartedly, it will be the municipal minister who will have to take care of the law on housing laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1288	It's very clear that the long election campaign is going well, when you hear the speeches of the representative Terje Aasland. There is no reason to try to create any disagreement about the electric car bet or the bet on a zero-emission vehicle up to 2025. This hall has been clear. The government has been clear in the submission of NTP, followed up and set a target that we should only have zero-emission cars in the new car sales in 2025. It is up to the government to do so, and we will work to that end through the measures that are in place and the measures that will be put in place along the way, in order to follow up the technological developments taking place in the area over the seven years up to 2025. With regard to giving an individual right, it is quite intrusive on the part of Stortinget to a collective form of housing with housing laws and the same thing to say that it is to be given. We're taking the proposals that lie here, and we're going to follow them up from the government. But it is interesting to note that a party such as SV is so clear that individual rights will be granted in a system based on a collective solution with democratic decision-making processes through the board and the annual meeting of each type of housing law and society to decide on joint investment. Substantial reason – yes, it will be an important topic to discuss further. Fire safety is essential. There's uncertainty out there. There are residents who are also uncertain about having a charge and whether a system established in an old building or an old communal garage will withstand the overall load – both ‘peak’ over a period and over time – and of course you have to have thorough investigations into this in each type of housing and community, to ensure that it is safe for all residents. This is not a matter where there is reason to make things difficult, but what I have pointed out in the treatment is that there are some challenges. In fact, there is a need to sit down and make some assessments and frameworks I and II, so that this is done in a proper manner and in practice can lead to more people leaving home – and at an acceptable price both for the individual consumer and, where appropriate, with regard to the additional costs that have to be borne by the community in relation to the joint or housing law, and the common cost of housing operators may need to take into account in the construction of new buildings to be made ready for loading, or in the upgrading of old buildings to be made ready for loading under II.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1299	I am pleased with the majority we now have in this matter. I don't think it's a problem that we give a right to build a loading point in housing law and joint stock. I think you'll be able to find those envelopes quite right, but there are some people who have to work on it – just like you have to find an envelope for building new buildings and rebuilding and upgrading constructions. On the left, we are pleased that we are able to bring together a majority on this kind of decision, but going from there, as the Labour Party does, to the great ideological distinction, I disagree with. One thing there is no doubt about is that it is through budgetary decisions and with the bourgeois majority we have, there has been a strengthening of climate policy, especially in the transport sector during this period. I have referred to decisions that have been taken there in the past. It is a fact that the only person who has asked questions about this, and has not clearly shown that one has the will to keep the electric car benefits long enough for it to give a full conversion to just zero emissions in 2025, is the Workers' Party, which has been out of the way to get the support you have for the most expensive cars. But right now it's about having patience with the goal we have of just zero emission sales in 2025. Then you have to have patience and willingness to keep the benefits long enough and not ask them questions. I think these decisions must be seen in conjunction with a much larger whole where we are leading internationally. We've set ambitious targets for 2025. They were very attentive when we adopted them, but now there is a broad consensus that we are going to reach them, and that it is quite possible to reach them. Now it's really just about getting the plan, the calculations and the investigations we need to both achieve the goal and get the infrastructure that's needed to receive as many electric cars as early as 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1310	Let me just say that I understand Terje Aasland's frustration and anger here in the pulpit. For it must be a pity for the representative of Aasland to see the policy that the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party has developed on climate, on transport, on car policy. The working party was put together with SV for eight years and got nothing done. So it's clear that it hurts well, and then – without political content – you have to use a loud and powerful voice from this pulpit to camouflage your own frustration. I'll record that. Many have been involved in this with a fire hazard and an electric car, whether it is flammable or not. No, in fact it's not, but it's the same thing as buying a washing machine and getting a little reminder that you really shouldn't use it at night. To wash clothes, do it in the daytime when you are at home and present in the house, simply because there is a small fire risk. The same applies to other electrical appliances, if you read the instructions for use, as well as to electric cars. When Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås compares and says that it is as harmless to have an electric car in the garage as a petrol car, it is actually wrong, because when you have an electric car in the garage, there is activity in the car, and that is what is critical. I have raised this for a factual reason, and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås is hiding behind that it is a legal concept. Yeah, that's a legal term, but in this room we can actually define what's in the term, because we're the legislator. Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås also pointed out that this was used in the owner's section law. Nothing in the Roman Numeral Decision refers to that law, so it falls on its own unreasonableness. However, the most fun point in these decisions is how to consider introducing requirements for new buildings and buildings undergoing major conversion to be ready-to-load construction. In other words, you live on an island without a car and without a road, you should be able to charge an electric car in it built. It's demanding! Whoever builds that house may not find it the most interesting, but, as I said earlier, fortunately, the government will assess it. But it is a demanding law to deal with. No one in these proposals has reflected on what the costs of this will be, but we will probably have a debate on the costs of housing for young people. Then I will remember this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1321	Let me start by saying that I am not worried in any way about the proposals that have been adopted in Stortinget over these four years. All the proposals that bring about improvements in the climate have been rejected by the Workers' Party, and I believe that we have been involved in motivating the implementation of a number of those proposals, too, against the actual will of the Progress Party. That's the one part. The second part is that I'm not angry at all. If I had been angry, I would have looked completely different and behaved quite differently, I can assure you that. I want to give – what should I say – a tribute to Korsberg for addressing the big, significant problem that if you have a house on an island, you may not need this if there is no road connection etc. – most islands may start getting it too. If there is no road connection and it is not relevant with a car, then you will probably get a derogation from – let's say – installing a charging point for an electric car in such a type of construction. I assume that it is not very demanding to make such an exception. What is absolutely essential is that we don't do any major reconstructions of construction, or new buildings, which make it complicated to prepare later for charging, but it won't be on the Right and the Advance Party will be on. Understand the one who can. When it comes to the right to build a loading point for housing units and co-operatives located there, I also do not understand why one is not on that proposal, because there is a significant barrier, and there are no rights for the individual in such a type of housing law if you do not get it now. It is not to overrun anyone to grant such a right, as long as it is not a question of imposing costs on the Community. There's no overstepping here, there's a right you get. We want to give people that right so they can buy an electric car and install that charging point. We think that's right. Right and the Progress Party thinks it's a very big intervention. Understand the one who can. With regard to confirming this by 2025, all new car sales have to be based on zero-emission technology, and that we are already starting to work on concrete measures to get it done, it scares me that the government parties are not involved. Because it shows a lack of willingness to start just this work early. There has not been a revolution in electric car policy in these four years. On the contrary, the main foundation was established before this landfill period. The Labour Party has not voted against any of the arrangements to which reference is made from this pulpit in the case of electric cars. We have put a question mark on whether it is correct to continue to subsidize, or have no roof, in terms of the price of the car. We have not promoted it as a proposal, but we have asked questions as to whether that is correct. I think it's a very timely question in a situation where you also have that arrangement for cars for well over one million kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1336	I think it may be a little expensive that it is precisely the Right Party and the Advance Party that stand here today and defend the community – that we take more care of the community than of the individual rights. We are in no way opposed to having an opportunity to build charging points, both in housing laws, joint societies and other collective solutions. However, as the Minister has been here several times, including in the reply to the Committee on this matter, there are some important issues that need to be addressed, not least in view of whether we are going to have this as a paper decision, or whether we are actually going to have our policy put into practice by making it possible for the individual to fit in the possibilities of charging electric cars – that one not only has a theoretical opportunity, but that this should also be able to go into practice. Nor is it true, what the representative of Aasland was talking about, that we were rooted in the energy message. It was manufactured as if it were a prohibition on selling cars other than zero-emission cars from 2025. Everyone understands that you can't ban it. But we want to be able to facilitate that in fact, and we are totally dependent on the technological development of the car manufacturers. Norway has the best electric car policy in the world, and this shows that it has gone from selling 3,000 electric cars in 2009 to over 100 000 in 2016. This is how we see that we have come a long way, and with the continuation and strengthening of the same policy, we believe that we have absolutely made it possible for us to achieve the objectives adopted both in the context of the communication of energy, and not least through the budgets that we have had with the Christian People's Party and the Left. That's why we believe in taking the course that's gone through different decisions. That's what it takes for us to put politics into practice, and not just do some theoretical exercises that don't actually bring us in the direction we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1347	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1353	The size has set itself a target that all cars sold after 2025 should be zero-emission cars, and it is only charging policy and charging policy that is crucial for our success. We intend to achieve that. Someone trusts more that others fix this, we don't. I am pleased that the SV and the Left in this case have managed to get the majority with them one step closer to turning the electric car into the new people's car. So that's the representative of Korsberg, and my hope is, dear Progress Party and Right: can't you, inside their parties, talk a little bit more together? Yesterday, there were representatives here and they said it was absolutely right to make sure that this was part of the ownership law, and now there are representatives from the same parties here and say no, this is so problematic, and there is an attack on the community. To Korsberg: So it's like I referred to another paragraph of the Ownership Act. This means that legal practices are well established.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1360	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1376	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1385	I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee and at the same time stating that Norway has to invest in travel. The left will contribute to a good framework for an industry with significant growth potential. The left will contribute to higher value creation and profitability and to sustainable development. The organisation of local food and drink production is important for travel and more and more visitors want to eat and drink locally produced goods. Agriculture is a resource for travel and travel is a resource for agriculture. Travel life is affected by, inter alia: transport, finance, the environment, agriculture, the coast and fisheries. For the Left, it is important that these policies are seen in a coherent way, for the benefit of travel. I think there needs to be closer links between cultural life, food producers and travel, in the development of competences, marketing and cooperation on destinations. To achieve my goals, I believe Innovation Norway's work on profiling Norwegian travel lives, among others. in the case of non-residents, must be strengthened. Travel life must be sustainable. This can be done by following the principles of the Green Competitiveness Report. Nature and culture are at the heart of Norwegian travel. Through the World Heritage Convention, Norway has taken on an international commitment in the fields of world heritage. World heritage sites must be able to manage, rehabilitate and maintain their assets so that their values are not degraded. It is important that the World Heritage Centres are able to drive knowledge development and dissemination at an internationally high level. There is also a need to work to ensure that several destinations in Norway, including Svalbard, achieve world heritage status. I want a strategy for the development of travel, agriculture and product development in world heritage areas. This concerns the Vega Islands on the Helgeland coast and western fjords. I'm talking about the Geirangerfjord area and the Nærøyfjord area. It's important. Cultural experiences need to be given a more central place as a resource for travel. The left considers it important that equipment and buildings are available throughout the country that can be used for cultural events. It is necessary to provide for fires, volunteers and other actors necessary for the organisation of cultural and sporting events. A national organisation strategy may be positive in order to develop this part of the tourism industry. I am pleased that the Left in the 2017 state budget put in place a system of national routes, but I expect this to be just the beginning. The order is at 7.5 million. kr and should be extended. Such organisation is also important for connecting the simple open-air life, represented by e.g. The Norwegian Tourist Association, and the other travel industry. Reduced tax pressures on the tourism industry are of great importance and reduced tax rates must be designed to be effective for business and management. Public forms and supervision of the tourism industry should be made as effective as possible. There might be room for improvement here. There's got to be more speed in broadband development across the country where people move and live. Research-based knowledge must underpin the development of travel life. At the same time, the experience-based and action-based knowledge gained by small businesses, including larger ones, must also be taken into account when designing travel policy. There is also a need for more knowledge in relation to the relationship between pristine nature, energy development, agriculture and nature as valuables.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1406	The tourism industry is an important district industry, with a high potential for creating values and jobs across the country. It's an important growth industry for Norway and an industry The Labour Party has been investing in for many years in government, and we're still investing in opposition. For several years now it has grown well in the number of tourists, in translation and in the number of jobs. Growth is a result of the hard work of the industry and communities across the country and a low price, but also of political commitment over many years. At a time when there is almost no job creation in the private sector, it is a pleasure to see that travel is going well. But this growth has failed – rather than due to – the policy of the Right-front party government. Where the government of Stoltenberg II actively invested in tourism as a growing industry, the Right Party and the Progress Party have come with a cut in funds for marketing and unreserved changes in the framework conditions, such as a sudden introduction of VAT on overnight stays and an airline fee. The travel news has been delayed over time, and when it is finally in place, the new cut in the wealth tax comes ahead of powerful, targeted interventions to contribute to more annual work places throughout the country. We need more jobs, but we also need safe jobs. Travel life is a seasonal activity, but the aim must be to ensure as many secure all-year jobs as possible. It is gratifying, therefore, that the Committee agrees with us that the government has not delivered well enough on this, and that a joint committee asks the government to develop a strategy for extending the season. Not enough; it must also be such that the marketing will support under this objective. I would encourage everyone to support the proposal of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party that all-year work places must also be part of the objectives of the joint marketing work, because we see that the marketing as the government Stoltenberg stepped up, worked. Global competition is strong and marketing should contribute to the expansion of the season. To keep busy, as the government party does, only shows a lack of ambition for this important industry. A good supply of travel life depends on our taking a stand – the private and the public, the local and the national. Cooperation is the key to providing a good travel product. One example is marketing; another is network access. Good network access is essential for tourists to share their experiences and for businesses to operate efficiently and reach out to their customers. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that the public must take greater responsibility, precisely to ensure good online access throughout the country. The level of ambition must rise. Increased tourist currents also pose challenges. We believe that the government is not responding well enough to the challenges such as: the chairman of Flakstad, in Lofoten, took up his hearing. Berekraft must be the leading source of tourist growth. Even if we do not want a mandatory co-funding, the Labour Party's policies will give local communities much better opportunities to meet these challenges. Strong transfers to the municipalities and municipalities and a commitment to regional development funds would give room for action and muscles to invest where necessary. The voluntary response organisations would also be supported by the Labour Party’s policies. In the tourism policy too, we see the difference between an active and a passive policy. How far does public responsibility go, and what should be left to the market? The Labour Party represents an active industrial policy in which the public is targeting and helping to trigger the growth of key industries we are investing in. When the government asks it to come back with action when it comes to two major challenges for travel life, digitisation and all-year work, it becomes difficult to say that the government has made a hit in the travel news.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1423	Would Hegø like to comment on the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1428	I do, thank you. I would like to take up the proposal we have with the Central Party and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1433	The representative Ingrid Heggø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1438	Travel industry is growing throughout the country, so the starting point for future developments has never been greater. I am pleased that the tourism industry is high on the political agenda, and that we have finally received a travel life report – the first in 17 years. It shows that travel life is of great importance to today's government parties, and it is also a major cross-political commitment to help the industry develop further in the years to come. And then it's important that the travel industry has good framework conditions, and the industry itself must also help keep the good quality of experiences and services in the driver's seat ahead. We must jointly ensure that all our actors act professionally and seriously, so that Norway, as a destination, will continue to experience uniquely, attractively and adventurously in the future. An important step now being taken is to reduce the tax burden on Norwegian-owned hotels and accommodation sites. This, together with the removal of inheritance taxes and other tax reductions for industry, will contribute to positive results where there is today marginal earnings. It will be one of several incentives for further investment across the country. Other concrete steps taken are the creation of a separate strategy for culture and travel, with a focus on cultural tourism. Norway has a wide range of cultural heritage and experiences, so getting it together with travel will make our potential as a travel destination even better exploited. The travel industry has also over the years pointed out that the scope of supervision and controls has been given an almost unmanageable amount — both in terms of number and time use. This burden on industry has grown over time, but it is now under way to get an overview of this extent, so as to reduce both monitoring and controls and to have them carried out in a way that reduces time use. Nutritional research and innovation have been a priority for this period, as well as a huge commitment to transport and infrastructure. Getting tourists safely across the country is crucial for the further development of travel life. At the same time, we must remember that Norway is a long-distance country, and among other things. from Finnmark points out that there are few direct flights from the Gardermoen winter time, a major obstacle to exploiting the large travel life potential that exists there. Infrastructure such as broadband is also necessary for the whole country to be put into service — based on the demands of both businesses and customers in today’s society. Facilitating digitisation and simplification means that business actually has access to these services. Efforts at local food have also been important for the Right, and a specific strategy for tourism has recently been put forward based on the resources of agriculture and reindeer farming. Simplifications for local producers have also contributed to linking travel life closer to the unique experiences. It ensures that our traditions and local production of food and drink can be experienced by both foreign and Norwegian tourists. It provides a link between industries that makes players better equipped to create jobs all year round. And all year round jobs are an important goal. You are now in the process of succeeding, among other things. in the north, where we see that winter tourism has taken off completely in recent years – a part of the country that a few years ago had midnightssola as its main attraction. Now the northern lights contribute along with whale safari, king crabs, scooter safari, dog driving, Sami experiences, etc. to ensure that all year-round travel businesses are properly foot-holding. We need to ensure that the natural experiences in Norway are equally good in the years to come. Therefore, I am pleased that the government has launched the project ‘National Tours’ for the most popular destinations, so that we can ensure sustainable use. Finding solutions to address the safety of travel destinations will also be important in the further work. So far, voluntary organisations have had a lot of stress in some places, and we need to engage in a dialogue with them to find out how to deal with this in the future. With that, I am sure that we will be able to experience Norway in the future – both unique and adventurous.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1463	In recent years, the Norwegian economy has been through tough and unstable times. The falling oil price has affected both the base and parts of mainland Norway that have been particularly oil and gas exposed. At such times, however, it is extra joyful when individual industries and industries stand up and weigh up for the negative impulses. Travel life is such an industry. After strong growth in 2015, 2016 also became a record year for Norwegian travel lives. It's very joyful. One thing is that you can look out of statistics and calculate it back in time. Well, it's so important to look at what you can get out of the future. The growth potential of this industry is fantastic. An ever-increasing and rapidly growing middle class in the world, especially in Asia, makes the international travel and tourism market look better than ever. This combined with increased domestic holidaying among the Nordics gives good faith in the future. But there are also some cuts in the sea, as it often is. Nearly 160,000 people work in the travel industry, about 9 pst. of the employed in Norway. However, these stand for just about 4 pst. by the value creation. It makes the value creation per employed relatively low, and it's a concern it's worth reflecting a little over. I am pleased that an overall committee aims to increase the value and profitability of the tourism industry. If you want to compete with other industries and industries in a more normal economic situation, you have to. Today, it is too vulnerable to single events and individual phenomena, such as: the exchange rate. I'm not sure if you'd been there today, without a significant weakening of the crown in the last few years. At least you should get some rest to make it stronger in the next few years. The Committee notes in its recommendation that ‘travel life activities also need to be more sustainable for employees in the industry’ and points out, inter alia, that ‘travel life activities also need to be more sustainable for employees in the industry’. that seasonal work may be burdensome for employees. That's probably true, but in many places in our country it's the only real solution, and then it's often better than the alternative. Everyone agrees that, as far as possible, all-year jobs should also be sought in travel, but believing that all-year jobs should be made out of all employment in this industry is a utopian one. I need to put it simply because if you read and interpret the text in the settings in the wrong way, it might seem like you're looking at this as some sort of secondary employee. That's not true. Where it is natural, and where possible, travel life itself must strive to create all-year jobs. There's nothing we can decide on the Storting, no matter how much we want it in this room. Of the very concrete links with this industry presented in the Communication as a new policy, it is worth mentioning in particular two measures. Over time, there have been ‘national tourist roads’. The ‘National Tours’ are now established according to the model of the tourist roads. The aim is to make paths attractive for visits and businesses by making their use more sustainable and accessible. There is no doubt that some of the very most popular tourist destinations experience a violent pressure, especially on and in nature, around these destinations. Hopefully, the new routes can fix this a little bit. The second thing I want to mention is the government's warning of a valuation discount in the property tax at Norwegian-owned hotels and overnight stays in the state budget for 2018. I think that will be a loving contribution to the growth and development of travel throughout the country. However, the most important thing we can do for the tourism industry is to keep a steady course in the areas of government and the bulk of population have prioritised in the last four years: continue tax relief for broad groups and businesses – clearly it means something to travel life when corporate taxation goes down, and when inheritance tax is removed continue record travel appropriations – clearly it means travel life when several trains arrive in time, and when you don't worry about punctuating each turn on the roads Continue the level of skills we are in the process of – clearly it means something to business if more people are able to complete advanced education in e.g. Travel life and the nature of school
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1494	Norway is a beautiful country of nature that differs from most others. Here tourists can come to see both mountains and fjords, midnight sun and northern lights, Viking ships and fortified cities. This makes us an attractive travel destination, and we see that more and more people get their eyes up for us. Therefore, it is important that we have such a large and skilled tourism industry as we have – an industry with large and small players that facilitates, develops concepts, contributes to value creation, creates jobs and represents Norway in a good way, and an industry that extends across the country, which is particularly important for our districts, how many of the most beautiful destinations are. At the same time, we know that the potential is great, and that tourism is one of the fastest growing industries in the world. People get more money and will spend them travelling. Norway needs to take part in this growth, and then we need to facilitate our travel industry and provide the good framework conditions. It was on the basis of this Christian People's Party in 2014 that we took the initiative to need a travel life message, and got the support of Stortingen on this. Now the Business Committee has examined it, and I am pleased that the Committee clearly shows that we want to invest in Norwegian travel and to facilitate increased value creation and more jobs through this important industry. We want growth in travel life, and we want more visitors. At the same time, we know that today is almost full of many of our most popular destinations in the high season. Travel life itself is concerned that we need to expand the seasons and develop new travel goals and experiences. This includes, among other things: Nord-Norway managed by going from midnight solar tourism to now also in winter to have an increasing number of visitors, who will see the northern lights. We have to get more of this, and this is what the Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for a separate strategy, for which the government will develop in cooperation with the industry. I am pleased that a joint committee has agreed to this. Important arrangements for spreading visitors across all the beautiful destinations here to countries are national routes and national tourist roads. The schemes ensure that we are accommodated in some of the most important destinations, and ensure the dissemination of knowledge that there are more beautiful places to visit in Norway. The Christian People's Party has been a champion for them for a long time, and I am pleased that the Committee today decides that the system of national tours should be strengthened. National tourist roads pay particular attention to cultural memories. It is important that cultural memories are preserved, and that we thus also preserve important parts of our cultural heritage. That is why it is an important decision of the majority in the Committee today when we ask the government to present a plan for the maintenance of cultural memories. It's important to keep memories from the past. At the same time, we need to look ahead and ensure that our travel industry participates in the technological developments ahead of us. Norway is good at digitisation, but we also know that especially small players may have challenges to participate in it, and it is therefore good that the majority today ask the government to ensure that the full range of Norwegian tourism industry is allowed to participate in the increased digital competence. I look forward to seeing our travel industry continue to grow, and to being able to use the whole country throughout the year – both by focusing on what we have of natural resources, and by taking active ownership of the technological development and opportunities in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1509	The center party is a party that believes in all of Norway, who wants to make use of the whole country. Travel life is an important industry throughout Norway. But we want a stronger commitment to red tape and digitisation. If one is to be closed with it, we also need an expansion of both broadband and mobile coverage across the country. The centre party wants to have stronger and clearer destinations, we want to increase marketing abroad, we want to facilitate more all-year jobs, and we want a significant investment in nature-based travel. For the Centre Party, it is important to work for both increased value creation, increased profitability and increased employment in the tourism industry. The industry stands for 4 pst. of the value added in Norwegian business and 9 pst. of the employment. It can both problematize and see possibilities in it. Of course, it's positive if wages go up. At the same time, we see a trend where more and more jobs disappear. Travel nutrition is an industry that has the potential to employ a significant number of people in the future. Then we need a mix of the big flagships within travel life combined with the many small businesses. The centre party believes it is particularly important to focus on empowerment in smaller businesses, so that they can work together to provide a whole set of good travel life in Norway. Then the public must also play an active role. When you're going to bet on nature-based travel, it's unthinkable that the local has to take such a heavy responsibility for preparedness. The Central Party wants the State to take a clearer responsibility and participate in the financing of local tourism. People don't come to Norway just to experience, we also have a great possibility when it comes to the meeting, conference and congress markets, as well as what is associated with different events. There must be a strategy here. Not only must he be directed towards the cities, he must have Norway as a whole. Behavior is referred to as an important action, both in the message and in the settings. I would like to point out that tourists arriving in Norway with flights often spend a lot of money here. Then we want to make sure that the simplified transfer system is applied to all airports in Norway, and that the scheme is made permanent. We are also critical of the government's lack of investment in the provision of air routes in the districts and the introduction of the fare. National tourist roads are a major investment in tourism. I'm very glad that the committee is now opening up to adjust the scheme, that we can change the sections that are in the scheme. We have a challenge to the Minister of Transport in the past. He has refused to meet us at that. The Committee has now informed that it can do so. I mean, among other things. that an extension of the National Tourism Road Jären will be positive, I think it will be positive to join the National Tourism Road Jären and the National Tourism Road Ryfylke, and I think we need to look at whether we should establish the National Tourism Road Mjösa – as some example. People come to Norway to see a living Norway, and travel policy is also linked to agricultural policy, fisheries policy and rural policy. There are three sides of the policy that are not exactly the government's strong side, so there is a need for a clearer focus on these too in a travel life perspective. The central party supports increasing the depreciation discount in the property tax, and we are some with the government in opposing local tax law. The message is rich in fine words, but it is somewhat poor in action. It has been better since treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1533	The global tourism industry is growing rapidly, and we also notice that in Norway. With over 10 pst. In recent years, Norway is among the countries of Europe with the highest growth rates, and there are many factors determining these developments. Of course, weak Norwegian kroner, and therefore the price level in Norway, have a lot to say, but also other factors play in. Norway is a safe and open country where it is possible to travel freely in nature without fear of any fees, wolves or hideous events. But the most important thing, which is my strong impression, is that the world is about to see Norway as a destination in itself. I think from my own upbringing in Tromsø, when I was about seven years and on the way home from a friend through the forest in deep snow. It was sad and starry. Suddenly I heard some voices in the woods. It was not quite easy to know what it was, and as I began to approach, I was curious, I only heard more and more voices. And there I came across a small edge and saw, on such a small opening in the woods, that there were 50 Japanese in the dark on mattresses they had laid out in the woods. They looked up in heaven and "ho-cha nyo-cha hya" [[similar to Japanese]] I think it made an indelible impression on me, which I then prove here today. I had never experienced that, and I didn't understand why they were lying there, and why there was something to come from Japan and experience. But it was. At that time it was simply exotic to meet foreigners in Tromsø. We were always very surprised that someone would come here and not just go to the South. But it's not like that anymore. Norway has a unique nature, we live scattered. If you travel around Norway, you will find natural and cultural landscapes that take your breath away. That's what's behind the big growth, I think, and it's not going to be reduced by the years that go by. That's this new situation we have to take over. It is no longer the case that increasing volume is the goal in itself, that the number of new tourists coming to the country is the goal of Norwegian tourism policy. We have to think about what kind of tourism we want. That's exactly what our SV has in hand with this message. The government has also followed some tracks in that direction. We have had a slightly different view of what the government has put into that work there. From a perspective, there is good and bad tourism. Bad tourism can be illustrated by a bunch of tourists who come on a big bus, who have brought their own food and drink, just use the guides, put little more and do this through a foreign operator. Such tourism often has underpaid added and acts as a form of cultural consumption of our country, which we do not want. The good tourism is the one that is short-distance, goes into Norwegian nature in a gentle way, one and drank the most possible Norwegian product and gets the story of Norway from people who live and live in Norway. There are, of course, two cartoons, but I think that within that tense, the Stortinget sees what I'm trying to tell you. This tourism, good tourism, provides the basis for good pay and working conditions and all year round jobs, and not least builds on Norwegian nature. It is in that direction that SV wants to draw Norwegian travel life policies. There is a central input, but the "responsiveness" approach in the message is as if there is only a word that you need to include, not a word that requires action. For this reason, the Swedish authorities propose different measures aimed at bringing both sustainability and good tourism into Norwegian tourism policy. It is a pity that only we are behind, among other things. the land flow proposal in the setting. On the other hand, we are very pleased that Stortinget is going in today to take it back into the maintenance that Norwegian cultural memory is experiencing. It is an important decision, both from a travel perspective and, in particular, to take care of Norwegian nature. It is interesting that this decision is taken in connection with a travel life message and not in connection with other types of messages or decisions in Stortinget. We are also critical of the government's cuts in property taxes. It's like there's an answer to most of it, that one should cut into taxes, while it's actually a bad tool for value creation. Otherwise, I only point to the SV's position in the setting and take up the SV's proposal as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1556	The representative of Torgeir Knag County has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1561	The government has presented a communication on opportunities and challenges in Norwegian travel, where we present our policy for the tourism industry. It was 17 years since the last time the Stortinget was presented with Norwegian travel life in such a thorough manner. Much has happened since then. The result has become attractive Norwegian travel life products – which are sought both at home and outdoors. This means jobs for nearly 160,000 people across the country. Travel life is growing. Since 2013, the number of foreign guest days in Norway has increased by 26 p.m., i.e. Two million more nights. The government wants Norwegian tourism businesses to exploit the increased market potential in a profitable and sustainable way in the future – in order to create safe jobs throughout the country. The government prioritises its efforts in five key areas. The government prioritises good general framework conditions for industrial activities. Our efforts to develop a competitive tax policy mean a lot to travel, especially for businesses that are struggling with profitability. The government’s significant commitment to transport brings tourists faster and safer, and an easily accessible tourism product is much more attractive. Simplification and digitisation are important. For tourism businesses, this means less time to report and follow up legislation and more time to create values. A Joint Liaison Committee will provide the Government with a strategy for common information management and increased machine-to-machine communication in the public sector. The Government’s strategy for information management and the ‘only once’ principle was addressed in the Stortinget last year in the context of the Digital Agenda paper. We are in the process of realizing the principle that information is only reported once. Sustainability is a premise for further development and value creation in the tourism industry. The industry has already implemented many sustainable solutions, and Innovation Norway has developed the world’s first ‘Sustainable Travel Goals’ brand scheme — with success. A majority of the business committee would like the government to present a plan to the Stortinget for the resumption of maintenance of cultural memories in Norway. The government has given the maintenance work a promise, and we will announce new national goals in the cultural memory area in next year's budget. I would also like to highlight the importance of stronger cooperation in Norwegian travel, among other things. to ensure the production of common goods. The new structure of travel destination companies provides the industry with a good starting point for coordinating joint efforts. A Joint Liaison Committee will require the government to develop a strategy to expand the season of the tourism industry. I believe that cooperation across different industries can make the Norwegian travel life product more diverse and thus more attractive throughout the year. The government has developed a strategy for agricultural travel. We will now develop a strategy for culture and travel. More targeted marketing can also lead to more products in the world. Nordlight campaigns have, for example, contributed to a significant growth in the winter season of foreign visitors' holiday in North Norway. The number of guest days has ranged from less than 50 000 in 2006 to 230000 in the winter season 2016. Innovation Norway is actively profiling Norway as a destination in the world. They're going to keep doing this, and we're going to have to measure the effect of profiling more. We need more knowledge about the development and interaction of the tourism industry with the rest of the Norwegian economy. Therefore, we will facilitate the expansion of travel statistics and the continuation of our own research programmes in travel. A majority of the Business Committee would like the government to set in motion efforts to ensure the full range of actors in Norwegian travel life increased digital competence. Innovation Norway is currently offering courses in digital skills for travel businesses, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Travel industry creates great values and jobs for many. Through the Travel Life Communication, the government has provided a basis for Norwegian travel life to develop further and ensure safe jobs throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1597	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1602	It is very gratifying that the entire Committee supports the proposals of the Labour Party in the field of digitisation – including this with a strategy for extending the season, which is supported by a joint committee. That the Storting must take hold again and give a clear message to the Right-front party government, I think it is good that the Storting must. But when can we expect this strategy to come to us?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1609	I heard with interest the representative's comments about having an active travel policy. It was just a shame that there wasn't any results, because it's the way that travel life in Norway over eight red-green years actually didn't have the growth that travel life has now under this government. So we spend money, and we have framework conditions that work, instead of putting money on programs that you don't know about, for example. the regional development funds. Of course, we are dealing with the decision of the Storting, and we will start work as soon as the decision of the Storting is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1616	After all, the crown price was quite different under the previous government when we ruled, and a joint committee has also supported the fact that the marketing measure works in the long term. The Labour Party also has a proposal to focus on a target of several full-year jobs in Innovation Norway’s marketing work. But why is the Council of State so opposed to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1623	It's true that the rate was a different one. That was also the whole economic situation. So the fact that we've had a travel life in growth is because we've been conducting an economic policy that's been good for travel. I am not being deleted against the marketing work for Innovation Norway, I am only concerned that we measure the work. Unlike the Workers' Party, I believe that an active industrial policy is about contributing to programmes that work. That's why, over this government period, we've taken the time to measure the impact of the contributions. Innovation Norway has thus increased its framework by 750 million. kr only above the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries. There are a lot of companies in travel, especially Skylift, that were opened in Loen last weekend and that have paid more than 30 million. SEK from Innovation Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1632	The Council of State promoted transport policy in its contribution. Tourists may come to Norway to get there quickly and experience our motorways, which is not safe at all. However, a policy area that was not mentioned was the meaning of district policy – that there are people in the whole country, that there is an agriculture in the whole country consisting of small and large uses, that fisheries are not centralised, but that there is activity along the coast. My question is: does the Council of State see that an active district policy is entirely decisive for Norway to be closed down with its travel life?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1641	Yes. An active district policy is crucial for travel life. Travel means businesses throughout the country, in the countryside and in the city. And an active transport policy is perhaps the best and most important district policy. That's why it's very good that the government over these years has increased the traffic budget by 50 pst. It means a lot to the prosperity of the whole country. Then I'm not sure whether motorways are the most important, but upgrading both county roads and highways is of course very important, and getting the railway upgraded is very important. This is the feedback from travel life throughout the country when we've traveled around and got a sense of what's important: it's reduced taxes and taxes. It's a bet on transportation. There's a bet on simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1650	In the reply to Heggø, I perceive that the Minister of Industry took the honour that Norway has a low exchange rate now. Most of them are probably a few who say that a low price is a result of the poorer Norwegian economy. Then my question is: is it a political goal to keep the krone price low, or is it desirable that it should rise in the Norwegian economy, with the risk of rising krone prices? And not least, how is business equipped for a situation where the krone price will rise again?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1658	Yes, the exchange rate is decided neither in the Stortinget nor in the government, as the representative knows very well. The krone course is the result of an economic policy, and of course economic policy has a bearing on how business is doing. My reply was to Heggø's statements that despite the government's policy, it was not because of it. I totally disagree with that because I believe that the framework conditions, taxes, transport, simplification, research and innovation are of course of great importance to travel life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1665	I want to ask the Council of State a question about regional development funds, because she says in the room here that they don't work. I just went a little on-line to check out ‘regional development and travel’, and so there are a whole series of travel projects that have received funding in the form of regional development funds across the country. It is about building jobs, it is about accessibility for tourists, it is about safety, for example. standing on the Troll Trail and looking beyond there, building facilities that actually develop and allow travel life. So I wonder how in all the world's countries and rich state councils can actually say that this doesn't work. What is it about not working?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1670	What I said was that you didn't know if it worked. So money was spent on something you never studied – unless the representative is on the knowledge I don't have. The impact on innovation, the impact on value creation, the impact on employment was never investigated. I did not say that not many projects received support. The question was whether that aid led to value added and innovation. We have now done a thorough review, an entirely historical review, of programmes in Innovation Norway, in the Research Council, to look at what creates innovation, what creates values, and what creates employment, and those are the programmes we have prioritised in this period. That is why we want to do so. see that a scheme such as SkattenFUNN, which has increased in each state budget during this period, is now making a record contribution to development work, a record number of enterprises receiving tax credits to carry out development work. It's important, and it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1677	I hear that the Council of State is able to draw up this, and it is of interest when we are talking about regional development funds, for which the Council of State is responsible, in general, and not just about those who are given the means of travel. At least I think it's natural that the Council of State has gone through the effects of regional development funds, since the government has constantly reduced that pot. First of all, it may be unlikely that the counties will have that kind of opportunity for regional development. And it would be interesting to hear why you have reduced hundreds of millions in that pot, since it actually works. Have you reduced those funds without knowing whether they work or not? It could be interesting to hear from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1684	As the representative is sure to know, the regional development funds are not my responsibility. My responsibility is programmes through Innovation Norway and the Research Council, which we have increased because we now know that it works, and we have spent time finding out. One of the things we did at the beginning of this government period was to move funds from regional development funds to county roads, which we believe are much more accurate for business throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1689	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1696	I was delighted to present the travel news at Geilo, I have participated in various debates on this message, and I have visited many different travel companies. The Storting Message has been very well received, and not only the message itself, but also the government's business policy, whether it concerns inheritance tax, property tax, corporate tax, national transport plan, improvements in planning and building law or simplification and digitisation and a number of other measures. It is then very strange to hear the representative, Ingrid Hegø, here today, who argues that growth must have failed rather than because of the Right and the Progress Party's policies. She did not then understand much of the economic policy in Norway. But luckily, most people understand that the Labour Party is just trying to blackmail the government's policy and even take credit for it if things go well for the government. But for the most part, nature and culture are at the heart of the Norwegian tourism product, and the tourism industry must cooperate with other industries. The government is very grateful that they will continue to work with cultural tourism and activity tourism in their own strategies. It is also a desire from many that one should exploit nature better and create a strategy for it. On page 13 of the setting, there is a plural comment that a government is asking how one can better drive tourism in protected areas. After that remark, there is also a plural comment, which the Right and the Advance Party are not in, that points to the government's need to create a strategy for this. There is no strategy on the right, but it must be up to the government itself how they want to develop it. My point is that when you first create an activity-based and cultural strategy for tourism, it may also be natural to create a strategy for how to exploit nature better for nature, tourism and tourism. We have over 3,000 companies with nature-based travel, so this is important for a lot of people. There is already a branding strategy for Norwegian nature parks where the protection regulations lay down the framework for the activity. But they might be too tight in some contexts. In Report. St. 18 for 2015–2016, called Outdoor Life – Nature as a source of health and quality of life, tells us to have a non-discrimination between commercial and other activities. In this way, a strategy may help to make bottlenecks visible in order to achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1705	‘Experience Norway – unique and adventurous’ is a good title on a big message that describes our beautiful and magnificent country in a way that shows all the amazing travel opportunities we have and can further develop, and policies for it. This country, which gives us varying experiences when it comes to weather and wind, fits as a hand in the glove when one sees that many want an active experience holiday rather than a passive spectator experience. The possibilities are many in this lush and beautiful country of ours. Yeah, actually, we see that some places have to start thinking about reducing the load. We have the most – from pristine nature to the world's steepest gondola in Loen, which the Council of State also described. The alternatives are many and cover both the city and the district in a good way. I myself live in the entrance to Storfjorden, where we daily see large, beautiful, white cruise ships sailing past on the road inwards towards Geiranger or Hjørundfjorden, where 750,000 tourists fill these cruise ships, which through the summer half-year visit these two fjords, which are among the most beautiful we have. The attendance records are advertised almost daily and are in a strange contrast to the claim from the Workers' Party too little too late. The main challenge is to expand the seasons so that the winter season can also bring rich experiences. This work we see that the tourism industry is well under way, cf. North light safari, snow sniper safari and other offers that we see the travelers appreciate. Then it is with wonder I hear the Labour Party’s criticism of the fare and VAT on overnight. The fact is that the Workers' Party supports the increase in VAT in its budget and also supports the fare. The flight fee is a story for itself. First they were for her, then they were against her, then they were for her, and then they were against her, so to speak, no, we're going to have an environmental tax instead. Which one calls it, it certainly has less meaning. In fact, there is a charge that would affect as much as the air fare that this government was with and introduced. It shows that the Labour Party is more concerned with criticising than with making constructive proposals to lift an industry that is important for both district, city and country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1722	I need to say something related to the post from the representative Heggø from the Workers' Party. I had prepared to say something about my and the government's policy before this debate. It had obviously also been prepared by the representative Heggø to talk about our policy. It's a little strange -- I have to say -- that all the positive things are happening in travel now, despite the government's policy, not because of the government's policy, according to Hegø. One thing is that we get blamed for everything that goes wrong in this country, that's the opposition's privilege, and we've become quite used to it. Now it's like what goes well is also going to be discredited to this government. I think that's interesting. It is of particular interest when the representative Heggø draws up in particular two reasons why travel life is growing despite, and not because of, government policy, namely, that of the representative Grimstad, the airline passenger fee and the increase in VAT from 8 to 10 p.m. on, among others, overnight. I stunned a little when I heard it. At the same time as the speaker made himself relatively tall and dark here on the platform, I went into the Workers' Party's alternative budget and checked how the stand was there. One thing is when you criticize something you disagree with, which is quite another when you come across criticism of politics you have taken. It gets very hollow, and it doesn't lead to a more informative debate. Then comes, as always, the usual criticism of active versus passive industrial policy. Presenting a big message – the first in 17 years – must be active policy. The Workers' Party – Heggøs Party – had the opportunity to submit a notification every year between 2005 and 2013 – eight years – but did not. If you read the position we are discussing today, it is a minority proposal from the Labour Party. The big difference between an active or passive enterprise policy is one suggestion in a set of several dozen pages. That's also interesting. So Hegø said in the line change that the reason why the growth in travel life was low in their period was the second price. Then it is worth recalling the Workers' Party's scare campaign before the 2013 election that if the Right and Advance Party took over the government offices, the exchange rate and interest rates came to the ceiling. It has not happened, and that is one of the good reasons why travel life today is going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1733	This has been an interesting debate, and to put it that way, I think everyone in the Business Committee is concerned that travel industry is doing well, and that it is important that we have a policy that builds up under it. This is, of course, one of the fastest growing industries in the world at the moment, and Norway has good prospects for success. Then we were just going to lack the ability to succeed in the nature that we have in this country, and with the resources and capacities that we actually have. Now there are many who have drawn the peasant romantic image, wild and beautiful nature, local food, unique cultural heritage, etc., so I think that it has actually been important to bet on marketing for a long time. When we were in government, we had an increase from 2005 to 2014. NOK 270 million. kr to what's going on marketing, and we want to focus, of course, on the fact that it's important to get in place. But then I want to say that there are actually new records for travel in Norway at the moment, and we are very happy about that – I think everyone here is happy about it. It sounds like it's a sad chapter that things are going well, but it's actually not. Then we can discuss what kind of political framework conditions have been involved and contributed to it, or what we think we have done that has not worked. But I just have to be allowed to say to the representative of Bjørnstad that, as far as the economic situation is concerned, we have been concerned about how it was going to go with the Right and the Advance Party in government, as one wanted to pursue a policy where one takes a lot more of the oil money and starts with the suction pipe down into the honey pot to manage to put enough money into what is to be of well-being in this society, and not least in view of the tax policy that the government has led. And that's also shown with this travel life message. For our part, it has been important to focus on all-year jobs, and when we see how many young people meet in this industry for the first time, it is important that we look at both the types of jobs you encounter and the exciting opportunities you actually have here. Many people may want to have a part-time job – and it's natural that you have it – but I think many people gradually want to build skills, to have full-time jobs here, with facilities that can help make places you might have travelled to in the summer alone, you can travel to in winter and all year round. It's important to get hold of it. Then it might be important to mention that one could have got more out of a strategy for conferences etc. Around the country, but I also think it's very good here, and the disagreements lie there, but at the same time we're happy that it's going well for the travel industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1743	The representative Sivert Bjørnstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1748	I am pleased that the Workers' Party is now clarifying that they are happy that there is growth in the tourism industry. That, I think, is a positive remark on the tame of the debate. So it's not right that there's such a big difference in e.g. the use of oil money between the government and the Labour Party — there is talk of the level of per million between the different budgetary options. But the Workers' Party and the Botten can get some tips on the tame of the debate on what is going on to stimulate business and travel in particular: Tax reliefs, including innovation instruments such as TAX FUNN and BIA, assist. Very few companies demand an increase in the tax burden of at least 15 billion. kr. 50 pst. Increases in the transport budget help. Competence, education, R & D and innovation are helping – there has been a high growth in these appropriations in the last four years. Between 2005 and 2013, there were several years of real decline in research appropriations from the State. It's not the way to go if you want a viable and sustainable business in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1768	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1784	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1793	The social role of mineral industries cannot be underestimated, and it is important that mineral resources are managed so that they contribute to growth and development in a sustainable and good way to the benefit of society. It is a goal that the industry should be world-leading and take on environmentally friendly and forward-looking solutions. The industry itself is forward-looking and has created a roadmap for all of us to understand the industry and the future, where they also point to a number of measures that the government has already met in a good way. The proposal for a document 8, which we are discussing today, points to a number of the good measures that have already been taken. A range of occurrences are mapped, but if mineral nutrients are to grow and evolve, public permission is also required. This may have been the largest bottleneck in the industry before the government took over Solberg. The government has thus granted permission to Engebø, Nussir and Nasafjellet. Mineral industries compete in demanding and dynamic global markets. An effective and competent mineral industry is a competitive advantage that we need to exploit. There is hardly a product that works without minerals as the necessary input factor. It is difficult to see both measurement, paper, solar cells and new batteries without increased mineral use – yes, perhaps new knee replacements for that part. The Western world's way of life and the fact that an increasingly large part of the world is taking part in this well-being increase the need for minerals. And mountain Norway is rich in minerals. Probably that's also the case for the mountain that's submerged, that's out on our bottom. In many parts of Norway, mineral extraction can lead to increased activity, increased value creation and profitable and good jobs. The right will therefore facilitate additional mineral activity in Norway, including in the field of district policy. The environmental objectives of the mineral industry must show that the resource extraction is not a renewable resource, and that one must take special care of the ecosystem around the enterprise. A research project for the period 2014–2019 has been launched to contribute to more knowledge of landfill and how sea landfills can be combined with other commercial activities, such as: marine nutrition. Per today is 50 pst. of the land area in Norway charted. There are several good practices here. That being said, there is little doubt that there is also a need for further mineral mapping, both on land and on the seabed. It is important that mineral nutrients develop in a good way. The industry is in good development. The government has started to evaluate both the mineral laws and several other measures that strengthen this important industry. The majority think that there is no need for a big message about the mineral industry now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1821	The mineral industry is an important industry for Norway, with 5,000 annual works and a turnover of more than 12 billion. kr. Mineral resources must be managed in a way that contributes to the development of a sustainable and value-creating industry for the benefit of society. We must have ambitions that this industry at home should have one of the world's most environmentally friendly and forward-looking solutions. Norway has great geological resources. The occurrences are scattered and provide value creation and jobs across the country. These resources have also been a pillar of the Norwegian economy and technological development for many years. In the future, it will be essential to have access to important mineral resources to develop new products and new industries. Therefore, it is necessary to identify the resources available and how they can be extracted in the most sustainable way possible. Norway’s geological survey, NGU, calculates that detected and assumed ground resources represent values of 2500 billion. kr, and according to the NHO, this represents a processing value of 8000 billion. kr – it is almost difficult to deal with. It can generate large and important growth in this industry — and not least exports to Norway in the future. There is hardly a product that functions without minerals as the necessary input factor. It is difficult to imagine plastics, paper, solar cells and new and better batteries without the use of minerals. When we drive on the road, we may not think of thanking the mineral nourishment for the puke that is under the asphalt, and for the asphalt. When we chew ‘tyggis’, we may not be thinking about thanking the mineral nutrition, which helps the ‘tyggis’ get into our mouths when we chew, and not just disappear. And when we drive an electric car, we may not be thinking about saying thank you to the mineral industry, which has contributed to the batteries, etc. There are amazingly many of these products that affect us in everyday life. If we look at this internationally, we see that increasing living standards and less poverty in the world also increase the need for new minerals. Our mountains can town on minerals, but probably also mountains that are under water, down on the seabed, can city on quite a lot of the same. Yesterday, I was in a meeting with a number of nutritionists in Ulstein who were busy getting a survey of the seabed, and who thought that much of the technology we already have, and the ways we operate on the seabed today, can help us do this in a gentle and fast way. We in the Workers' Party believe it is important to strike a good balance between the development of sustainable jobs in the mineral industry and the consideration of the environment and communities around it. Minerals are a non-renewable resource, which we must also take care of for future generations. This shows that it is important to identify resources, both on land and on the base. The Stoltenberg II government launched a major investment in this industry, where we put in place a mineral law, a mineral strategy and a very comprehensive survey of Norway’s mineral resources. But still it's about 49 pst. of the land area in Norway surveyed. A complete survey is of great importance for future value creation and jobs across the country. I think we can agree on that – but we have to do it. I just have to say that the Fraser index, which ranks countries according to the attractiveness of the mineral industry, said in 2013 that Norway was ranked as the 10th best country, while in 2017 we are down to 19th place. It's a signal that's important to bring with it. You should look at what happened. Why aren't we higher up? Maybe we should have climbed more to the top than fall down. In our proposal, we have asked the government to present a big message related to the mineral industry and have put in a whole series of proposals that it is important to address. We've got a response from the Council of State to what you want to do with this, and how far you've come. Monitoring is one thing, but it is important for us to look at how we can strengthen the predictability of the proceedings and reduce the processing time, which I know the Council of State agrees with. It is also important to strengthen governance in order to address the different environmental requirements, Sami rights and guidance for municipalities. The President has stood up, so...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1844	There's four seconds left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1849	I think I'm just saying that the council has replied in letters, and then we get to agree or disagree on what's there. I'm going to deal with the proposals that the Labour Party has with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1856	The representative Else-May Botten has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1861	As one of the neighbours of Norway's geological survey, NGU, and the Directorate of Mineral Management at Lade in Trondheim during my childhood, I got my first meeting with science fiction. This was in the mid-1990s and before mobile phones and laptops were all-round. There I met some hell-blown professors, as it is called in the film, who told me that in a few years, ordinary people could send live movies between themselves – everything recorded on their cell phone, which was to be equipped with a tiny little camera. All of this should be done because of 60-70 bits of small minerals inside the small cell phone. You didn't need Star Wars or Star Trek to get excited, wonder and fascinate at Laden in the mid-1990s. It lasted a long time with a directorate. The really fascinating thing was that they got right, and that it's really gone incredibly fast. Today, minerals are used in about everything — medicines, solar cells, ceramics, boat propellers, pencils, deodorants and fertilizers, to name something. The possibilities in the future are innumerable, and the discoveries can be many. Where, in the previous case, in the travel news, we discussed an industry with relatively low value creation per employed person, we definitely do not do so in this case. A turnover of more than 12 billion. Disaggregated by more than 5000 annual works, this is a very valuable industry. Most of the minerals are exported abroad, in particular industrial minerals. As the previous speaker also pointed out, NGU has estimated that detected and assumed ground resources represent values of 2,500 billion. kr. The NHO believes that it represents a processing value of about 8000 billion. kr. It's money, it's also -- an entire oil fund, actually. The Committee notes in its opinion that less poverty and higher living standards in the world are increasing the need for minerals. It is a little difficult to say what came first from the hen and egg in this case — whether it is the minerals that have led to less poverty and increased living standards, or whether it is the latter that leads to increased demand. Whatever the order, this is a future industry that Norway has very good prerequisites for further processing. Just as on the base for the production and retrieval of hydrocarbons, in an international context, we have a strict regime related to nature and the environment. It's important that we develop it further here at home, and not least that we do the same thing internationally. I am pleased that the Council of State has confirmed that the government is working on it along several tracks, especially the part dealing with seabeds, which is particularly important to us too. The proposal focuses a great deal on exploration and monitoring activities and comments. I think you have to look a long time to find someone who doesn't agree with the importance of it, but it's so important that projects are started. Unfortunately, there has been little activity until this government took over. Now we have adopted and granted permits for mining in Engebø, Nussir and Nasaphellet. It means important jobs and important value creation for District Norway. Finally, we do not think there is a need for a mineral 21 process in this round. The mineral industry is a large, transparent and well-coordinated industry. We believe it is good that the industry itself invests in R & D activities. It provides a basis for future growth and development. We think it is very positive that the Minister of Industry has announced that one is working on a revision and an evaluation of the Mineral Law. Although it is not that long since the law was first passed, a lot happens in a few years in such an industry. I think it can provide a good starting point for further discussion about the mineral industry. So far, it's actually going pretty well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1878	There is no doubt that the mineral industry is an important industry for Norway. We know that this industry in 2015 traded for 12.5 billion. kr, and that the export share was total 52 pst. Strengthening mineral nutrition is therefore important for further growth and value creation. In addition, we know that many of the jobs in this industry are spread across the country, especially in the districts. This shows the importance of this industry to ensure good, safe and interesting jobs. Minerals are also part of the future and will be important in the green shift we're in. We need minerals to increase renewable energy, to make batteries for electric cars, etc. As the committee writes in the setting, there is hardly a product that functions without minerals as the necessary input factor. The presentation by representatives earlier in the debate has shown that. At the same time, we have high ambitions for the sustainability of the industry. Our mineral industry, as it emerges from the mineral strategy, must be among the world's most environmentally friendly and have future-oriented solutions. Minerals are central to technological development, and we here in Norway have a great potential to develop the mineral industry and participate in what is happening. At the same time, it is important that we have a good balance between job creation and value creation and environmental and community considerations. Minerals are a non-renewable resource that we have to manage properly. It is therefore important to map all our mineral resources, both on land and underwater, so that we know what we have, and can manage it in a knowledge-based way. It is also important to ensure that increased value creation in this industry also benefits the community concerned. I will end by saying that it is good that the government is already reviewing the mineral law. It is important that we have legislation that is up-to-date and that meets today's reality. As stated earlier, Norway has a great potential for developing this industry, and we will do so together with the industry, the community concerned and in a way that will protect our environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1891	There is no doubt that mineral nutrition is an industry with enormous potential and a great potential for value creation. It's also an industry that I feel the political parties are approaching in three different ways. It's a good thing to meet the resistance of mineral nutrients, an attempt to limit nutrition, a thought that minerals are something we can import from other countries, and that we don't need so much to extract from Norway. The other way to meet the industry is with passivity. This means that one records that the nutrition is big and important, but is betting that it will go well without one interfering too much. I feel that it's the government line. It is also possible to meet mineral nutrients with an active policy, and the Central Party wants an active policy to trigger the potential of the industry. I support the need for an evaluation of mineral laws. I think there's a strong need to complete the mapping of both our land and our sea area. There is a need to streamline the procedures and to ensure more prudent conditions for operators. There is a need for closer cooperation between public – at all levels – and private actors. There is a need for increased research and development work on minerals and to reduce the environmental impact of extraction. And there is a need to impose stricter international environmental requirements on the mineral industry. Mineral nutrition is an industry that needs it. She can value it in Norway. She's important in the climate work. The various uses of minerals are described in detail in previous articles. But I think it's an important point that both Norway and Europe have low self-sufficiency of minerals. I note that the majority do not want a staging message where all of this can be treated together. I also record that the same majority that is opposed to a big message for the mineral industry, just a short time since hailing the meaning of an own big message for the tourism industry. The Central Party and I believe it would be a strength for the mineral industry to get a comprehensive policy approach, and that it would have contributed to giving greater legitimacy to nutrition and better coordination of the various measures needed to exploit the potential of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1906	I would like to stress to an overall committee that an efficient and competent mineral industry is a competitive advantage that Norway needs to exploit. The mineral industry is an important industry for Norway. In this picture, it is particularly important that we pay attention to the environment and sustainability of the mineral sector. That is why, together with SV, we are proposing a commitment to more recycling and reuse of minerals, among other things. through increased research and development and through the mapping and use of minerals from landfills. That is why we will call on mining companies to set aside the necessary funds to clean up an environmental fund, and therefore we will ban fjord landfills, to mention some of the proposals. I will end by addressing the proposals that the left-hand side is behind. In this respect, I would also like to refer to the proposal No. Four and eight. These proposals are so similar that one proposal, proposal No. 8, pull. This has been done in consultation with SV's representative Torgair Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1916	The representative of Pál Farstad then raised the proposals he referred to, and also made it clear that proposal No. 8 is drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1921	Mineral nutrition is a fundamental part of the otherwise non-biobased industry. If Norway is to have new industrialisation as its goal at a time when there is no longer cheap labour that determines, but competence and proximity to power and mineral, then Norwegian minerals are very important. But we have to go into this with our eyes open and look at today's situation before we run on. Firstly, apart from Great Norske, which is under a certain form of liquidation, Norway does not currently have any major mineral company. The biggest are Canadian and Australian. Secondly, today's mineral industry is characterised by the fact that large parts of them added to the mining industry are flying in and out again – often from abroad – and we get platform communities that are not particularly good social development. Thirdly, the regulation of the mineral industry, both with regard to emissions and income to the State and the municipality, is very deficient. Thus we say that with a mineral regime that is both subservient to nature, creates few local, permanent jobs and contributes little to the income side. So we're going to need a bunch of grips before the mineral industry becomes the industry that Norway can really invest in. SV will ensure a good balance between the new development of the mineral industry and the concern for the environment and local communities. That's our line. Norway is a richly mineralised mountain, which has good leadership and has given us many jobs, but also major problems with pollution, including: fjord landfill. For SV, it is therefore important to take the following steps to get a mineral regime that we believe will be good for both the nation and the environment. Firstly, create a state mineral company in the same way as Norway has done in previous times in the other major Norwegian industries. A state-owned company will contribute in the front line through the development of technologies, the provision and development of methods in line with Norwegian nature conservation considerations, while safeguarding national interests, creating values and jobs, national and local. Furthermore, we should rank minerals and extractions according to global needs for the development of new technologies. The most sought-after minerals to build new technologies in line with the Paris Agreement should be given priority. Thirdly, we will impose stricter environmental requirements. SV will require support for research and development to exploit the residual raw material in the ore in a crop cycle and develop methods of rehabilitation after mining. Cleaning-up requirements for the fund removal must be set before winding-up. Fourth, together with the Left, SV would like to ban sea landfills. SV will impose a charge on the dumping of mining waste while requiring recycling and refilling. Finally, we need a completely different focus on recycling and reuse. Mineral is a non-renewable resource that we need to preserve for future generations. While we're thinking of mineral as a mining industry, the minerals are everywhere, and we have to bet on recycling already used material. Steps must be taken to get an overview of metal contents in old landfills and in pulp extraction. There's probably a lot of minerals here that we ignore when we think about minerals. With that, I want to address the suggestions from SV that are not already made by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1942	The representative, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, has taken up the proposal from SV where the left is not included.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1947	It is positive that the mineral industry is on the agenda. There are high values in Norwegian mountains and on the seabed, and the mineral industry has a potential for growth and new profitable jobs, especially in the districts. I note that we agree that it must be put into the industry and that it must be sustainable. The government’s industrial and industrial policies focus on good general framework conditions: business-promoting tax relief, transport, knowledge and industrial innovation and simplification. It is as important for the mineral industry as for other industries. In the recently submitted industrial communication, the government has explained the industrial policy of the future. The government's vision is that Norway should be a leading industrial and technology nation. We are pursuing an offensive policy on green migration, we are facilitating the access of profitable businesses to capital, and we will continue the strong commitment to industry-related research and innovation. The members of the Committee from the Workers' Party and the Centre are engaged in mineral mapping. So am I. Monitoring is important and is one of the core tasks of Norway’s geologic survey, NGU. We're going to continue to bet on mineral mapping in the years to come. In the revised budget for 2017, we have also proposed 8 million. kr to a drill core mapping in the Fensfeld in Telemark. The fenfield contains a large incidence of, among others: the metal niobium and rare earth metals. These are metals that are necessary in the production of green technology. Mineral mapping alone is not enough to generate growth in the mineral industry. The government has demonstrated action and confirmed the regulatory plan for Nordic Mining's plans for the extraction of the titanium raw material rutile from Engebøfelet and Nussir's plans for the extraction of large deposits of copper in Finnmark. We have also approved Elkem's control plan for quartz fractures in the municipality of Rana, which helps to develop several of Elkem's works in Norway. The willingness to produce such projects — provided they can be expected to be profitable — is crucial for investors to perceive Norway as an attractive country for mineral activities. The government has been committed to improving the efficiency of the Law on Planning and Building, which helps to speed up the implementation of new activities by the mineral industry. We have also invested in our own research programme on maritime landfills, and we have recently sent proposals for new and modern regulations for mineral extraction on the seabed at general consultation. The priority is to get the legislation in place as quickly as possible. The Directorate for Mineral Management has been significantly strengthened to provide better and more predictable services to the mineral industry. Since the entry into force of the Mineral Act in 2010, crews have more than doubled and operational appropriations more than tripled. I have noticed that the nutrition committee is in favour of my initiative to evaluate the mineral law. We have already started work and put great emphasis on good dialogue with the mineral industry and management in order to get a thorough and targeted evaluation. There are high values in Norwegian mountains and on the seabed, and the government will continue its efforts to facilitate the realisation and contribution of more profitable mineral projects across the country. The evaluation of the Mineral Act will provide a better overall basis for assessing the overall nature of mineral policy. I aim to come back with my own case to the Great Council on Mineral Policy in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1968	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1973	In the representative proposal from the Labour Party, we come up with proposals for a lot of different measures that we want to focus on. In her letter of reply, she pointed out that the government would be working on international environmental requirements for the mineral industry, and it is of course very positive that it is clear. However, I would like to hear from the Council of State what concrete issues have been raised, towards the EU or other countries, related to environmental requirements, what has been focused on in that dialogue, and what one sees as one can land on by cooperation internationally in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1978	We probably have the world's most stringent environmental requirements for the mineral industry. It could actually be one of the explanations that we have fallen on the index to which the representative referred. We work through different forums – through the EU, through our agreements relating to free trade, where international framework conditions are important, linked to industrial activities in general and environmental impacts in particular. So this is what we focus on in our meetings with the EU — especially — and with countries we negotiate, for example. free trade agreements with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1983	I am not sure if I got a very clear answer, because it was pointed out what to do in connection with free trade agreements. I thought more about concrete things you've put in there. What has been achieved, if any, by focusing on environmental requirements? We have two free trade agreements to deal with in Stortingen now. Have we got any results when it's going to focus on the environment there? That's one question. I also want to ask the Council of State questions about the monitoring, which has actually stopped in NGU, in relation to the initiative that was taken, and the money that was granted when we were in government. Why has that process been stopped? The government responded to this in connection with the 2016 budget, by pointing out that the refugee flow became demanding and that money had to be found. But what's the answer to the question of why you haven't invested so far in 2017, even though there's going to be a few million dollars in revision?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1992	Firstly, all modern free trade agreements contain separate chapters on the environment. It is part of the requirements we set when negotiating agreements — and then there are environmental requirements related to industrial activities in general. With regard to the mapping allocation, it is not the case that the mapping stopped. This is the main work of the NGU. But what's cut is the extra appropriations you received in your time. I would like to continue that effort, but we have been exposed to a very special situation related to both refugees and the fact that we have had to implement additional measures that have a short-term impact, which creates employment in the short term. Then that's the bets we've had to make through our state budgets. But we do not disagree that screening is important, although I believe that one of the most important things we do is to dry up decisions in difficult matters. So does the industry. Decisions need to be put in place in difficult cases to get predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e1999	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2006	The Workers' Party wants through this Document 8 proposal to be able to help the Storting to boost the mineral industry. This industry has a great opportunity to become a growing industry that can contribute to food development across the country. The Labour Party is an industrial party, and for us, the mining industry has a natural place in the discussion of what Norway will live on in the future, also in relation to the green shift. This is an industry that the Stoltenberg government has raised by adopting a new mineral law, which has released five other laws, and a specific mineral strategy, and that we have launched comprehensive monitoring programmes in both North and South Norway. In the future, access to important mineral resources will be crucial for the development of new industries. Therefore, a rapid identification of available resources and how they can be developed and extracted in a sustainable way is needed. NGU has – as we have heard – estimated that detected and assumed ground resources represent values of 2,500 billion. kr. Therefore, it is very regrettable that the government has cut 25 million annually in the last two years. kr intended for the programmes in North and South Norway, and important competences are in the process of being lost in this context. It is also disappointing that the Right-Fremskritsparte government does not see the importance of being on the proposals today, where we ask the government to give a big message about a new power cap for the mineral industry. We address what this message should contain through eight key issues that will help raise the industry — and it will be crucial in the future to have access to important mineral resources to develop new industries. Nor do they see the need to launch a 21-process for a coordinated R & D strategy between authorities, industry and research. This government has expressed in its government statement that this industry is a field of activity, but the industry has commented that they are still waiting for concrete measures. This testifies to a government with little power to act and implement. It is clearly expressed through the so-called Fraser index, which each year ranks over one hundred countries according to their attractiveness to the international investor markets of the mineral industry and of which the Council of State expressed the importance. Norway has fallen from the 10th place to the 19th place in this ranking. It speaks in my opinion that the government has not succeeded in the effort expressed in the government statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2020	There is hardly a mineral-free product as the necessary input factor, and plastic, paper, solar cells and new and better batteries are difficult to deal with without increased mineral use. Mountain Norway is rich in minerals. This is probably also the case for the submerged mountain – on the bottom of the sea. In order to grow and develop mineral nutrients, it is important that resources are mapped and the necessary permits for mining are granted, and that one facilitates the way this government has done through changes in the planning and building laws. The Committee has also received letters from the Minister of Industry, dated 1 March 2017, stating that the government has decided to launch a holistic and thorough process of evaluating the mineral law. Then I register that there is criticism from the opposition that 25 billion has been used. kr in tax reliefs rather than mineral deposits. The question is how many times do you want to use these 25 billion? It is now that monitoring does not necessarily give the desired activity, and one can only note that under the previous government there was a significant refusal of decision. During today's Right-front party government, mining is allowed in Engebo, Nussir and Nasafjellet, and this government has significantly greater support than the previous government has given to municipal plans that have been objected to by the State, which have reopened for the desired mineral extraction. This government has opened up for the industry to deposit waste mass in the sea under strict environmental monitoring. A thorough and careful assessment of this environmental problem has been carried out and will be followed by an arctic eye in the future. I feel confident that this will be resolved within a resilient and forward-looking regime. It's just that all human activity will create images, and we can't, as a modern society, expect other countries and regions to take on the environmental impact of making demands and using the minerals that a modern country needs. The left and the SV point out that mining often causes disadvantages to the communities it is in, and will provide compensation to municipalities for which this is provided through a resource tax. In addition, they will place the necessary funds on funds to cover cleaning. To this end, it is only to say that if you are to specialise in customizing such taxes to all the industries, including yard noise, quarry dust, etc., it will not be easier to operate business and business in the future, and at least there will be no fewer bureaucrats to fix and provide for compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2039	I take the floor because the representative Else-May Botten lacks better and more efficient proceedings, and Omland argues that the government has a lack of action. I just want to remind you of the Engebøjellet project. The public received the application in 2007, and a new government had to do it. So ten years of trial time used the previous government without any result. It is strange to hear the argument of the Workers' Party today that one lacks both more efficient processing and action when one to those degrees has been absent in the case of Engebø, which I know very well myself. The Council of State calls for important changes in the Planning and Building Act to have a good effect on mineral industry. I would like to remind you that the Labour Party chose in connection with Innst. 181 L for 2016-2017 to vote against most of the things we suggested there. These changes had also benefited the mineral industry. There's a long way between what the Labour Party says in this case today and what they're actually doing. The fact is that it has been many years since it has conducted such a good policy for the mineral industry as this government has shown. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2048	Else-May Bottom is drawing again, very late.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2053	I drew myself late because the comments from Ove Trellevik came late. It is important to reduce the processing time, because different projects have taken a very long time. Honorable should be given to those who are honored for the fact that different projects have actually landed. But saying that we have been sitting and dealing with the Engebøfelet for ten years – we were in government for eight years, so 10 years is at least well gone. That the application came while we were in government, and that today's government completed it, is correct. But that the eight red-green years have become ten, that was new to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2058	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2074	There is an overall committee which supports the suspension of Norway’s fisheries agreements for 2017 and fishing under the agreements in 2015 and 2016. The fisheries agreements are based on long-term management work, which provides the basis for us today to harvest from robust fish stocks and engage in economic activity in our marine areas. Up towards 90 pst. of the resources we harvest, we share with other countries. International cooperation and agreements are therefore essential for successful and sustainable fisheries management and for combating fishing crime and non-regulated fishing. Sustainable harvesting of fishing resources requires regulation of the total fishing activity and control of actual fishing. The agreements shall ensure that the harvesting of fish stocks is based on independent scientific advice on quotas and management measures and contain binding assumptions on quota allocation, management measures and control cooperation. There is broad – not to say full – political agreement on this line of Norwegian policy. I do not agree with the different agreements, but I would like to point out that the Committee stresses the importance of the conclusion of international agreements on fishing quotas with all parties and that the Committee believes that the uncertainty surrounding the agreements may be negative for the long-term and good economic and sustainable management of fishing resources. Otherwise, I refer to the vote and the recommendation of an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2089	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2105	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2114	First, I would like to thank the Committee for the rapid and effective handling of the notification. The Storting Message is a collection of different call decisions from the previous deposit session, and I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Ministry for giving the Committee an opportunity to consider this gathering. Normally this is sent through another committee, the control and the constitution committee. Here the Business Committee has been able to deal with important fisheries policy issues and their follow-up, so I would like to thank the Ministry and the Minister for that. There are a number of different decisions that Stortingen has dealt with here. The first decision is Decision No. 678 for 2014-2015, on production area. Here the Committee largely agrees with the government's assessment and division into different production areas. The difference here is that SV will create fire holes between the areas to prevent spreading, and that these areas will be able to be applied to closed technologies to prevent further spreading. When it comes to the action plan against resistance, the Storting is satisfied and in agreement with the government’s assessment. Where the strategy against escape is based on a zero vision – this is Decision No. 681 for 2014-2015 – the Committee strongly agrees with the assessment, but a majority would also like to be able to consider different more stringent measures to achieve this vision. In the case of Decision No: 569 for 2015-2016, which is about moving the quota year, the Committee also agrees with the government's assessment not to move the quota year now, but to wait for follow-up from the Eidesen selection. In the case of Decision No: 570 for 2015-2016, which deals with quota flexibility, the Committee is largely in agreement with the government’s assessment, but has different assessments of which schemes will more effectively ensure smoother and more prudent raw material access. In the case of Decision No: 573 for 2015-2016, which deals with pricing, the Committee also agrees with the government's assessment that it is not appropriate to initiate new distributions on the role of the salads as the market place owner, but different assessments of how to understand the establishment of the national reference price index. At least this member of the Storting will look forward to doing so and follow it closely. Then we've come to Decision No. 577 for 2015–2016, which concerns nationality requirements. Should Norway impose new nationality requirements in order to be able to participate in Norwegian fisheries? Today, only the limitation that one must be a Norwegian citizen is valid in order to be able to participate as owner in fishing on vessels over 15 metres. Here the majority of the committee believes that the arrangement of today should be continued, while the members of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV want to consider lowering the limit to 11 meters, where it is not possible to structure, so that a good structure does not escape the nationality requirement. Finally, Decision No. 919 for 2015–2016, which deals with the so-called ‘instruction’ case. A number of members of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Right Party and the Labour Party, have agreed that this is the model for which the Fisheries Team set up, where one limits the possibility of moving quotas upwards to boat sizes and allowable lengths to be applied, and here the Government asks the Government to implement the Fish Team's model on the first occasion. I can only make it clear that 'on the first occasion' means as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2143	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2148	Yes, I'm promoting the proposals from the Center Party and SV in the same sling.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2153	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2158	I want to start with a few comments on the production area of salmon and aure, which are fixed. What's amazing is that Sandberg, the State Council of the Advance Party, has gone away from the line on which Vik Aspaker from the Right was clocky when it broke down into production areas, where power tables and scientific models would form the basis for the division. The models were for premature, everyone in the nutrition committee meant. This was also supported by the listener. Everyone in the nutrition committee meant this, as I said, with the exception of the Right in the Storting. The Government Party submitted proposals to the Committee that all concessions should be linked to one production area. This was also supported by a Joint Committee. Now, the Progress Party State Councils have changed this to link all concessions to two production areas, without specifying how to maintain the function of production areas such as buffers or fire holes. Here we clearly lack an explanation and an answer from the Council of State. Long-term and far-sighted conditions are important for such a great industry. I would like to stress from the Labour Party that we are going to have a technology-neutral approach. Therefore, we do not support a closed system directive this time either. The anti-resistance action plan must be followed up. It's good that a joint committee points this out. The same applies to a strategy for escape, which is based on a zero vision. Measures introduced for the defrosting of escaped farmed salmon are good. There is a split layer between those who don't have the selection or the tracking of the fish. This has actually had a very good effect. Fatfin marking, on the other hand, would have meant that a lighter would have seen what was farmed fish, and what was wild fish, in the river. However, physically accounting for about 400,000 million farmed fish each year to take out a few hundred fish that escape annually, has negative animal welfare consequences. I think it also needs to be seen in a diet-benefit perspective. The Labour Party supports what the Food Authority says here, that the negative animal welfare consequences do not outweigh the benefits of implementing such a measure. The working party is also saying that, when moving the quota year, wait for the Eidesen selection to be set. The same applies to changes in quota flexibility, the extension of the system of fresh fish – to which we are otherwise very positive – and also to the extension of the system of live stocks for cod to one year. It has been a doubling of the number of foreign vessels under 15 meters. The Labour Party thinks that we have to look at what's causing this, and figure out whether the limit should be moved down to below 11 meters, where it's not possible to structure. Finally to the instructions. Here's the word shortcut 'Not cool makes any summer' right. There was a joint committee that more or less instructed the Council of State to introduce water-stretched shots, as the Fisker team had called for, not only at 11 meters, but also at 21 meters. We've pointed this out several times in the Labour Party. Most of the other opposition parties have also been concerned about the question. When the state council doesn't listen, see the big crowd today down the foot. I'd like to express the special support so that they too put their feet down – and stood on that foot together with the others in opposition. Cooperation is strong. This will result in a multiplicity of conditions and a robust framework, just like the industry’s demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2177	I would like to thank the Council of State for the way in which he presented this message. It's a good and transparent collection of these different decisions that the Storting has made, so this is a good way to do it. I will first proceed to Decision No. 678, which deals with this area of production, which was also mentioned earlier. I want to give tribute to the Council of State for having had an affair when it comes to using two production areas, including the smaller ones, so that it's not just the biggest players that have the potential to use more production areas. So there's a point that the representative ingrid Heggø mentions here, that it has to be solved, because it's much better that one solves it than that one can't get one to use two production areas – this is well received by the little ones who are breeding. And I would also like to mention that when this new growth regime comes into force in the fall, and each of these zones is going to have its own color -- red, yellow or green, depending on what the researchers and the professional recommendations might recommend -- I feel that what's written to now, at least of these researchers, is cracking a lot. And there are several relevant questions here, e.g. why the researchers tell us different stories about lucid mortality, and that the researchers themselves think that we also need much more knowledge about the melt when it's in the sea, and the application model for lice, and about the cause of mortality among the melt in the sea. So I want to encourage the Council of State to wait on the demand for red zone production reduction until we get more knowledge of the melt in the sea before this new regime hits 100 pst. in force with the different zonings and the consequences of how this is done in the different areas. So I'm going to turn my attention to Decision No. 681, which is about strategies for zero vision for escape. The Government Party does not agree that measures taken by the Government to impose environmental requirements should have economic consequences for those who are engaged in farming. Today, measures such as those imposed by the government, for example, are in force. the slowing down of production has considerable economic consequences. So that's not what we're against, but if the case-speaker had to argue in this case that one should be able to impose fines, then that's what we're against, and not that we're necessarily going to introduce measures to improve fish welfare, luxuries and such things – it must have an economic impact. We are against the imposition of fines because one does not meet the requirements imposed by different instructions and decisions. Finally, when it comes to this instruction, I will defend the Council of State a little bit. What he did was actually very sensible, because what we experienced before that instruction came, was a great discrimination among different directorates because an interpretation of the code was very different. I want to give a good example of how wrong this was, before the council put its foot down here: a big boat, 37 meters long, called "M/S Johan Berg", has not quotas in its group that were sold for several tens of millions of dollars, and then bought a three-four dormitory allowances in the 13 plus for very little money, and thus made a big redistribution. It was just that council of states put their foot down when he introduced that instruction. But when that's said, it's like this is also part of what the Fishlayer recommended, so they've listened to a good deal of their suggestions when they've made their own assessments and recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2190	Initially, I would like to stress that it is positive that the government has collected these issues in one big message, so that one can see a comprehensive processing of the call decisions in a context. Challenges with escaped salmon and the lice problem have heavy nutrition over time. Special lice have stopped the long thought extension of production volume, and several measures have been put in place to resolve the problem. Through the action plan, this government has stepped up the fight against escape and resistant lice, and this will also have a great deal to do in the future. The government will ensure that a revised lactus regulation is more conducive to reducing the risk of resistance development, which we all fear. Someone thinks that the physical labelling of farmed fish by fatfin cutting could help to identify a more easily escaped farmed salmon in salmon rivers, but physically marking 400,000 million farmed fish annually to extract some hundred more fish in the watercourse is not sensible in a diet-benefit perspective or animal welfare perspective, is the clear message from the Food Authority. I agree with that. So to traditional fishing and the fresh fish system. The natural seasonal swings mean that the need to distribute fresh fish over and above the year is important, and there is a need to extend this season. In this context, the Right Party and the Progress Party express a desire to address the possibilities for up to one year's live cod storage, in order to strengthen the peach system. We were confronted with this when we visited the industry in Brussels, and there were many who expressed the desire to extend this scheme. As you can see, the Right Party and the Progress Party – we also write it in our note – want up to one year to work out. So to this with instructions. On 12 January 2016, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries adopted an instruction on the requirements for reasonable ship-size consistency for the allocation of participant access. The Committee refers to the Committee's earlier opinion. 416 S for 2015–2016 did not fully adhere to the content of the instruction. The Committee expressed its opinion there: ‘The Committee believes that Norway’s Fisheries Teams are better placed to take account of smaller fishing vessels at the same time as a certain opening for movement between the different size groups within the coastal fleet. The Committee supports this view. [[...]] The Committee points out that the Storting will carry out a comprehensive examination of structural issues in the fishing fleet as part of the follow-up to the government's expert committee on how the quota system for the fishing fleet should be in the future. [[Eidesen Committee]] A number of the Committee of my fellow Members, although the Eidesen Committee has not yet dealt with the question, still argue that the Fishlayer's model is better than that, and suggests, on the basis of the following proposal: ‘The government asks the Fiskerlag to implement the model on the first occasion.’ But when's the first occasion? Is it like one said by the previous crossroads, that it's linked to the Eiden selection's evaluation and treatment here in the Storting, or is there any other thing? Among other SVs, there was a completely different signal now for a small blink of an eye. This only shows the importance of precautionary and long-term conditions. Fishing boat goes against the suggestion that the Fishlayer's model sketches, so here there are two heavy organizations that weigh each their way. However, choose one to listen to only one of the organisations, even if this has a very negative impact on those who have now seen actions based on the instructions they are giving today. It shows, as I said, how important it is with precautionary and long-term conditions. There are a few people who have made changes and bought allowances in line with the instructions as he is doing today, and it is my hope that one now has not seen these, who have made significant investments, in a hopeless situation. But I interpret the proposal to introduce it in such a way that it does not frame the unintentional and unfair ones who have based today's instructions. There are, as I said, several people who have driven significant investments and made changes, and we cannot simply ignore the actions they have seen taking place on the basis of today's instructions, as he now seems.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2227	First of all, I would like to thank the government and the state council, Sandberg, who has given us this general message where the business committee is allowed to discuss these important issues. Our fishing resources are great, and they are very important to our country. They've been throughout history, and they're still today. Both fisheries and aquaculture contribute to high value creation and important jobs. It is therefore important that we put in place a good way and provide good framework conditions for these industries, while at the same time having the necessary restrictions, so that we have stock control and how we affect the environment. This means that there are many dilemmas and considerations that need to be weighed up against each other, as we see in the various issues we have in this message. At the same time, it's important to be long-term and think holistically. That's why the Christian People's Party has also wanted to see some of the things we now have to deal with, in conjunction with the proposals of the Eidesen Committee, so that we don't make changes until we can see the whole. This applies to the movement of the quota year and to the nationality requirement for ownership of ships. Then there is one thing the previous co-representatives have raised, and it is a matter of a majority in the Committee once again stating that the government has to change the instructions on ship size to operational basis requirements. It was also the committee's majority – a joint committee – within last year. Int. 416 S for 2015–2016 states that the representative Grimstad also quoted: ‘The Committee believes that the Norwegian Fisheries Teams’ input better captures the attention of smaller fishing vessels while at the same time providing a certain opening for movement between the different size groups within the coastal fleet.’ The representative of Grimstad problemated that Norway's Fiskerlag is in favour and the fishing boat is against. But I certainly think the representative Grimstad remembers that we as committee members also knew last year when we dealt with this matter. But I'm going to give the representative Grimstad exactly how the decision we are now making is to be interpreted – that it has to be borne in mind that those who are in the process, those who have made changes, are not affected by the change that is now. I'm going to give the representative exactly that. We probably knew that there was a disagreement here, but then there was a joint committee that said something, and now there's a majority that says something. As far as aquaculture is concerned, it is good that the government has now put in place a strategy against the escape of farmed fish. However, the Christian People's Party believes that the government's approach to the plan should have limited financial consequences and that proposals that could, if appropriate, give rise to costs or disadvantages for the industry should be assessed later, are not entirely 'two the points'. We believe that this issue is too serious for us not to take good action that we know is useful, even if it costs something. Then I would also like to mention the action plan against resistance to anti-menopausal medicinal products. It's important that it is followed up now, so that we ensure that we have methods that work to get rid of the salmonnus. When we dealt with the aquaculture message, this was one of the most important things for the undersigned, both in terms of the problem of resistance and the escape of salmon, that we get control of it, because then we also have the opportunity to get a sustainable development of this important industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2248	Each year, the Board of Directors adopts various proposals for requests to the Government. Recently, there has been a significant increase in the number of requests in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. That's very good. That is why I am also very pleased that there are good feedback on this form, so that the various proposals and policies are actually brought up for debate in the UK. That's good to hear. So it is that time allows me not to go through all the issues, but I note that to a large extent the Committee agrees with the assessments made by the undersigned in relation to the follow-up to requests, etc. But then there's one thing left, and that's the so-called instruction. If you're going to call it noise or disagreement, I'm a little unsure, but initially this instruction is, after all, just about the Ministry's initiative to clarify administrative practices. Therefore, it is interesting that Stortingen places so much prestige in this case. I still believe – and the future will show it – that today’s instructions provide simplification, predictability and flexibility for the industry. In the examination of the notification of the marine food industry, an overall nutrition committee asked for the decoration of the freer design legislation. The representative of Grimstad has also referred to previous decisions, so this is not easy to deal with when looking at the different decisions. I would like to quote these various decisions, which have been taken by a joint committee, and by the majority of the committee, earlier – which are clearly no longer applicable. I note that the debate has been led on premises such as the transfer of quotas to quota barons, etc. Since this became known, I have received countless feedback and enquiries from many people, even young people. And I'd like to quote from one of these: "Short, my background is this. I'm 27 years old, I've been fishing all the time, ever since high school, and I've worked hard to create a living in the fishing industry. I have seven employees. I am in the middle of a process, where we have sold two older boats, and I am about to design a new, larger vessel. [[more than 21 metres]] As part of this, we have been based on the instructions that have been in force since 12 January last year, and among other things. in 2017 I bought the necessary participant access I have in 2017, together with the bank, spent almost $20 million on these investments, in good faith and according to. [[...]] the current instructions.’» Based on previous decisions in the Business Committee — collectively and by a majority — this has been prepared. All savings have been used by this 27-year-old boy. He's been working on a fishing boat, chess, since he was 16. He's not a quota baron at all. He has used everything he has under the decisions made earlier by the Business Committee, and according to changes in the instructions, and now one comes to say that this is no longer relevant. So you have to tear down a business base, a company with several employees, because there's been a performance in this case. No one has thought about the consequences of this. Now the industry also comes back on the track and says that this no longer has any practical significance. This would have been the case, as the Committee and some members of the Committee have said in previous consideration of this instruction, so yes – but no one has asked the Council of State to stop this instruction. State councils have been asked to assess the outcome of the instructions. And if it would have had dramatic consequences, I would have had to consider stopping it. There have not been dramatic changes. This is a vessel — not quota barons — where an attempt is made to provide a food supply with more than one employee. I will, of course, follow what the Storting decides, but I must at least ask to spend the necessary time so that no more will be hit unnecessarily by this decision. It necessarily means a hearing in which business organisations also get their input into what consequences this will actually have after one and a half years. It is therefore not possible to do this without delay or without delay, a serious assessment must be carried out through a hearing, in which everyone is allowed to make his observations, and it is clear what the immediate consequences of a stop to this instruction will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2270	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2275	Until now, the intention to operate in two production zones has been an instrument to drive further processing and interregional biomass extraction according to the requirements in place. How will the Council of State now, with its connection to two production areas without further processing requirements, secure further processing and coastal workplaces?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2280	The processing requirement is firm in relation to what has been said before, but my starting point has always been to provide flexibility for those who cannot use the inter-regional biomass take-off. So this is the case for small and medium-sized enterprises. And I thought, with all due respect, that the Storting was concerned that the small and medium-sized breeders would also have conditions that made it possible to divide into production areas. Now it is possible for the small ones to be flexible between an area on both sides, i.e. two, while those with processing requirements may be allowed to have flexibility in addition to two production areas. Of course, my call is, and we also see it, that small and medium-sized enterprises look at different forms of cooperation in order to provide and perhaps facilitate significantly more processing. At least we agree and care about everyone, that processing to a much greater extent at home, is something we're going to facilitate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2287	I'm busy going from word to action. The question was, how will the government ensure further processing? Then I have another question that goes on this with fire holes when one is connected to two production areas. Why have the Progress Party Councils gone beyond the perfectly clear proposal of the former Right-State Council, Mr Vik Aspaker, that all concessions should be linked only to one production area? This has also been supported by a Joint Committee. How shall a maintained production area function as a buffer or firegate now, when all are connected to two areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2294	Now I've answered this with the flexibility, which I think is extremely important in order for us to have a variety of companies that are involved in breeding. And I've said that we all agree that we should facilitate as much processing as possible at home. In the case of fire holes, or buffer zones, it may not be as simple as you initially imagine, for the EEA Agreement requires the free movement of goods and services. Live fish and wellboats are covered. Therefore, the general rule is that live fish without clinical signs of disease should be able to be transported and placed on the market freely – given that the known health status does not pose a threat to the health status of the destination. Similarly, the authorities cannot prohibit a well boat from performing missions in the West and North Norway. As long as it is allowed to move fish, and the actors take advantage of this possibility, one will also not be able to get effective fire holes and buffer zones, because the flexibility and the law say you can go outside these buffer zones anyway. However, the minimum requirements of the authorities do not preclude the operators themselves from doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2301	I understand that I do not want an answer to how the Council of State has actually intended to facilitate more further processing, so I am going over to another theme. I would like to talk a little about that one has gone from about 40 boats with foreign ownership to about 118 boats with foreign ownership now. This applies to boats less than 15 meters. In other words, it's over a double. What action will the Council of State take to clarify what this formidable increase is due to — over a double?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2306	Some fasitators are not aware of this, but you might imagine that when you enlarge the EU, as the Labour Party was involved, with many new countries, there will be more countries, and there will be more inhabitants, who have an opportunity to fish in Norway. This should perhaps have been considered as a consequence when the EU was uncritically allowed to expand in this way and even more EU citizens were given the opportunity to fish and others in Norway. I see someone claiming that I am unconcerned about this. No, I'm not. The problem is to fish in Norway, and when we have a nationality requirement, we have to live in Norway, and the control regime in that area, we should be absolutely strong – that we actually live in Norway and fish from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2313	I think there were several people who were a little surprised by the response of the Council of State to the decision of the majority that the Fishlayer's model should be implemented. The council said, as far as I understand, that this must be sent out on the phone. This is an instruction that was sent on the ring in its time. The various parties reacted and made their contributions to it. The opposition to the Storting was great. A consensual committee said that the Fishlayer's model was better. The Council of State continues with the current instructions. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs will consider the last time in 2003 how the government will understand the call for decisions. They shall be considered as instructions. Even in the direction of the government, it is stated that appeal decisions are to be implemented as soon as possible. Can the Council of State now explain exactly how he wants to proceed in this matter? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2320	The request was in this case that Stortinget asked me to assess, and every day I have evaluated the situation. So there's a party that was in this majority position, that thought I would follow this up and make changes if there were dramatic moves. So it's not going to be. It's almost like you can't see any change before and after the instruction. And with the proposal that is now on the table, there will be a tightening in relation to what was actually in place before the change of instruction on 12 January 2016. That is why I say that it is now necessary to carry out a consultation of possible transitional rules for those who, in good faith – according to different decisions in the Stortinget – have acted according to current practice. Now I pointed to one case, but there might be more. In this respect, it may be necessary for the Fisker Team to also address the challenges that exist and the consequences that may arise in the wake of changing the instructions now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2327	“Dramatic” is no one who has said in this room. What is stated in the decision – when we talk about change – is significant change. Governments are not the ones to consider significant changes. It is at any time that the Storting must assess its own decisions and whether the government will follow them up or not. In this case, the Storting believes that there were significant changes and put down the foot. The councils also do not have the competence or authority to over-test the Storting and send things to the audience when the Storting has said that the cabinet should be there. I would like to ask you one more time: on what constitutional basis can the Council of State, on the basis of an instruction from the Stortinge, send this on a hearing and water out the decision that the Stortinge has made? On what democratic basis can the Council of State do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2335	I repeat, on the basis of this, I believe it is necessary to carry out a hearing for those who are in the process. I note that representatives of the Committee also say that this should be taken into account. That has been said earlier today, and I take that as a support for having a process to see what consequences this can have for those who are involved in different processes and have prepared themselves on the basis of the instructions as they exist. I honestly believe that it should also be in the best interests of all politicians and political parties that the consequences be taken into account for all those involved in processes, who have had large investments and who have planned. Then you have to stop them. I think it will have some consequences that the representative from SV does not want either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2342	I would like to follow up on an answer from the Council of State to a question from representative Heggø about the fact that there are more and more foreign vessels involved in fishing. I believe that the Minister of Fisheries blamed the EU enlargement, and then my question about the government of Solberg is critical of the EU enlargement, and whether the Council of State and Government are also critical of a further enlargement of the EU, when looking at the impact it will have on fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2347	My answer was what I think could be the cause. And I'm saying there's no fasit. However, it is easy to imagine that if more people are allowed to fish in Norway through the accession of several countries to the EU, and thus have an EEA agreement, thereby avoiding the law of participants, it is natural for more people to enter. The increase came from 2009 until today, when it has doubled. But before that it's been very stable. It's gone up and down a lot, actually. It's been under 30, and it's been over 30. So that was my answer. It might be one of the reasons, but it's not a fasit. I have to look for why it has become a double from 2009 to 2013, i.e. during the red-green government period. I don't have the answer. There is no fasititude to it, but one of the reasons is that if more people have access to the cake, more people will also make use of the cake.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2354	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2359	I just want to link some comments to some parts of the proposal. Firstly, when it comes to the issue of a strategy against escape, I would like to stress that the Central Party believes that one has too low a level of ambition, that one is not willing to take sufficient action. It's a bad reason to claim, as some politicians and industry themselves often do, that it was worse before. The goal must be a null vision for escape and the means of action to make it a reality. Then I will also make some comments to the so-called instruction and what we have said about him: I also react in the way the Council of State puts it on this matter. I was surprised at the last time the Council of State chose to ignore the clear leadership of the Storting in the matter, and I note that the Council of State is also now ignoring the wording that he is to be implemented on the first occasion. It is as the Council of State itself said: this is administrative practice. It sets lower requirements for which democratic processes to run before such an instruction can be given. I feel that we have a fisheries minister who talks a lot, but who does not have the corresponding ability to listen to the clear instructions that the Stortinget provides. And it is not possible to make what is clearer than what the majority in the committee are doing in their proposal for a decision today. So I just want to remind you that Storting is not a consultative body. This is a clear proposal for a decision, and it must be expected that the government will follow suit. One should especially expect a government council from a minority government to follow up on such a clear note as soon as possible, and not find all reasonable ways to train this matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2372	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2377	This debate was re-examined after the intervention by the Council of State, where he said that the decision taken today by the Storting should not be followed. It shall not be implemented at the first opportunity. It shall be sent out on a ring first, and then a transitional arrangement shall be established, etc. No one here has an overview of what the government has in mind of what kind of process it intends to initiate, but everyone here knows what that decision is, at least those who are behind the decision. Of course, there shall be no retroactive force, for which the representative Grimstad is afraid – retroactive force for those who have already carried out a process in connection with the instructions put in place by the Council of State of Sandberg in its time. But that this instruction should now be changed – cf. The model from the Fiskerlage – on the first occasion, that is, as soon as possible, is the proposal for a decision today. That's Stortinget's opinion. Then there's no reason for the government to interpret or understand this in a completely different way, and not least there's no reason for the government to do anything entirely different than what the Storting decides. I would like to refer again to the Control and Constitutional Committee and the last time the Grand Duchy deals with the question of how to understand the ‘call-up decision’, i.e. decisions taken by a majority on the Grand Duchy: Call-up decision is to be understood as instructions to the Government, it is said by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. And in a self-director from the government on how to proceed in relation to the Storting, which can be used freely by the government.No, it says that the majority of decisions at Stortinget, i.e. appeal decisions, are to be carried out by the government as quickly as possible. So, there's no way you can wait to implement it. There is also no possibility to create processes around what is to water it. Here you should only follow the Storting decision. If it turns out that, contrary to the guidelines of practice laid down in the Storting, and contrary to all the decisions taken in the Storing, the Council of State does not comply with this, we are in a rather serious and quite different situation than the starting point for this case. I want the Council of State to come up and clarify its position on this, so that this becomes clear here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2386	I have to start by thanking the government and the fisheries minister for being offensive in the problem of escaped farmed salmon and the impact it may have on the wild. There are many of us who are concerned about that and whether the wild axis is at risk of genetic change. Indeed, studies indicate that the incorporation of genes from escaped farmed salmon can lead to lower productivity and reduced harvestable yields of wild salmon, and that the original populations can be lost under prolonged and severe influence. It's serious. With all due respect, this developed on the Red-Green Guards. That's why I'm glad this government has stepped up the fight against escape. Then I would like to stress that the Right will, of course, impose environmental requirements on the farming industry. But what we don't want is to let them buy out of the escape problem. We have to make demands that really provide protection for the wild. One million. kr in bot will not save neither Alta salmon nor other salmon strains. Fortunately, the industry itself is working towards the same goal as we politicians, namely a zero vision for escape. A lot of research is being done and studies are being carried out on how the farmed salmon takes off if, against assumption, it gets out of business. Last week there were three breeding companies in Alta who joined the Akvaplan-Niva and released 50 tracking-marked salmon, because they want to find out, among other things. how deep they walk, whether they swim together, and whether they follow the current. All the work now done by the authorities, the Minister of Fisheries and the industry themselves, makes me hope that we have now read about the last case of escaped farmed salmon.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2395	I must also say that I wonder a little about how this debate develops. First I'd like to say a few words about this with foreign owners. It has doubled in seven to eight years, up to 118 foreign owners who have a boat. Then the Council of State has explained in the context of the EU/EEA impact it may have, but we accept from 3,000 to 30,000 foreign citizens annually, for which these parties are cheering, and it is clear that with such a large number of foreign citizens there is not all well to become Norwegian citizens, but can nevertheless be fishermen, it has become a problem that they are now taking a traditional Norwegian way of life and income. I have to say that I'm just surprised that this is a problem, and those who create problems with it, it's precisely the parties that are most eager to say yes to being multicultural. But I agree with what the Council says. One should bow in Norway, and it has to be checked regularly. So for the instructions: here, a near-punching begins in a system where some have made investments and have taken care of the instructions as they follow the previous decisions of the committee, and after the Council of State has made its instructions effective. Then they've managed this and made investments, significant investments, we've got young people in the industry and we've been betting on it since they went out of the school, so now they're going to put them in place. The SV representative says that no, it is clear that those who have completed the process or are in the process should not be framed. So, how do you interpret a 'er in the process', or are they the ones that have done it? How should a person deal with this if a person is not willing to say that at least we need to spend reasonable time here, or that we let it go out and let them make their point of view, those like this debt – including the fisheries organisations? That would be the sensible way and the pragmatic and good solution to a matter that we're about to create a problem by now, which is not a problem. I have to say that I am expecting and waiting – I see that the left is also going to the pulpit and I am making an article now. The Christian People's Party was very clear. Right is very clear. The progress party is very clear. So it's a political plurality that this has to be viewed in a pragmatic way, and I hope and believe that also the Left – and so far also the other party – will look at this in a way that is likely for the industry and individuals in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2406	First, I would also like to thank the Council of State for the way he comes to Stortinget with these matters. Overall, there is a great deal of agreement on how this should be done, with the different issues in the big case. But I also want to say something about this with the instructions. First, I just want to stress that I have faith that the Council of State Sandberg is doing this in a good way and the way that will be required. Those who make their investment-related assessments and make their investments based on today’s instructions cannot be affected. So here it's obvious that we need to be liberal in the transition to the new system, it's now being said clearly and clearly how the Council of States should proceed. During this period, we need to ensure that there are mechanisms that ensure legal certainty for individuals at least. Then I would also like to add that I am confident that the advice from the Norwegian Fisheries Team is well thought out, and will also point out – since it has been mentioned here that there are several organisations that have given various signals – that the Fisheries Team is the only organisation that embraces the entire spectrum of fishing boat sizes or fleet groups. So it's not quite unnatural to put a little extra emphasis on what comes from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2413	It was a little strange to listen when the Progress Party at Oskar J. Grimstad indicates that long-term care and foresight are important. I'm totally in agreement with it, but at the same time, a state council always has hardly any number of them. How many times have we not heard the Council of State say: I had several times when the cases were put forward. The duties were laid out – then it was used – or royal cancer, to name two. Adjustment of instructions – clear running rules have been put in place, and that is good. It's a good thing. I don't like it when you introduce the instructions, which nobody has picked up here today. The absolute shot that was 11 meters down, that was good. But then to what was not quite so good: I would like to remind you that fishing boat is actually a sub-organization in the Norwegian fishing team. Here it is referred to as if there are two different organisations – it is not. So once again, the minister has actually had time to change the instructions in line with what was said, even if we used the word evaluate. So it's said two things here: 1: There are only three vessels – no drama. 2: There are serious consequences to the plurality coming here today. When the Council of State says on top of everything that he has considered changing the instructions every day and whether it is dramatic, and then says that there are only three boats that it owes, yes, it says in itself something about time use and lack of action. Then I find that the Council of State can or will do well for the reason that there has actually been a doubling of the number of foreign boat owners. It's also shown that you don't want to look at what we've been asking for in the past, i.e. an adjustment down to 11 meters from 15 meters. It is appropriate to ask how the Council of State looks at committee comments and plural comments. I want to clarify what the representative Pollestad said: The Storting is not a government advisory body. The Government shall comply with the decision of the Grand Duchy and, of course, with legal certainty, just as Mr Farstad did well here. Finally, I would like to link something to the enlargement of the EU that was given as an alternative or a proposal for a response to my reply. There are mostly Icelanders who own the boats, and as far as I know, they are not EU members once, and at least have nothing to do with EU enlargement. The Icelanders, for example: is in Mehamn, is quite OK; they live there. But what is done with the mailbox companies that are there? It's the ones we want to live, not the ones that actually live there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2427	First, I have to answer the question from the replicating screw – I think I have also answered that earlier – in terms of flexibility in the field of aquaculture. The fact that the Workers' Party does not want flexibility for the small breeders is surprising in itself. But the only reason I've made this assessment is to create flexibility for the small ones, too, when you divide into production areas, so that you don't get locked in. So now those who are involved in processing are given flexibility in three production areas. So it'll always be an advantage with flexibility for those who are required to process. I am very pleased that both the Christian People's Party and the Left, at least, are among the parties that understand that you need some processes here to ensure a reversal of the instructions. The fact that the Workers’ Party and the SV have not wanted to take account of these small actors who want to build up and provide jobs – and not least financial security and secure jobs – is also surprising. For what is a process? What is a process? That is why I ask for it, it will now be necessary to get input from industry organisations – including the Fisker Team – on what types of cases may be relevant or out of date for transitional rules, and what transitional rules may be. Examples of this could be actors who have already signed a new vessel contract — heavy investments — or those who have invested or made other efforts to purchase a new vessel, or those who have spent time and resources on internal considerations and structural changes, with different plans, not only in the context of the instructions, but also in the context of unanimity in the nutrition committee and majority decisions that have said that flexibility and greater freedom to design is needed. That's said, and the actors out there have taken it in. I do not say that the fishing boat has a claim – I have not said that. However, fishing vessels say that companies that have already split allowances and replaced vessels according to the instructions will clearly be protected against any tightening – and this is a significant tightening. But it is not a contraction that will have any practical significance in the future, because there are no major changes now with this instruction than it was before the instruction, only that then there was dispensation and different judgement from case to case. There were as many cases before it is now. But I'm glad that the Christian People's Party and the Left agree that there are processes to ensure legal certainty and that at least those who have prepared for this instruction are guaranteed as they exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2440	I refer you to the government's manual on how to follow a call decision: ‘4.6.1 Follow-up of request decisions. Request decisions must be followed up as soon as possible. Usually, decisions will give the government a certain freedom to assess for themselves how best to follow up. If it is unclear how the decision is to be understood, the Ministry should explain, in the course of the follow-up to the decision, how it has understood the decision.’;» It is quite obvious here – and no one has demanded that this be done without a certain degree of discretion, it is not – that the decision is as it is written, and that it is an instruction from the Stortinget. The Minister is very often honouring the Stortinget – it is on the Stortinget democracy is, it is the Stortinget who is to govern the policy. That's absolutely right. There should be no doubt about it. Since there is no basis for the government's model, the government's instruction – there is no basis on the Stortinge which supports him – and now a decision is made to implement the Fishlayer's model, which is a great uprising around the Storinge, the government's only task is to find out how to follow it up as soon as possible. Of course, then, a person must take some care of himself. But it's going to happen as soon as possible. There should be no possibility here for the minister to run a long process and hearing processes – undermining a decision from Stortinget. So here, perhaps not surprisingly, the Minister for Fisheries is going on a very thin edge between what he has a democratic basis for doing and what he does not have a democratic basis for doing. With that, I think we can end this debate, and then we follow what happens the next few days, because that's the time horizon we stick to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2454	The representative, Ingrid Heggo, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2459	If the council had listened after I – and the Labour Party – kept my post, he would have listened that I had just pointed out that of course legal certainty should be taken care of. It should actually have made it possible. Furthermore, a change does not have retroactive effect. I also showed the representative to Farstad when it comes to this particular point, so now I hope that the Council of State has also managed to find out where the Labour Party is. This is not at all contrary to what I said about a government having to follow up decisions taken in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2466	The representative Oskar J. Grimstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2471	I am amazed at the representative Heggø, who is going to speak here – and I heard very well what the representative Heggø said. This is what a state council will do, which will search for a barely possible multiple of them. It is now time for this government to have a relatively few pluralities if one gets with it. And I thought that was the democracy that we're all fenced about -- a multiple is a multiple, whether it's scarce, or whether it's big. So to owe a government council to search for a scarcely possible multiple is a strange claim. Then I finally record that it is bad for SV to have to crawl to the cross when a reasonable number of people here in the hall today describe the situation so that this must be handled in a way that is appropriate, that is sensible, that thinks the industry, that thinks individuals within the industry, and that it is not a political matter that is created by SV, and that should not – and fortunately not – get such an end as SV wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2478	I think I said in my previous post that of course I should sign and the government follow up the decisions made by the Storting. And then I have some additional concerns about this, because the rapporteur said this should be carried out as soon as possible. Then I thought, "What is the fastest possible?" So, lucky for you, there are more people who agree that this might not be done as quickly as possible. There are different considerations to take, considering the many who have made preparations. And the proposal for a decision here now is 'on the first occasion'. And then I can say, yes, on the first occasion I'm going to implement the decision of the Storting. But whether it's next Sunday, or whether it's next Sunday again, is a little hard to say now, because I have to have some assessments of the consequences. I have received support in Stortinget, and I am very pleased with that. I will follow up the decision – of course I will. Then I have to be allowed to comment on it by a small majority. Yes, now the situation is the one that the representative Grimstad also reiterated, that there are many scarce majority. This has always been the case in the Norwegian metropolitan area. But it's clear that there's less chance of getting a wider deal and getting a larger majority behind their proposals when the largest opposition party, which was a serious party in the past, is completely shut down and will not help to get a majority. But that is also democracy. I've been sitting in the Storting in opposition for 18 years, so I know exactly how it works, and it's right that that's how it's done by all parties. But being, like, suspicious because I don't want to follow the decision of the Storting, I will – with all due respect – have asked myself, because the respect I have for this house is not just essential; it's difficult. Then we disagree on the solutions, and I can allow myself here to say that I still disagree with the fact that this instruction, as it now exists, is to the detriment. It is in the best interests of industrial development, in order to provide good, secure jobs that are profitable, while the old instruction and what is now taking place in terms of tightening up will actually lead to the opposite. There we disagree. The future will show.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2485	Then I can declare that I will cancel my visit to the church on Sunday and Sunday thereafter, pending a decision in the matter. The starting point in this case is not the government's authority to adapt a transition to a new system so that it does not have adverse consequences for those who are already just at the end of some kind of process – it has the government initially authority to do. But when one implements decisions in such a way that it takes so long that one in practice has undermined the plurality of the Storing, with which the government disagrees: then one has a step across a limit, then one does not stick to the Storing and the democratic basis one has to be in government. That's what's the jumping point. And there's the impression that several of us got after the first post from the Council of State, that there's been such a high performance in this case that it wasn't about following up the decisions that the Storting had ordered the government to implement. Everyone understands that then is the whole foundation of Norwegian democracy away, if the government just walks forward as a single government council wants. Then we're on the wild road. But if we just talk here about a couple of Sundays and a normal authority to do this in a gentle way, then I think it's inside. It goes beyond this, as I think we have a very serious situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2496	I'm recording that when the Council of State gets pressed, the word gets bigger. For this matter, in my view, it is not very complicated. It's like what's important has to happen quickly. The new model is implemented for new cases, and therefore it needs to be put in place quickly. I believe that the Council of State must be able to take the time needed to see how to deal with those who have adjusted according to the current instructions. However, the instructions should be amended and, for the sake of pre-calculation, as soon as possible. I want to stress that I, and the Center Party, are completely united in what both the Left and the Christian People's Party have said about this, and perceive that their vision is also related to those who have aligned themselves according to current instructions. What's a little special about this case is that we have a proposal that the majority have said that a fear that this could have negative long-term consequences. That is the background to the proposal. So it is that all parties, except the Right Party and the Progress Party, support the proposal. Then I find it very special that the Council of State, from the pulpit, sank some kind of imagined verbal support from the Right and the Advance Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, for a proposal and understanding of a proposal that neither the Right nor the Progress Party are on. Since this matter is so important that the Right Party and the Advance Party vote against, they must differ, and the two parties must not define how this text is to be understood. So my advice to the government council will be: make sure that this is done quickly for new cases. Make sure that those who have adjusted according to the instructions have flexible transition arrangements. Because that's exactly what the plurality emphasizes: one fears the long-term consequences, and one wants to see this gathering when dealing with the Eiden selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2509	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2529	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Party proposal No 2, by Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make proposals under the Petroleum Act that oil exploration in the form of seismics, shallow drilling, etc. not allowed in areas not open to petroleum activity.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2553	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish seismic-free areas on a Norwegian plaice in areas of particular value for fisheries in the context of the revision of the management plans for Norwegian sea areas.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2584	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 3 and 4, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Party proposal No 6, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Centre Party, the Left, Socialist Left Party and the Green Party proposal No 5, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party proposal No 7, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party proposal No 8, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left Party and the Green Party proposal No 10, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to investigate and come back to the Grand Duchy with proposals that can be incorporated into the TEK, which will require builders and major rehabilitation projects to use materials and techniques that will facilitate the subsequent recycling and reuse of building materials to a greater extent.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2622	The proposal by the Socialist Left and the Greens were not accepted by 94 votes to 4. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.52.12]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2627	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government in the context of the 2018 State Budget and the statement on how to achieve the 10Twh target for energy efficiency improvement, elucidated and regulatory energy management in the operation of larger buildings.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2642	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a support scheme for the introduction of energy management in professional buildings, where the aid depends on the demonstration of reduced energy use.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2657	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a reward scheme for energy efficiency improvement in municipal and county buildings in accordance with the reward scheme for public transport.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2668	The proposal by the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party did not agree with 88 to 10 votes. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.53.01]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2673	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Centre Party, the Left Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a pilot project with the support of craftsmen offering energy efficiency measures, with the aim of launching the energy efficiency improvement market among housing owners to repair and clean up their housing’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2689	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government to propose in 2018 a proposal to amend the current rightful social security scheme for households to include measures by housing companies on behalf of households.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2704	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to propose for 2018 a tax deduction on the current rights-based social security scheme for households’ energy measures.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size of the government’s proposals for the 2018 state budget calls for proposals on how to implement the EU’s Energy Efficiency Directive in Norway, including how implementation will contribute to achieving the target of 10 TWh reduction in energy consumption in construction in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2726	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make appropriate proposals for a Norwegian regulatory framework for regular energy monitoring in larger businesses, in view of the need to trigger cost-effective energy efficiency measures.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide an investigation into how the public as a tenant may require at least energy class A in all new leases.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2778	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Torhild Aarbergsbotten on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party proposal No 2, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Party the proposals No 3 and 4, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens the proposals No 5-7, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 5-2007, by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the charging aid for electric cars to include ‘common garages’ in general, without being confined to residential buildings, so that charging aid can also ensure the rapid expansion of loading in car parks and workplaces.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the aid intensity for Enova aid for the development of electric car charging is increased to at least 70 pst. the investment for the purpose of facilitating the charging of electric cars at more than 70 pst. of the parking space(s) in a parking garage(s).’» The President drew attention to the fact that in proposal No. 7 is a typographical error, and the correct number is going to be 100,000 kilowatts. The proposal – with the correction made – is as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a support scheme for electric cars that complements Enova’s support so that applications under 100 000 KWh can also be granted’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2820	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to set up an advisory service funded by Enova, where residential buildings can receive advice related to the installation of charging points in public garages, etc. The advisory service may be provided in cooperation with the municipalities.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to instruct Enova to establish a triggering aid scheme in which residential buildings can apply for support for the necessary infrastructure investments to offer residents to set up charging points. The charging point itself is charged by the individual user or housing law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2842	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government to step up the requirement for parking garages to facilitate charging from today’s 6 pst.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2857	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to address various problems and barriers to the establishment of a charging point for electric vehicles in housing and co-operatives.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2892	It's going to be voted on first over I and III. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2904	It is then added over II. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2932	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget to amend the Port Act to promote shore-side electricity solutions in Norwegian ports.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e2958	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to focus on the objective of several full-year jobs in Innovation Norway’s marketing work.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e3000	It's only said I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e3010	It is then added over III and IV. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e3039	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Else-May Botten on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Else-May Botten on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party the proposals No 3 to 7 and points 9, from Pål Farstad on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party the proposals No 10 and 11, from Pål Farstad on behalf of the Left proposal No 12, from Torgair Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a State mineral company to help take environmental and community considerations into account in the re-extraction of minerals.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e3072	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Ten and eleven from the left. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a national strategy for geological mineral resources.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to reduce the amount of waste from mines and to ensure that only professionally satisfactory land-based landfill solutions are accepted.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e3096	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 to 7 and points 9, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more attention to be paid to the recycling and reuse of minerals, including through increased R & D and by the mapping and use of minerals from landfills.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to prohibit maritime landfills in mining operations.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a regulatory framework to ensure that mineral extraction takes place in a sustainable manner.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government requests the imposition of a local resource charge to compensate municipalities suffering from mining disadvantages and the imposition of a mining waste levy.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking mining companies to set aside the necessary funds to clean up an environmental fund.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to restore mass in closed mines and to make strict demands for purification or for protection against run-off for masses that are still deposited as land deposits.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e3141	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to provide a notification of a new power cap for the mineral industry addressing the following elements: An evaluation of the Mineral Law Plan to complete the monitoring of mineral deposits, at least in line with the objective of the mineral strategy of 75 pst. by the country shall be identified with advanced equipment; Concrete measures to strengthen the predictability of the proceedings and to reduce the length of proceedings Strengthening the administration to meet environmental requirements, Sámi rights and guidance for municipalities. R & D reduction measures Strategy for increased use and processing of minerals in Norway A review of the current situation and promotion of the necessary measures to strengthen recruitment and training for the industry. Develop a strategy for more stringent international environmental requirements for the extraction of mineral resources’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e3181	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to implement a 21-process for a coordinated R & D strategy between authorities, industry and research.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e3229	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests that the farming industry be required to label all farmed fish by fat cutting.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals to impose more stringent penalties and penalties for infringements of the Aquaculture Act.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e3262	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to strengthen the system of fresh fish in order to contribute to increased predictability through the fishing seasons and several fresh deliveries on land.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e3289	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-30.ana.ud295e3328	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
