ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e28	A number of permit applications are available: by the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative, Mr Inbjørg Amanda Vogskesen, on 29 and 30 May to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Praha, and from 31 May to 2 June to take part as an observer of the European Council parliamentary assembly before the elections in Albania; on the leave of the representative Sverre Myrli on 29 and 30 May to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Tbilisi, Georgia on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the leave of the representative Svein Roald Hansen on 29 and 30 May to take part in the COSAC meeting in Malta by Mr Freddy de Ruiter on welfare leave on 29 and 30 May; from the Workers' Group on the welfare leave of the representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen on Monday 29 May and on days 1 and 2 June Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Aust-Agder County, Lene Langemyr, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in the Stortinget on 30 to 31 May under the leave of the representative Inbjørg Amanda Godskesen, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For East Agder County: Line Kisses Vennesland, Lene Langemyr and Odd Gunnar Tveit For Akershus County: Are Health For Northern Ireland: Tone-Helen Toften For Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e118	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Siv Jensen, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and Frank Bakke-Jensen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Tore Hagebakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e127	In four years, the Progress Party has been pushing to cut the taxes by 25 billion. NOK and to increase the fees by 4 billion. kr. The tax havens are distributed so that the richest people in the country get 160 times more in tax cuts than the average for the 94 pst. with the lowest wealth, i.e. one tenth a day for most people – money quickly consumed by increased kindergarten prices, increased electricity and increased fuel charges, and the air passenger fee, which the Progress Party introduced and then ensured that the proposal of its cooperation parties increased. This is mildly alarming, when you look back at the beautiful election vows from the Siv Jensen party. In government, the Progress Party has provided millions of dollars in tax cuts to the richest people in the country, while the majority of people have been fed with mole – despite the fact that oil money has not been controlled during the period. In reply from Minister of Finance Siv Jensen to Stortinget, it is clear that party leader Siv Jensen is going to choose to cut the taxes and charges by 50 billion. kr in the next period. On the question of how the tax cuts are distributed, Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen answers that the country's wealthiest will receive almost $2.1 million. kr each on average in tax cuts if the Party may decide for the next four years. What about those 94 psts? in the country with less than 5 million. kr in wealth? Well, they're going to get 340 dollars each in tax cuts on average according to Siv Jensen's calculations. My question to the Minister of Finance is therefore: Why does the Progress Party believe that the richest should get 6,125 times more tax cuts than most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e134	It was a little difficult to understand the question from the representative Hagebakken. I am not quite sure if he asked about what is in the Progress Party's programme for the next four years or whether he was concerned about what this government has accomplished in this four-year period. It is a fact that this government has reduced taxes by over 21 billion. kr. Most of the tax reductions have benefited ordinary families. A normal family with ordinary income has received more than NOK 8 000 in tax reliefs under this government. In addition, the government has found room to do something about the very unfair property tax. So there's a special tax on Norwegian ownership. At a time when the Workers' Party is very concerned about appearing to be engaged in preserving Norwegian enterprises in Norwegian hands, it is quite noticeable that the Workers' Party has such a powerful resistance to a property tax that separately affects Norwegian-owned enterprises and creates a great difference between being Norwegian and owning Norwegian companies and being foreign and owning a business in Norway. There's a difference this government is against. We want to strengthen the framework conditions for setting up businesses in Norway. We believe it is an advantage for Norway that the Nordics can also own these businesses. This is about reducing the competitive disadvantages of taxes on wealth. But most of the government's action space on tax cuts has not been able to reduce the wealth tax. There has been a reduction in taxes and charges for ordinary businesses and for ordinary people. So the truth is, as I said instead, an average family has got $8,000 in relief. The pensioners have come out of this well, with considerable relief. In other words, the large amount of money that has been spent on tax relief has gone to ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e141	The fact that the Progress Party in government has become as the Right Party, a party for the richest elite, is obvious to all who have followed Norwegian politics in the last four years. The government makes sure that their rich sponsors have got tax cuts in buckets and buckets, while most people haven't noticed anything in particular. Someone who will definitely notice it if the Progress Party decides the next period is the billionaires. In 2012, the E24 provided an overview of how much billionaires in the country would shrink their tax if the tax regime of the Progress Party now went to elections was implemented. Let me exemplify a billionaire with a fortune of 11 billion. kr would have its tax reduced by over 97 pst. A billionaire with a fortune of 7.9 billion. kr would have cut its tax by 99,5 pst. Why does the Minister of Finance want so much to make the country's richest people almost zero taxpayers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e146	There is a lot of false touching concern here from the representative Hagebakken of the Workers' Party. If he had been so concerned with average taxpayers in Norway, he would not have made his own choice to increase taxes by 15 billion. kr. That is the great difference between the Labour Party's election vow and the electoral vow of the Advance Party. We go to the elections to continue working on reducing taxes and charges for ordinary people, the Workers' Party is going to choose to increase taxes and charges for ordinary people. It's an honest thing to want that, but I disagree. I also believe that we need to manage to reduce the tax burden on our companies, and especially on those in Norwegian hands. I do not understand why the Labour Party believes it is right to discriminate between Norwegian owners of Norwegian companies and non-resident owners of Norwegian companies. Making it easier for foreign capital to invest in Norwegian companies and more difficult for Norwegian capital to invest in Norwegian companies, I think, is wrong. I believe that we should facilitate Norwegian ownership of Norwegian companies, and that is why it means something about how we set up the tax system, both in terms of property taxes and in terms of corporate taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e155	There will be follow-up questions – first Truls Wickholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e160	The Council of State seems to think that this question right here is a line exchange, but I'm trying to ask myself a question. Among the promises of the Progress Party for the next period, we find that they will cut the income of the country's municipalities by 22 billion. kr. Of course, some have to pay this bill when the Progress Party is going to give billions of dollars in tax cuts to the richest of the country. You could ask yourself, what does a loss of income actually mean for 22 billion? kr for Norwegian municipalities? Asking the SSB, the municipalities of the country spend half of the money on school, care for the elderly and health care. If you take kindergarten and babysitting, you're up to 70 pst. What I'm asking is who is going to pay this bill when the Progress Party is going to give billions in tax cuts to the richest people in the country. Are older people to be deprived of proper care? Is it school youth who has to sit on worn desks? Is it school buildings that will lack refurbishment? Or is it people who need to be deprived of the local health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e167	I guess the question is about the program formulation of the Progress Party to remove property taxes in the next period. It is also an area where there is disagreement between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. After all, the Labour Party has shown its true face during this period, where it has introduced and raised the property tax in a large number of municipalities. Then you can ask yourself who is going to pay the bill. In this case, residents of the municipality receive the bill from the Workers' Party. There are people who say they have to take their children out of kindergarten in order to afford to pay the property tax that the Workers' Party imposes on them, even against the promises they actually made in the municipal election campaign. What we have done in this period is both to reduce the total tax and tax burden on ordinary people and to strengthen the local economy. We have done so because we know that municipalities have a significant responsibility for welfare production around the country. It's about kindergarten, it's about school, it's about care for the elderly – it's about important welfare schemes. And the truth is, the municipal economy in this country is going well. The municipalities are going with solid profits. Fewer municipalities are still on the ROBEK list. This suggests that the local economy is good, and it indicates that there is room to make changes in property taxes as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e174	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e179	I listened very carefully when the representative Tore Hagebakken spoke about sponsors. Let me say it like this: there are some games here that need some sponsors. The perspective message is a very interesting message. We have had it in consultation with the Financial Committee, and many feel that it is optimistic in many ways. The Communication states that it is difficult to envisage large tax cuts and new welfare reforms at the same time. The Finance Minister's party has announced that they will go in for 50 billion. DKK in tax relief for the next period. My question is whether the Minister of Finance believes that the Board of Directors' tax incentives are compatible with what she herself has presented in the perspective communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e187	I agree with the representative, Mr Syversen, that the message of perspective is a good and readable document. It tells us something about the amazing starting point that Norway has. We are in a situation where, from a long-term perspective, we discuss how we can continue to improve welfare in Norway, when other countries need to look for opportunities to cut welfare schemes because they have a significantly tighter economy than we have. So the perspective for the Norwegian economy is that we can strengthen well-being at the same time as we can make it easier for more people to get into work. The government's recommendation is clear: the worst medicine to meet the challenges of the future is to increase taxes. This government has shown its way in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left in reducing the overall tax burden during this period. I believe that this work must continue even in the next period, simply because we are going to have competitiveness for our businesses. It's about letting ordinary people keep more of their own income.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e194	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e199	The party of progress was founded as Anders Langes Parti for a strong reduction of taxes, taxes and public intervention. After four years with the Progress Party in government, we have a net fee increase of 4 billion. kr. Fees have no social or distributive profile. In addition, there is a sharp increase in tolls paid by most people, regardless of income. The government has introduced tolls into the air, the government has had a historic increase in fuel taxes, and the government has weakened the commuter deduction. After four years in government, the Progress Party stands out as a ‘Siv Jensen’s Party to reduce taxes for the richest, increased taxes for people most and more state bureaucrats’. So my question is, will Siv Jensen guarantee that if she is Minister of Finance after the election, the fees imposed during this period will be removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e206	It is quite right that this government has focused on reducing tax and tax burdens, and we will continue to do so – simply because it is about strengthening competitiveness, and it is about allowing ordinary people to retain more of their own income. Then I notice that the Center Party is constantly bringing out the toll question when they challenge the Advance Party. But the truth is that the Center Party itself is one of the most avid champions of more tolls around the country – they vote for every toll proposition. That's why it's kind of hollow to me when the Center Party in rhetoric tries to appear as if they're against tolls, but votes for any project that's about it. The truth is, during this four-year period, the total number of drivers has come out significantly better than they did in eight red-green years. We have netly facilitated the car charges both for those living in the districts and for those living in the cities. It is a recognition that the car is an important means of entry, especially in the districts, where there are no collective alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e213	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e218	A year ago, the finance minister in Stortinget said that differences in Norway do not increase. There was a claim she had to withdraw afterwards, in a embarrassing letter to the Stortinget. That is why I was quite surprised when, before Easter this year, the Minister of Finance again in this Chamber claimed – twice – that the differences in Norway do not increase. It's a blow in the face of the poor caregivers who have lost thousands of dollars under this government. It's a blow to the pensioners who've had to tighten the lifeline for the third consecutive year, because of the poor social security arrangements of the Progress Party. And it's a blow in the face of all the people who experience their income less than before stretching to. Why does the Minister of Finance still insist that differences in Norway do not increase when the government's own figures show that they have done so for three consecutive years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e225	In every Question Time, SV tries to create the impression that this government is not concerned with keeping the differences in Norway small. I disagree. On the contrary, there is a broad political consensus in Norway that we should take care of the fact that the differences in Norway are small. There's one important reason why you've seen a change in the so-called Gini coefficient, and it's all about, among other things. that we have implemented a tax reform that has contributed to adaptations that have led many to benefit more. It's not that the differences between people are increasing. It was tax adaptation to the tax reform. The differences in Norway are small, and the reason why they are small is that we have a variety of tax-funded welfare schemes that there is a broad political consensus that we should take care of. That's why there's less difference between people -- the fact that it's not the wallet that determines whether one has the possibility of kindergarten, the possibility of school or the ability to move on in life. These are the arrangements we have to take care of. In contrast to the previous, the government has put forward a strategy against child poverty. That's something I remember SV was going to remove with a pen stroke, but never managed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e234	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e239	Teachers are the school's most important resource. To create a good school for all, we probably need teachers and highly qualified teachers, with both professional and pedagogical competence. But today, thousands of students in the Norwegian school are being taught by unskilled students. The use of unskilled workers in school has not been so high in 15 years. That gives cause for concern. According to the Ministry of Knowledge’s own figures, Norway will need 35,400 new teachers over the next 10 years to replace retired teachers and to replace unskilled workers. The Minister of Knowledge has stated offensively that he wants to make the teaching profession more attractive, but the outcome of government policy seems to be the opposite. The application for primary school teacher training has declined from last year to this year, and while fewer will become teachers, there are several of them who want to become teachers who do not have the opportunity to do so. The requirement for grade 4 or better in mathematics from high school in order to be able to train as a teacher has led many people not to enter the study, even though many of them have good diplomas. Last year we missed at least 367 future teachers – candidates who tried to improve their math character, without success. These were probably not candidates who had a plan to become math teachers, but who might have a dream of becoming Norwegian teachers, history teachers and social teachers, as the Norwegian school really needs. At the same time, several hundred study places were empty of teacher training in Norway. My question is whether the Minister of Knowledge is satisfied with his own strategy to make the teaching profession more attractive, and whether he believes that the government's policy is sensible, when the goal is to provide enough qualified teachers in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e248	I'm not satisfied with the results. At that time, there would have been no reason to turn to elections again – and hope that the government and this majority would be re-elected. I believe we have an offensive strategy – just look at what we're doing: together with the Christian People's Party, we've granted 1.3 billion. kr to several teaching positions for the very young children, which means that even though there have been several students, the group sizes, as we measure them, have fallen to between 1 and 4. class. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we are now introducing a new recruitment scholarship in practice, which means that if you get full pot – both become a teacher, complete in normal time, become a teacher in 1–7. class and at the top of it takes a job in North Norway – you can get a write-off for 160,000 kroner of your study loan. It's massive. So I know that the Christian People's Party is not for the character of teacher training, but I just want to remind you of two things: Firstly, it is true that there was a decrease, but it has not been a very large decrease or a very large number of empty spaces compared to the situation in the last five–six–seven years. The second is that if you look at what we have to do most with the recruitment, namely teachers of 1–7. Steps, one sees that there is mathematics mandatory. All these teachers are going to school, mathematics is mandatory in their teacher's education, and they're going to teach mathematics, at least in theory. The government believes – and has the support of the majority in the United Kingdom – that both the demand for deeper education in the subject and the need for a 4 to enter the teacher’s study are also important for this reason. I believe that you could, of course, recruit more teachers in the long term by lowering the requirements to get in. I don't believe it as a strategy. I rather believe that we need to find out that the teaching profession is challenging, important – Norway’s most important job. It's exciting, it takes a lot of one. The fact that it's a little hard to get in is a signal about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e261	Now it's not just teachers in the lowest classes you're struggling with, it's also the recruitment of high school teachers, who aren't necessarily going to teach mathematics, but are going to teach other subjects, such as Norwegian, history, and social sciences. I think it is very bad when you set a character requirement related to one specific character that will not be relevant to that teacher's professional performance. I have previously asked the Council of State whether he believes that some of those who are now being rejected from the teacher's study could become good teachers. That's what the state council said he thought. So it's a confession that we're now missing out on potentially good teachers with the policy of government. So, of course, there are many people who don't get into other studies either, in medicine, in journalism, for example, but there aren't hundreds of places of study available. The result is now an even greater need for unskilled students in school in the future, and my question is, is it better that we have unskilled teachers in school than we have Norwegian teachers who are trained teachers, but who may be struggling with mathematics?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e273	The answer to the direct question is no, but I believe that it is not the situation either, and that is why we are doing more now to recruit more people into the teaching profession. I want to turn around a little bit about the problem. Because before we tightened the requirement in mathematics, there was already a requirement there. You would have 3 in Norwegian, English and mathematics, and 3.5 on average. Then we have to be so honest to admit that there are certainly people who had e.g. 2 in mathematics, which had not intended to teach in it, but become a teacher at high school, and which we thus missed. Of course, as a politician, you can't say that it can't happen. The question we have to ask ourselves is – overall: How are we going to raise the prestige of the teacher’s study and teaching profession? Then I believe in what we do with financial encouragement, depreciation of student loans, but I also believe that if we are to get the best in Norway to want to become teachers – the most important profession in Norway – we must show that this is a demanding, challenging and difficult study, but also incredibly rewarding.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e282	There will be follow-up questions – first Marie Liones Breek.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e287	In order to ensure enough qualified teachers in the future, it is important not only to recruit enough students for teacher training, but also to hold the teachers we have. Today it is approx. 40,000 trained teachers working outside the school. In the ‘Reserve strength’ report of teachers, it was found, among other things, that: Note that overall stress needs to be reduced and that classes need to be reduced so that teachers can have more time for each student. It looks like we're in an evil circle. More students per teacher result in more teachers leaving. Does the Council of State think that a commitment to increasing teacher density can help close the leakage of teachers who want to leave school, and perhaps get more teachers back to the catheter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e294	First of all, it's not based on the numbers that we have, that there are fewer teachers and more students in school. If you look at the group size in Norwegian school, it's stable. For 1st to 4th. It actually goes down, even though it's become more students, and it's probably a lot thanks not least to the efforts of the Christian People's Party to get the government parties to give 1.3 billion. kr for several teaching positions earmarked for 1–4. steps. Then we've also done a lot to eliminate unnecessary reporting in school, for example. we removed a claim to prove that the in-flight assessment had been given. It keeps giving in-flight assessment, you don't have to document it too. We have simplified other reporting procedures. In fact, unlike previous governments, we have removed a compulsory test in high school – also to reduce the workload for teachers. I think the most important thing to get more teachers to stay in the profession is that we have a better guidance system for newly-trained teachers, and that is what we are now developing with the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e303	Martin Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e308	We know that the teaching shortage will increase, especially in North Norway. At the same time, too few are applying for teacher training. In North Norway we know there are too many empty trusts in the classrooms, there are too many empty desks in teacher training. We've known this for a long time, it's nothing new, the danger signals have been there for a long time – for years. That is why I have to say that the Minister of Knowledge has been legally waiting a long time to come with new measures, such as: the cancellation of study loans. This type of instrument has been proposed by the Labour Party for a long time, but it is only in spring that the government has proposed new measures such as the cancellation of student loans, and until a few days before the deadline for applying for teacher training expired. My question is really why the Minister of Knowledge was convinced that this was necessary only now at the last turn before the elections, when he has been given the warnings for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e313	The challenge of recruiting enough teachers in North Norway is not four years old, it is not twelve years old, it is 20 years old – probably even more than that. We are now doing a lot, we are working with the municipalities in the north, who are very aware of the problem and are concerned about – together with universities and colleges – increasing recruitment. So it's quite true, as the representative says, that perhaps the most powerful means of action by the state is that you can get credited for 160,000 kroner, the last 55,000 kroner assuming you work in the north. I know that this is not a line change, but a question. But since the representative Henriksen says that this has been proposed by the Labour Party for a long time: if I do not remember correctly, the proposal in the Workers' Party's alternative budget was 5 million. NOK to a test scheme with a write-off of scholarships. Of course, five million. NOK for a trial plan with a write-off of scholarships can be called a lot, but especially powerful is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e320	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e325	I noticed that the council said they had an offensive strategy to recruit teachers. We must note that the offensive strategy has led us to have more unskilled teachers in school now than we have ever had. I want to join in what the previous representative just said, that the situation is particularly serious in North Norway. Even if you had occupied all the places that have been published, you wouldn't have met the needs of future teachers in the district. It's very challenging. The government has reinforced this development by increasing the character requirement in mathematics, sailing if there are not enough students with the grade 4 who are going to apply to the teacher's school. In addition, a number of general teachers have been separated who already had basic training. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he thinks it is satisfactory that the government's project for increased teaching skills actually leads to more unskilled students in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e334	In the case of the numbers of unskilled students in school, there was a massive increase in the years 2005–2010. So it went down a little bit, and then it's quite right that you've had a little jump now. It can also – have been told by the Education Directorate – be something about the question, just so you are aware of it. It's not right that we have separated teachers. All teachers who have a job at school are still going to have a job at school. But what we've said is that we want it as a requirement – we're going to spend time doing this – that if you're going to teach mathematics, you have depression in mathematics, if you're going to teach in Norwegian, you've taken Norwegian in elementary school teacher education, and if you're going to teach English, you've actually taken English in elementary school teacher education. I think it's a perfectly reasonable requirement to say that it doesn't just keep having mathematics in high school, and didn't have mathematics in teacher's education, and then go out teaching mathematics. That's a requirement we want to make. And we've tripled the number of continuing training places – over 6,000 teachers get it – just to be able to meet the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e341	Gunhild Berge Stang – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e347	The debate on the number of teachers in school must address the problem at the right end and ensure that qualified teachers are properly recruited before allocating these beyond classrooms. The challenge in Norwegian school is not that there are too many students in classrooms, but that there are too few adults there and one for widespread use by unskilled people. There is still a problem that there are too few people who want to become teachers, and that there is no happiness in keeping up with those who have taken teacher training. Much has been done to counteract this: qualification scholarships, the write-off of student loans, better teacher training, and much is being treated in the Grand Duchy in connection with the proposal from the Left on the «Teacher's Lift 2». My question to the Council of State is based on yesterday's gender equality debate, and that the proportion of male teachers in the primary school is smaller every year. Why does the Council of State think this is the case, and is there anything the Council of State thinks the government can do about this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e356	I don't have any research material to say why fewer male teachers apply to primary school. If you look at youth and high school, it's a lot more evenly distributed. But I still have a thought about it, and it has to come to the qualified viewing ratio: I think that for many years – and unfortunately this may also have a gender dimension – working in primary school has produced more of a care profession than it is, namely, a knowledge profession, an expert profession, where you are not an expert at writing the word'sol' or solving the equation 2+2=4 – we can all – but expert on how young children learn and develop, you are a pedagogical and didactic expert. I think, unfortunately, that it has also helped to talk down the professionalism of primary school and the importance of good and heavy education for the youngest students, who may have contributed to fewer men applying for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e361	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e366	The result after four years with the Right at the rudder is that the proportion of unskilled teachers teaching in Norwegian classrooms is increasing, while the teacher's density in primary school is falling. It's not much to celebrate. Then it was known last week – through Bergen’s Official Journal – that at the top of this issue, it has been announced that parts of the funds allocated to several teaching positions are not to be used for permanent employment, such that among other things. The municipality of Bergen has not spent the money on employing more fixed teacher positions. So there's been a little bit of ulway manoeuvre in the paper, where it looks like the department owes it to the directorate, but all of this is the Council of State's responsibility, and therefore I wonder how it could happen, and what the Council of State has been planning to do to clean up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e373	Let me first correct: the teacher at school does not go down. It is stable over time, and what was seen in the last numbers, was that the group size of the youngest children, 1–4. Steps are going to go down, so smaller groups are going to be compared to how many teachers there are. When the representative Lysbakken – I have also sent a reply to Stortinget today to the representative’s written questions about this too – says that we owe it to the directorate, it is simply for the simple reason that the directorate had made a mistake. The agreement at Stortinget is quite sunny. These are permanent means, the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left agree on this. It shall be used for teachers from 1 to 4. steps. We have looked at the text of the letter that was sent to the municipalities. It is also okay, but on enquiries some municipalities received notifications that were not correct. This is now corrected by the Directorate of Education, and I take responsibility for it being corrected, of course. But the error was there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e380	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e385	My question goes to EU Minister Frank Bakke-Jensen. According to the German media, the European Commission wants to push our neighbouring countries – Sweden and Denmark – and six other EU countries to abandon their own currency and introduce the euro. Denmark and Sweden shall no longer have the option of having the crown – it shall be rejected and the euro shall be introduced by 2025. The euro must be the currency of the entire Union. On Swedish television, an EU Commissioner just confirmed that the goal is for all EU countries to have the euro. In Norway, the Norwegian people in the EC vote in 1972 and the EU in 1994 ensured that we are not EU members, secured our own crown and ensured that we do not have the euro. It would be a historic loss to scrap the crown and replace it with the euro. The right has enthusiastically fought for the next time – Norway has to abandon its independence, become a member of the EU and introduce the euro. Erna Solberg has been one of the leading female figures of all. Let me quote two previous statements from Erna Solberg: ‘For me, Norway will eventually become part of the euro cooperation of EU membership as a more important and important argument.’ In the Bergens newspaper, she wrote: ‘in the case of EU membership, we can also participate in euro cooperation. [[...]] This would be a great advantage for many Norwegian companies.’ My question to Frank Bakke-Jensen is: does the Council of State support Erna Solberg's previous opinions on the euro?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e402	Now I'm not really sure how old the quotes from Erna Solberg are. I am sure that they will enter into a good and healthy debate on the euro zone and on EU membership. We have been quite clear that a debate on Norwegian EU membership is not a priority for us today, but we are committed to discussing our relationship with Europe and our relationship with the EU, also in a financial context. It is a little strange that some of the EU's opponents and opponents of the EEA Agreement have such a narrow view of euro cooperation at home. We need to be aware that a good part of the countries that have worn out financially entered into euro cooperation – not just positive stories from the entrance – and that euro cooperation has helped to help them out of the financial crisis and on a better path. So, in fact, I would warn against a simplified view of Eurocooperation in the European Union. Also in the case of the Norwegian krona, although it stands well today, economists say that there is uncertainty about why the Norwegian krona is at the level it is. Maybe it should have been on a different level. We must bear in mind that financial cooperation and international cooperation can be a good thing, and that a regulation around the financial institutions that regulates the conduct of economic policies in different countries can also be a good thing. Then I won't answer yes, I support some statements from Erna Solberg, simply because I'm not sure where they came from, and because I don't know the context in which they were given.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e411	One opinion came at the annual meeting of the European Movement, which wants Norway to become part of the Union. The second statement came in Bergensavisen. Foreign Policy Spokesman of the Right, Øyvind Halleraker, was challenged at the same time, and he pronounced in the summer of 2015: ‘It is as true today as it was when Erna said it in 2005.’ The right Øyvind Halleraker was very clear that it is as true today as it was in 2005 that we should introduce the euro in Norway. Does the Council agree with Mr Halleraker that Norway should adopt the euro?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e423	It was very clarifying, because it shows that you have to have a time perspective of between 15 and 20 years to find pointed statements that can color the debate today. From 2005, the EU has been expanding to 28 countries. There has been a financial crisis, which has not started due to euro cooperation, but started for quite different reasons, and we have seen evidence of the ability of European cooperation in the European Union to help some of the weaker countries. When one travels to a part of the countries that entered the European Union in 2004, part of the former Eastern bloc countries, one sees that they are very pleased with eurocooperation, they are very pleased with the support they get to build financial institutions to build a law that allows them to regulate the economy in a good way. And then I'm going to end by saying that no, I don't see immediately that euro cooperation would be the most important thing... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e432	Time's up. It opens for follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e440	I would like to start with two messages that have been dealt with by the Business Committee. The one is the travel life message. It pointed to the krone price as an important contribution to the growth of the tourism industry. The second is the Industrial Communication, where the government on one of the first pages underlines the importance of the krone price to ensure growth in competitive business. Then the State Council of Bakke-Jensen represents a party which has in its programme a wish to participate fully in the EU. I have to say that it is a little special that we have a European minister in this government who is unable to take a view on such an important and central issue and answer what is good for other countries in Europe. The question from the Central Party is: Should Norway, in the view of the Minister for Europe, adopt the euro?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e449	No, no, no. But the premise is not put up like this, as one brings the two messages. Firstly, travel, like other export-oriented industries — travel, in fact, is an export-oriented industry — is dependent on a krone price that balances with the cost level in Norway, so that we can sell the products we have. When we sell fish, the krone price is important, because it tells us how many Norwegian kroner we get left for a euro – the krone price does. The same is true of travel, so that an export-oriented industry could only come here and pick up these goods. So saying that when we point to the dollar rate – and it’s important – it’s automatically pointing to euro cooperation as well, and it’s not going to be right. I have said that in the future, I believe that EU membership for Norway will be right, simply because the EU peace project is a nation like Norway, it is the Norwegian view of value. And as we have progressed today in 2005, I say that there are nuances in it with euro-cooperation, but with EU membership in the future: yes, it will involve euro-cooperation for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e458	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e463	This is really cool. For most people, Eurocooperation is a rather central component of any future EU request, as presumptive from a Right-Handed Government. I suppose that Frank Bakke-Jensen really wants to enter the EU when he says that he wants to enter the EU, and then there is every reason to expect a slightly clearer answer to the very simple question that two representatives from the Central Party have asked – and now also one from SV: Does the Minister of Europe think it desirable to introduce the euro into Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e470	This is probably more a part of a desire to make me unclear. Because at the beginning of this round of questions, I said that the debate on EU membership is not what is at the top of the agenda today, simply because it does not fit in with the public debate. I would like to discuss our relationship with Europe. In fact, I believe we have a great job to do in terms of discussing the EEA Agreement in order to give reality to some of the opposition parties about what this really is. And then I say that when we again discuss an EU membership sometime in the future, which I hope, yes, eurocooperation will be a natural part of that membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e477	Hans Olav Syversen – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e482	This is also an interesting debate because the French President has actually said that he wants a European Finance Minister, who will have a budget to run after. It has been missing in the EU in many ways up to now. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are followers of a completely different form of association, the one mentioned by the Council of State in one of its replies, namely the EEA Agreement, which has proved to be tough and beneficial to Norway. So I just want to ask the Council of States: from the months he has now been a European Minister, how important – more or less important – has he seen that the EEA Agreement, for which we now celebrate the 25th anniversary in Norway, has been for the Norwegian economy and Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e489	Thank you for a very good question. My whole work instructions are on that question there. What does the EEA Agreement mean for Norway? Well, that's the most important international agreement we have. So it regulates our relationship with our closest neighbours, it regulates our trade relationship, it allows Norwegian citizens to travel where they want to go in Europe. In a simple way, we can take the Norwegian health care service with us when we are out. Our youth can study wherever they want, we get cultural exchanges, we learn something about people and countries in Europe, we can deal with goods, we can have workers back and forth, we can have financial services back and forth, which ensures the Norwegian krona in a very good way, and so above all, in the new era we can deal with services in the future. The service industry in Norway has an opportunity in a large market of 500 million. human beings, within a framework that is equal, i.e. that a holding in Norway is treated in the same way as a holding in France. That's the most important international agreement we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e494	Ola Elvesuen – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e499	In the opening question, reference was made to a NRK and Swedish news release, a source in a German newspaper, that, following a meeting in Brussels, the EU Commission now wants to demand EU countries to join the euro by 2025. It is then important to point out that Commissioner Dombrovskis, who attended the meeting, just after the meeting confirmed that such a time limit had been set. There is nothing new in that the EU wants more qualified countries to enter the euro, but they can only do so if they are qualified, there are strict economic requirements, and only countries that qualify and want to do so can enter the euro. Next week, the European Commission will provide a reflection note on the future of the euro and on possible road choices. It's going to be interesting to read. But my question is: Is there not anything to suggest that there is any change in EU policy on whether to impose requirements or to impose other conditions on who should be able to enter the euro?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e506	When Eurocooperation started, it was optional for the Member States. You had to be qualified first, and then you could choose to be a part of it. So it was said by the enlargement, when the new countries came in last, that there was a requirement to participate in euro cooperation. It was to frame cooperation and create some support functions for some countries that did not have the financial institutions that you need to have in order to meet the requirements of being part of European cooperation. So this is the way nothing has changed. However, it is a wish that Eurocooperation should be comprehensive in the EU – well, on the one hand, yes, on the other hand, it is said to have a ‘multi-speed’ EU, i.e. a multi-speed EU. One should be able to cooperate in that field with some countries, and within that field with some countries. It is precisely euro-cooperation – an opportunity for those countries that want and qualify to participate in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e512	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e517	Terror has hit Manchester. The evil, brutality and fear are also felt here at home, including enormous sympathy and compassion for victims and victims – children who lose parents, parents who lose children. No one can be unaffected by this. It is understandable that we nordics in Norway are being afraid. Terrorism can also happen here at home. We therefore have three major tasks ahead of us in the fight against terrorism: We must ensure a good police force and a PST that can prevent those planning such attacks in Norway. We must in every possible way counter extremist ideologies, including Islamism, whether it comes out openly through the Internet or behind closed doors in scary environments. We must have a school that succeeds with all students with all backgrounds. I'm going to focus this minute on the last one. For there will be Norwegian children with different skin colors, backgrounds and religions who will come with completely different sets of values and perceptions for the school. Some have been bullied by the growth at home, others through friends, some through mosques, others through the Internet and other ways. The school's task should be to correct this disorderly learning. If children go out of ordinary school today and hate people with another religion, freedom of expression or gay, or even Norwegian society, then you haven't succeeded in general education at school. Then we failed with the school. Then we failed as a society. The school is one of the strongest and most important tools we have to give historical and cultural insight and anchoring, and as the Education Act says: The school should give ‘respect to human dignity and nature, to freedom of the spirit, to love, to forgive, to be equivalised and to solidarity. [[...]] [[...]] We can therefore be surprised that in the government’s action plan against extremism, the Ministry of Knowledge has a relatively small role to play in the measures, limited to knowledge of hate rhetoric and unwanted experiences on the Internet and the development of learning resources for the high school on violent extremism. My question to the Minister of Knowledge is: What are the main measures in Norwegian school to prevent radicalisation among today's young people in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e540	I think we all feel exactly the same when we see the pictures and the stories from Manchester, and in particular that there are children and young people who consciously and purposefully are going after, probably with a bomb that was made to do the best possible damage. It's cruel and cruel. So to the representative Raja's question: Norwegian school is not value neutral. Norwegian school is not a platform where any value is as good, Norwegian school is not built on a relativity where no matter what you think, it should be okay. Norwegian school is built on democratic, fundamental values. Norwegian School is for democracy, Norwegian School stands for freedom of expression, Norwegian School stands for human dignity, Norwegian School stands for tolerance, Norwegian School stands for equality. So there's a narrow and a broad way we're working on this. The narrow way is e.g. through programmes such as Dembra, such as The HL Centre in Oslo – the Holocaust Centre – is a contributor to, working with the basic values of the students, precisely in view of the fact that they will also be educated and able to become citizens of society in a democratic society. The broad way is through the school's value document, the general part of the school, the overall part. Now there's actually a new version of it out at the hearing. So the representative Raja raises an important but a little difficult question. Because I fully agree that the school also has a role to play in forming. School is not value neutral. At the same time, we cannot guarantee that any student leaving Norwegian school will automatically have democratic positions. Teachers must also live in tension between, on the one hand, conveying some common Norwegian values and, on the other hand, encouraging individual thinking, but of course: extremism, radicalism, is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e551	It is very good and reassuring to hear that Norwegian school should not be value-related, we cannot go on chords with our most important values in Norway. We also have a school class from Ekeberg at the gallery today, and as all teachers know, the school should not only prevent radicalisation but also prevent ignorance. Populist movements in Europe and the United States are fueled by a decline in respect for knowledge. Human rights, nature management, climate, the public sector, child protection also go beyond trust in independent courts and the free press. The Stortinget now deals with a proposal from the Left – Teacherlift 2.0 – where, among other things, it is proposed to draw up a concrete plan for the further development of the provision of continuing training to teachers, including: Social sciences — and as part of the social sciences: history — can become a real offer for more teachers, so that we can gain a high level of competence in the teaching of these subjects. The Council of State responds that the Government will consider extending the offer where appropriate. The question is: In the light of recent societal developments, when does the Council of State think this would be appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e556	I think we should take the discussion about the representative proposal when it comes up in Stortinget. So we have further training for teachers today in all schools, i.e. the whole range of schools, but again, to follow up what I said instead that the school is not value-neutral: the school doesn't matter, for example. scientific thinking. The school is going to teach the students critical thinking, it's going to teach the students to think for themselves, the school needs to have room for different opinions, it's of course 100 pst. Partisan neutral, but the school has a job of teaching students the scientific way of thinking. And what does that mean? Scientific thinking is not that you have an answer to everything, but is a method of finding answers to questions. That is also why we say that schools in Norway cannot teach ways that are totally and completely broken by this, and this applies in all disciplines.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e561	It opens for follow-up questions – first Terje Breivik.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e566	The size has to manage the biggest message about the humanities. It is said very wisely about the importance of humanities also in the basic sphere, systematic work with the humanities of science, history, understanding of society, philosophy, understanding of religion, and all the other things that contribute to the realization of the goal of a training law. The message also determines that the humanities involved are associated with the theological faculties. It makes sense, because a scientific approach to religion is an important part of the formation of society, and in the integration agreement the government is asked to ‘examine the possibility of an official, Norwegian education of religious leaders from relevant religious communities on a model from the way this is done by Norwegian educational institutions’. The University of Oslo has all been behind imam education under the authority of state funding. So the question is, what is the status of the distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e571	The ministry has followed this up and made an investigation, and the conclusion is that there is nothing in principle in the way of doing this. Now, of course, as the representative also knows, it is important to stress that this does not mean that other imams will be banned in Norway, but that means that they also receive an offer from a Norwegian educational institution. That means that it's now a budgetary question, that is, you have to give money to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e576	Martin Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e581	A common arena, which is a strong public common school, is important for building tolerance, for countering extremism, for giving students a critical sense at a time of much unrest and of fake news, and for giving students the opportunity to interpret news and society around them. In order to be concrete, there is a need for a multi-disciplinary increase in competence. The left questioner was shown, among other things. to social sciences. There is also a need in practical-esthetic subjects, which Stortinget has decided to strengthen. There is a great deal of pressure on the basic subjects through, for example: competence requirements. For math and natural sciences, the country covers a higher proportion than for other subjects in the field of continuing education. Is the Council of State considering that both the requirements of competence and the different levels of state funding have weakened the attention of the other subjects and will the Council of State consider changing the funding mechanism to strengthen the other subjects as well, such as social sciences or practical aesthetics?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e586	Today, mathematics and science are financed a little bit higher than the other subjects. I mean, you have to hold on to it a little bit. If we're going to take all the practical aesthetics up to that level, we're really raising everyone. The question really is how long do we have to continue to finance mathematics and science in particular? I think we should keep doing that for a while. I believe that some of the practical-esthetic subjects in the school are in a special position when it comes to, for example. the number of teachers who do not have any depression in the subject. I believe that the gold standard in Norwegian school is quite obvious. It's a teacher who has depression in the subject, who can do what he's going to teach, has education in it, and it's also true in the practical-esthetic subjects. Food and health, art and crafts and music are not breathing holes in the Norwegian school. It's central, important schooling where you have to have as high expectations for the students and the professional content as in the subjects of Norwegian and mathematics. We're working on a plan to raise the practical-esthetic subjects in school, and it can of course be time to look at further education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e594	Anders Tyvand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e599	I fully agree that the school plays an important role in combating extremism in the future of Norwegian society. The Norwegian school also has a good purpose paragraph which determines the values on which to build the Norwegian school and the values to be communicated to the students. Now the work of renewing the curriculum is well under way. New overall section is out at the hearing, and Stortinget has put some leads. We say that the values of the purpose paragraph should be raised more clearly throughout the curriculum. The Christian People's Party also agreed with the whole Stortinget that we should carry out a valuelift in school that will give all teachers a responsibility to work on conveying these values. It's about tolerance, freedom of mind, respect for human dignity, etc. The preliminary signals from many environments in terms of new overarching parts are that the value aspect appears to have been weakened and not strengthened. Can the Council of State guarantee that the leaders of the Storting will be followed up on a value pledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e606	Yes. It's also very clear in our order to the Education Directorate in the trade renewal that we want a valuelift in school, and that the new curricula are going to be a valuelift in school. We now have a new overall section out at the hearing to see if we can meet. This is a very important document, and it's not a hearing because we just have to do it, it's because we want to record, we want the discussion. We've had public hearing conferences with hundreds of participants all over the country just to get that kind of input. I have one pet that's important to remember, and it's that values in school can't be treated as if you can have 15 minutes a week to learn about values. Every hour in school is also a value hour. That means that education and education are related. Education without education is dangerous, but it is also difficult to get good education if not education, knowledge, is at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e613	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e618	I agree with the last thing that the Council of State said, and I think everyone agrees that it is important to have a school where everyone can succeed. I'm also sure that Ekeberg School is concerned with culture, because in culture there is a lot of learning and values. This applies, inter alia, to: both food and health, art and crafts and music, on which the council itself was involved. It is like today among those who teach practical-esthetic subjects, that for example. in art and crafts there are 44 pst. who have no study score, and in food and health, there are 54 pst. who have no study score. Then we also know that in the admission to education for art and crafts there were 58 students in all of Norway who applied for a vocational education. There's been a circular writing about being able to take PPU, i.e. an addition, for those who already have an art education at the bottom, and that it was to be excluded that you had to have a master background. The question is, are the words of the Council of State, as it says in the press release, correct, or are they the words of the draft hearing that are correct? Is there still to be an exception?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e625	Yes. What we've decided is that in the case of PPUs for those who have an art education, Bachelor is sufficient, not the master's requirement that applies to the others, and that's because there's another type of education. If there are any cracking signals there, I'll immediately check it out. It can't be like that, to say it very easily. I believe that there is really an obvious answer to this when – as the representative says – almost half of the teachers in central school, the practical-esthetic subjects, do not have depression. That's what we announced in the big news, which has also been treated at Stortinget, namely the depression requirements in all the subjects in the school, including the practical-esthetic subjects. The reason why we can't do it just overnight is that it's a little bit difficult to get it into practice. That's why I say that's the gold standard. It is also a very clear signal to the municipalities. It's not like it's just important to have a math teacher with depression in math, it's also important to have a music teacher and a teacher in art and crafts who has actually worked on this. It's not breathing holes, it's central school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e634	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e639	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance has received NOK 99 144 in a three-year salary increase. Can the Minister of Finance tell us what a single pensioner with a low pension rate has received in the same period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e646	As the representative Lysbakken, I am also concerned that the pensioners will have a pension to live on. Therefore, it has been important for this government to implement several measures aimed at pensioners, precisely to strengthen their purchasing power. During this period, the government has provided tax relief that has benefited pensioners, and we have implemented a change in the so-called curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners that de facto means that a pensioner couple strengthens their economy by $8,000 a year. In addition, on two occasions, the four cooperation parties have reinforced the minimum pension for single pensioners, initially with NOK 4000 with effect from 1 September 2016 and with a new DKK 4000 with effect from 1 September this year. So we put forward in the revised budget proposals to increase the minimum deduction, which in particular makes the pensioners who have a taxable pension just above the minimum pension. I think that's an arrangement for tax relief against the pensioners who have a good social profile. So the sum total, the pensioners have come out pretty well, because the government has prioritised giving relief to the pensioners throughout the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e655	The pensioners disagree, and I understand why the Minister of Finance will not answer the question, because a single pensioner who had 180,000 kroner in income in 2014, has thus lost 10 700 kroner on the underregulation of the Government of Siv Jensen in the period when the Minister of Finance himself has received 99 000 kroner in salary increases. The last tax note to the pensioners – which the Progress Party boasts – shows here a letter I have, from Siv Jensen, that 223,400 pensioners get zero joy from. Therefore, I wonder: What do party leaders and finance minister Siv Jensen think that party leaders and opposition politicians Siv Jensen would say if another party for three years in a row underregulated pensioners' pensions, while making their own wage increase – in the world's richest country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e662	It's precisely because we've been through a moderate payroll period, which obviously also affects pensioners' settlements, that the government has chosen to spend $840 million on the revised budget. kr to increase the minimum deduction. This is particularly true of pensioners who enter the tax position that is just above the minimum pension. If you look at the distribution tables in terms of how this tax relief takes, it has a very good social device. It is also – as I mentioned in my previous answer – what we have done for married and cohabiting pensioners and lone minimum pensioners. But we have to assume that the fact that we have had moderate wage settlement is due to the fact that Norway has been hit by the largest oil price drop in 30 years. It affects the pension regulation. This is a consequence of the pension reform that both the Light Hill, when he was in government, and the Advance Party in government is ruling on the basis of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e670	It opens for follow-up questions - first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e675	Now, the finance minister's own wage settlement has not been so moderate, but it's a different matter. Is the reason why pensioners no longer get into the post, really that the Minister of Finance is trying to hide how bad social security arrangements have been for pensioners in the last three years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e682	Let me just say first, to the slightly sluggish comment: it is not the Minister of Finance who determines the salary of the Minister of Finance, it is the Stortinget who does. So it's the representative Serigstad Valen who has been involved in contributing, and not me – just so we've said it. So, in the case of payroll settlements in the last few years, I am glad that the parties have contributed to moderate settlement in a situation that has been exceptionally demanding for the Norwegian economy. There have also been tough thanks to the South and the West. 47 000 people have lost their jobs in oil-related industries. The fact that the parties have contributed to a moderate settlement is good because it has strengthened the competitiveness of many Norwegian companies and has contributed to the fact that we are now seeing it shining in the Norwegian economy. Now growth in the Norwegian economy is rising, unemployment is falling. In addition, the government has found room for prioritising pensioners by doing something about the curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners, by strengthening the minimum pension and by providing tax reductions that hit those who have low and medium pensions quite accurately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e691	Lise Christoffersen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e696	After all, the first 4000 kroner for the lone minimum pensioners do not come from the government, they come from the Stortinget, through proposals from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party – but enough about it. It is quite special, I think, that the size of the Progress Party watch is referred to the Questionnaire in order to be briefed on the distribution effects of social security schemes. I believe that it is a legitimate requirement that the Stortinget should be given clarity in the policy of the Progress Party towards the pensioners, for it is, to put it mildly, a little confusing for the time being. Former State Council Robert Eriksson stood here in Stortinget and praised the government for having taken up the regulatory principles to prevent real wage cuts for pensioners. There was never a case. The same government council said that there was nothing to prevent social security schemes from being presented to the Stortinget in the future. Now it is clear to everyone that what stands in the way is the Progress Party itself. So I would like to hear the Minister of Finance's political, not technical, justification for this kind of spin-off that the Progress Party has been in government for the policy towards the pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e705	I didn't understand that question, simply. But let me try to correct at least one misunderstanding that the representative Lise Christoffersen came with. It is therefore the case that the four cooperation parties, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, have strengthened the minimum pensions through two budgetary settlements – the first round with effect from 1 September 2016, the second round with effect from 1 September 2017. It has not been part of the Workers' Party. The Labour Party has not voted in favour of the budgetary arrangements concluded between the four parties. Then, both in government and outside government, the Progress Party has always been concerned with the status of pensioners. Therefore, the government has taken action throughout this period to strengthen the purchasing power of pensioners. We've done it by reducing the curtailment of the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners, for whom the Workers' Party is, I just want to remind you about it. The working party has never lifted a finger to do anything with this unfair curtailment, which this government has done anything about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e712	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e717	The centre party is in favour of the social security settlement being presented to Stortinget as a matter of its own in the spring. As a result, discussions between the State and the pensioners’ organisations on social security arrangements are being prepared for the treatment of the Storting. When the government does not want to present the social security settlement as a matter of its own in our case, the local government representatives do not want to show their opinion about the pension stoppage now. This does not give us a popular debate on the assumptions behind the figures either. This year the organisations and the state do not even agree on the wage growth of the active population. During the LO-NHO settlement, a wage growth of 2.4 pst was assumed, with the country using 1.7 pst. This difference amounts to approximately NOK 1750 for a pension of NOK 250000. My question is, isn't it an advantage for the pensioners that we get an informed debate about the retirement stoppage while it's up to date?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e726	I want both pensioners and the rest of Norway's population to be able to take part in an informed debate on both payroll and other factors that are important to one's personal economy. I think we're going to do that in different ways by briefing the Biggest on these things. I want to remind the representative Lundtigen that the difference between 2.4 and 1.7 pst., as he himself pointed out, comes from the pension reform. It was a reform for which the Centre Party was in favour and for which they sought majority support when it was introduced. So this government has said that precisely because the pensioners have experienced a weaker purchasing power development as a result of moderate wage-fixing now for three consecutive years, we have spent 840 million. the revised budget to facilitate pensioners, in particular those with low and medium pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e733	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e738	I have a question for State Council Frank Bakke-Jensen. A month ago, the government presented its Northern Region Strategy in Bodø, in a good part of the country, and where the arrows point up. The strategy involves, in a number of areas, a continuation of the policy pursued by the Stoltenberg II Government. That's good, and we'll put that behind us. At the same time, State Council Bakke-Jensen clarified that the Right-Fremskritsparte government at a decisive point separates layers with the Workers' Party. According to NRK Nordland, the Council of State said that in Northern Region policy, it is not the government's task to cancel the course. To me, it bears witness to the statement of inaction. If we're going to be serious about the north, we need a government that shows leadership, not a government that stands on the sideline and just honors those who succeed, as the Council of State formulated as a kind of ideal. The government must be a driver internationally and nationally. Here the results do not come without the political leadership, who is just stepping out the course, thinking long-term, showing will and not just standing on the sideline and cheering on those who succeed on their own. Our government achieved great results through active leadership, by having a political agenda and a willingness to outstrip the course. We got rid of the illegal, unregulated fishing in the Barents Sea. We set up a part-line agreement with Russia. We greatly contributed to the construction of Arctic Councils that have taken place in recent years. We established BarentsWatch. We made sure to strengthen Tromsø, Bodø and Alta as knowledge cities, important knowledge centres in the northern regions. Can the Council of State explain why the Right Party government will not cancel the course in the northern regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e752	That's not a proper quote. We did not say that we should not cancel the course. We said there were some things going to happen in the northern regions. We have stressed that the Northern Region Strategy should be relevant to the North Norway and Northern Norway business areas, to the Nordic population and to the Nordic knowledge institutions in the future. Then we have said that the economic development that comes, we politicians are not primarily creating, it is the business that creates. We ran the course, but we don't become practitioners in the business that comes in North Norway. The difference between the two strategies is that we've brought down the North Region policy to make it relevant to the region, and then we're strengthening the institutions and the fields we think are important for such a commitment. When we have a special investment in education in the north, it's because the three counties and most of the municipalities in the north have delivered Norway's worst education to the young. We believe that in order for young people to stay in the country, take the opportunities that come, they should have a school that is as good up there as you get in the best municipalities in the country. That is why we have a very special and focused focus on education in the north, both on teacher training to ensure that we get skilled teachers at school, and on the fact that the teachers who are in school today are receiving continuing and continuing training. It's concreteizing the promise of knowledge in the north. Then we have an infrastructure effort that sees an export-oriented part of the country. It is also to facilitate export-oriented industries in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e761	I do not think the Council of State answers the question, so let me try to ask it another way: for the Labour Party, it is a clear goal that Norway should be world leader in the sea. Then North Norway is absolutely central – 80 pst. of our marine areas is north of the polar circle. It won't come of itself. We need to do that, and we need to bet – fishermen, breeders, researchers, the energy and mineral sectors, along with the political authorities of the country, and with the knowledge institutions. Together, we want to set up a value creation programme for the marine industries. The Labour Party will make Norway the world leader in areas where we already take advantage of – within fish, within farming, within energy and in the exploitation of new species. Does the Council share this ambition? And does the Council of State think it's possible to get there without the government sticking out the course and showing clear leadership?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e768	Yes, I share the ambition, I share the vision. And I honestly mean that if the representative had read the strategy, he would have seen that here's the clear course, the rough course, here's the leadership. We've just done what was missing in the previous bet. We've put into practice what kind of bets to be there, what kind of tools we're using, and we're using the knowledge institutions. We use them all the way down to kindergarten and first class, all the way down to primary school, to go with us the kids in the country. We use infrastructure measures to go with our businesses and businesses in the country. We use the great knowledge institutions to show that we are the world's leading nation. We're good at sea. We have delivered a strategy on the sea, and we have delivered a big message on the geopolitical issues dealing with the sea. I am surprised that the representative does not see that he is now on a steady journey straight ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e773	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e787	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Hadia Tajik to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Industry. The question will be answered by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation on behalf of the Minister for Industry, who has been removed. Question 5, from the representative of Åsmund Aukrust to the Minister for Industry, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Industry, who has been away. Question 7, from the representative Freddy de Ruiter to the Minister of Knowledge, has been withdrawn. Question 10, from the representative Tor Bremer to the Minister for Fisheries, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative of Arild Grande to the Minister for Culture, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e809	This question, from the representative of Hadia Tajik to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Industry. The question will be answered by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation on behalf of the Minister for Industry, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e814	‘Sal of State Forest. Not mandatory for fish. Privatisation of extraterrestrial cables. Sub-privatisation of State power. Privatize Avinor. Selling NSB, NRK and Bring. Sal of the Flytrain. Change the concession law for agriculture. And generally, the private ownership of state-owned companies like Telenor and the Kongsberg Group increases. These are some examples of the government and government party's eagerness to privatize and sell Norway. Can the Prime Minister do something for why the government is busy selling community values?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e821	The representative makes a number of crazy claims in his question, and uses a little bit of informative rhetoric. The question shows that the Workers' Party uses a rhetoric in the opposition that is not related to the policy in place. In fact, the Workers' Party has opened up private ownership in a number of state companies. It's got Right's support. Examples include listing and sub-privatisation of Statoil and Telenor and privatisation of Arcus and Norsk Medisinaldepot. To follow the rhetoric of the Workers' Party, no one has sold more of the Community than the Workers' Party itself. Being criticized by a party in opposition to do the same thing as the party itself did in position is always interesting. But if this rhetoric is a taste of the autumn election campaign, it's about to become a little bit of an informative debate. The government will stimulate more private ownership in Norwegian business. A good balance between public and private ownership is important. The government’s ownership policy is set out in the ownership message. It shows which companies the government thinks the government should own. The Government has not requested authorisation to privatise Statskog, Statkraft, Avinor, NSB, NRK or Posten Norway, as mentioned by the representative. Furthermore, the Government wishes to maintain state ownership of Telenor and Kongsberg Group in order to maintain knowledge-based and high-tech groups with head offices in Norway. We are clear that any change in the ownership interests of the country will only be implemented if this is considered to be economically beneficial to the community. We're not in a hurry. In order to contribute to a more diverse and valuable Norwegian business life, the government wishes over time to reduce its direct ownership of companies where there are no specific reasons why the State should own. However, I would remind you that the government in the ownership announcement states that the state will remain a significant and long-term owner in Norwegian business even in the future. The government is pursuing a policy of making the most of our common resources and public money. Once upon a time, the Workers' Party was also concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e838	If this was a taste of the election campaign in the autumn, we have at least been told that Right has not intended to spend the time talking about its own policy, but above all has intended to attack others. When I ask questions based on the combination of the government's own proposals and their own party programmes, one of them is more likely to attack the Labour Party. My question is simple: should people and voters and add to all these companies now assume that the Right and Advance Party have signalled in their party programmes and the sum of their proposals, have been cancelled through what Jan Tore Sanner now says, or is it still in fact by layers as expressed in their proposals and party programmes?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e843	The representative Tajik has to expect to be answered when you lie down on such a low political level rhetorically and is so unprecise and makes direct false claims in his question. I have refuted that point by point. It must be a problem for the Workers' Party when their party leader was Chief of Staff at the Prime Minister's office when, according to the representative, Norway was sold out, and the same party leader now wants to be Prime Minister. This is about taking care of Norwegian values, Norwegian workplaces, Norwegian value creation. And yes, the government is concerned that we're going to have a balance between state and private ownership. I hardly think the Workers' Party mentions the value of private ownership in its program. The government and government parties are committed to strengthening Norwegian private ownership in favour of Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e850	It's a good answer, and it's a good idea. When it comes to the Workers' Party's party programme, I can assure everyone that there is a great deal about the importance of creating jobs, not least in private business. We see that almost nothing has happened during the Right-Forward Party government. Then I would like to stress that no one is showing such an eagerness to sell things that are important to Norway – forests, fish, important companies for Norwegian infrastructure, companies that represent important professional competence for Norway – as the Right and the Advance Party in sum do. My question is simply: why is it so important for the Right and the Advance Party to show this zeal after increasing privatisation in areas where we see that it actually works that the state has a role in ownership? Why is it that their ideological zeal overshadows the good state ownership that one has seen for quite a number of years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e857	I can almost not believe that the representative himself believes in his own rhetoric when you represent a party that has partially privatised Telenor and Statoil, that has been right decisions, that Right has supported, and that you now criticize a government for having a less ambitious sales process than the Workers' Party itself had in the early 2000s. A balanced ownership is important. It is important that we strengthen Norwegian private ownership. It is important to secure Norwegian jobs for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e867	‘The Government Party The Advance Party shall elect to remove the 100-metre zone. What does the Council of State, which is the leading spokesman of the Right Party government in this field, think of this policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e880	I have no plans to remove the building ban in the 100-metre belt of the beach zone along the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e885	Thanks for the answer. There was an answer that cheers me up, because since the 1950s there has been a political consensus about taking care of the values of the beach sonals. The general ban on construction in the 100-metre belt along the sea was introduced for the first time in 1965, and the ban has been imposed since 1985 in the Law on Planning and Building. It states that the 100-metre belt is intended to provide special attention to the natural environment, the cultural environment, the outdoors, the landscape and other general interests. All-man rights are a free common good, and coastal zone travel is an important part of this. This right is based on our being considerate in terms of landowners and other users, and showing respect for the community. Nevertheless, we often see illegal closures or other physical obstacles such as hedges, fences, etc., or signage and other privatising measures intended to stop or hinder legal movement. What measures should be taken by my government to prevent the illegal privatisation of beach sonals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e892	If it's illegal privatisation, of course, it's something for the authorities to get hold of. My experience is that in Norway we are good at protecting property and all-man rights, and that the municipalities have good tools to ensure both protection and expansion in the beach zone. Government planning guidelines have been given on how municipalities can practice such differentiated management, and my impression is that it is well practised. We are now going through the experience we have, and we will also assess whether the guidelines should be adjusted in the light of experience – and also as a consequence of the community reform, where we get larger municipalities along the coast. However, as far as illegal privatisation is concerned, of course, there is a question that needs to be addressed by appropriate authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e897	Thanks for the answer. The government has also stated that through the law they will have State security of open-air areas, facilitate access for the people across the country to the beach zone, and that the law is the most important means of achieving this. The government points out that the beach zone is the area in Norway under the strongest depression pressure, that the construction ban is not absolute, and that it can be deviated by plans and exemptions. In particular, in the populace areas, there is a great deal of pressure for degradation, and exemptions from the building ban legislation are very often granted. How will the Council of State ensure that the people of the whole country have good access to the coastal zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e902	We have a decent law for that today, and I think we have reason to be satisfied with the way that both municipalities and the state have arranged for the public in the 100-metre belt. It is an important Norwegian value to have good access, and through the planning, municipalities can ensure a good balance between protection and development. So it's like, as I said in my previous post, that the government is now going through the experience you have, and will also consider adjustments in the guidelines if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e910	‘In the new programme of the Progress Party, we can read that ‘Avinor’s monopoly is liquidated and its activities are privatised, split or sold and that the State facilitates the greatest possible degree of competition in the area.’ When will Stortinget receive a case on this matter, and how has the Council of State thought that Avinor's balancing model between profitable and unprofitable airports is being maintained so that a wide and varied air route offer across the country can be maintained in the future?»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e917	I am pleased that the representative Juvik is optimistic about the results of the Advance Party elections for the autumn. So am I. We've done a lot in the time we've been in government, and there's a reason people want more of it. However, the presentation of the proposal for a new party programme by the Progress Party before the entry into force of the party programme is rather offensive. We also have to wait for the election result to see if we're going to rule alone, as the representative Juvik suggests, or whether we're going to rule with others. I think it'll be together with others, and then it'll be the government platform on which the government relies when it presents the policy. We have just submitted a notice of ownership of Avinor from the government. It's really the one that should be interesting to discuss. There, we are facilitating the development of the aviation industry in Norway. We're making arrangements to invest more in infrastructure. We also facilitate the involvement of several private actors in aerodrome operations. This means that the travellers will get a better offer. The elements of private activity have also been supported by local Labour Party rapporteurs, for example: in Haugesund. I hope that the Labour Party in Stortinget is as visionary as its local politicians. The main question is how to ensure a good aviation structure across the country. That's really the main question. How does one ensure the internal subsidisation of Avinor today? You could do it in a couple of ways. The approach of the Progress Party has been that one can do so over the State budget. Today, it is done through internal subsidisation in Avinor. There are different political opinions about this, but the important thing is that it can be secured in more ways than one does today. Nevertheless, the Progress Party has a very clear alternative to this, but I note that one on the red-green side has wanted to remove some of the tools from which Avinor is currently receiving profits, for example. tax-free sales, which generate much of the surplus that allows one to have aerodromes in the districts. That's why it's really even more interesting to know what a red-green constellation in the election campaign will agree that they should promote as a funding method. When some parties want to discuss the total removal of the tax-free regime, it's not just about whether it's the Vinmonopole or others who sell alcohol at airports. It will not be turnover of particular importance, and then it will also lose revenue. That is an approach I would strongly warn against. We know that the Labour Party has discussed that solution several times before its national meetings. We hope that the Workers' Party does not fall on such a solution. It would really hurt the airports in District Norway. At the 30 smallest aerodromes there is more aviation activity and more passengers now than it was at the government change. This indicates that the government is working to give people a good flight offer throughout the country. I think one should consider the results, and so the results go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e930	In fact, what ensures this model is the Avinor model, where there is a co-financing between those who are in profit and those who are in deficit. At least I want to do what I can to help ensure that the policy of the Progress Party will not continue over the next four years. That's not my point. But both what is about to happen in this period and what may happen in the coming period, it is important that the voters are aware of. The representative tries to bring out the tax-free card again – he should rather read on the application of the Workers' Party. It's reasonably clear. We're going to continue funding for Avinor and keep the Avinor model as today, and the revenue from tax-free is going to go to Avinor. The discussion is whether or not to operate the wine monopoly. It's not like the government council is waiting for the owner's message. Even next week, he's going to have a general meeting. There he proposes to amend the statutes before Stortinget has finished processing the ownership message. Does the Council of State consider that there is a proper procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e939	With regard to co-financing, I point out that the Workers' Party will not have a majority alone either. We know that several of the partners that the Workers' Party wants as part of its constellation, want a tax-free arrangement where the pepper grows, or want big changes in it. Therefore, in the political debate in the election campaign, when the debates are to be held there, one will have to compare what the different solutions are. It is interesting if the Workers' Party is already clarifying that the alternative proposals of their cooperation parties will be cancelled. That would be elucidating. In that case, it is very gratifying, for this debate, as for example. The centre party and others have led, have not been involved in strengthening the airports in the districts, rather on the contrary. As far as the policy towards Avinor is concerned, it is contained in the Communication promoted to the Stortinget. I do not fully understand what the representative Juvik is aiming for when he believes that harmful things have happened during this period. I'd like to have that dealt with. What we see is that large investments are being made in the aviation sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e946	Then the Avinor model is crucial – and that you get an investment across the country and have a good airport network. But the one-sided attitude of this government, including in this area, is one-sided belief in the outsourcing of competition and the private sector. That's what you add up to. It is very clear to the party in their programme, they have it in the government statement, and even the representative in the general meeting will have to open the statutes next week so that you can sell out the aerodromes completely to private – that is, start building up the Avinor model. That's what he's adding up to. And Bodø, who has been the great experiment of the government on the competition and outsourcing of groundhandling and fire and protection – has it been successful? No, it doesn't. It has been so little successful that they do not actually want to continue the contract when it expires, and use the option, and will operate with a deficit. This shows that they have been underprivileged. It's also at the expense of the offer, and there's great scepticism about what's going on in the summer, about the operation. My question is: does the Council of State think it is right to amend the statutes before the ownership notice is dealt with?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e955	Here comes a lot of statements that don't really get messed up. It's not like the only thing this government has done is put airports on offer, and so on. We're running like before, but we're doing better because there's more investment. One makes sure that one can get more for the money a lot of places. We see that in the Haugesund area, all the rapporteurs of the Labour Party are very satisfied with the solution we have had, or that we are in the process of – that one should be able to outsource the operation of the airport in tender. But Avinor still has to own the airport. It must soon be clear to the representative of the Workers' Party when he argues with and gives the impression that things are being sold by the State. No, things are owned by the state in these areas, but they're going to operate in an even more professional way. We see that this is a better flight offer. There are more people who travel by plane now than it was before. One can shake his head as much as one wants, but the statistics show an increase in the number of flights in Norway, not a decline. I hope the Workers' Party will start a fact-based debate in the future rather than pursue the scare propaganda we have seen on this matter and on other issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e965	‘In its new programme, the party to the Fremskrittspartie writes that an objective of their economic policy is to reduce the public ownership of companies operating in direct competition with private operators, to sell the NSB, and to open up several sections of railway to competition. The Government has already decided that several train sections should be offered. What plans does the government have for the sale of the NSB, and when will this become known for Stortinget?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e972	I am a little surprised that the Workers' Party in its second consecutive question is starting from a batch program that will apply from 2017 to 2021, and asks questions as if it is suddenly incorporated in today's government statement. I believe that for all those who are serious about political life and know how national meetings are, the programme adopted for the next period is not something that automatically enters a government platform. The Labour Party has historically sat so much in government that I think it's quite obvious to them. But the debate that is going on, namely how to get a better railway, I think is very interesting. The government's ownership policy for the NSB has been presented in a big message to the Stortinget, so I really think that the representative Tung knows very well. But what we've done, just to sum it up, is we've increased the investments in the railway considerably. That means that it is now invested in building better railways. More double tracks are being built, precisely to increase frequency, increased access and increased capacity. Then we've done something that hasn't been done in this country for decades: we've started to maintain the infrastructure we already have, to the extent that one now actually reduces its maturity, instead of increasing it. When the Workers' Party took over the government offices in 2005, it was the total lag of the railway maintenance approx. $9.5 billion. kr. With the budget proposed by the Workers' Party for 2014, just before they left, the overall maintenance allowance would be more than 18 billion. kr – i.e. almost a double in the maturity of the railway, although an increase in the appropriations, for a priority money was wrong. In the three and a half years that this government has run, the maturity has fallen, simply because the maintenance appropriations have been more than doubled. There are some of the priorities that are really important to the railway. We have also made sure that we have improved the organization of some things. We have collected the ownership of railway property that has been a little bit in Bane NOR and a little bit in the Railway Works. Now they're gathered one place, in Bane NOR. It's going to be a more efficient administration. We have made sure that some of the sub-companies that NSB had have been lifted and owned directly by the Ministry of Transport, because ticket system development should not be something that only NSB does, but should be something that the company should do for the whole railway sector, even for the whole collective sector. Then you get a lot of use from the job that is done. The third is that we use more competition. The working party opened up to competition in the carriage of goods, so that they are not unaware of it. The working party controls in many counties where you have tenders for buses, ferries, speedboats – The working party even supports tenders for fast way and air services. We also want to make greater use of it on the railways, in order to get the best that can provide services to deliver services. We want to use the large market of private suppliers in maintenance to provide more services in maintenance. So we see that we need the extra bet we have. So the railway is gradually getting better. We see that there is now a rise in the freight volume being transported by rail, precisely because they say that regularity is better because the railway is better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e989	Governments are known for having a lot of ambitions, and that's good. I also expect that he has ambitions beyond this Council of State period, which hopefully ends in September. I am a little surprised that the Council of State does not have greater ambitions on behalf of its own party programme and impact on its own party programme in any future government negotiations. I am at least proud of the Workers' Party programme and will fight what I can to ensure that as much as possible of what it says will become the future policy of a Workers' Party government. I Prop. 131 S for 2016-2017, currently under consideration by the Transport Committee, the Government is committed to becoming a Nordic market leader in 2025. Then I almost have to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State have ambitions that the NSB will become a Nordic market leader in state or private ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e996	We're going to rule for a long time – that's my ambition. But this government sits until October. Then it may be that our time is extended, but there may be another government with a civil party in place. We invite more than welcome in both the Christian People's Party and the Left. But the government platform on which we run applies for this four-year period. I also believe that the representative Tung knows very well – in all her polemics. That's how we have to relate to this. When the representative, Tung, asks ‘What plans does the government have for the sale of the NSB?’, it is the current government platform I am responding to. My ambition – as I have also mentioned before – is that the Advance Party should be as far as possible and have the greatest possible influence. And I also believe that Norway is better off having a continued bourgeois government, with the Progress Party included, than that we are going back to red-green decay under a labor party-driven government. My ambition for the NSB is very clear: it should be the best railway company we have, not just in the Nordic region, but also in the world. We will do so by doing the restructuring now, and by providing as good a service as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1005	I can't do anything but interpret it there that the council doesn't want to talk out of the fact that the Progress Party actually has an ambition to sell the NSB. So there's nothing to do but to encourage the voters to read the Party Program of Advancement. In 2015, the Stortinget dealt with the announcement of ownership, where the majority of the Stortinget, which then consisted of all parties except the Workers' Party and the Centre, decided to decide on a power of attorney for the sale in the Flytrain to the railway reform was in place. Now the reform is in place, so my question to the Council of State is therefore: When is the government going to promote a case on the sale of the Flytrain, which the majority of the Grand Duchy has actually decided to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1012	I understand that the representative tongue is eager after the government has to present even more matters even more quickly. I believe that we have done more than previous governments. But I also think that the representative tongue knows very well that when it comes to ownership notifications and the like, there is a relatively common structure of when they appear. It is a little strange that the representative tongue really knows the answer to the question she originally asked, namely that there has been a message of ownership where the questions that tongue here raises have already been answered. So this is really going to be raising a debate on the railway, but where I do not put myself as a party person, but as a state councillor. It is my responsibility when I sit in government and get this pulpit. I am not here as Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, but I can inform you about what the Progress Party wants. The most important thing here is that we deliver a better railway than the one that's been before. There are now several departures, there is record growth in the number of travelers, there are actually more goods, and the railway is being maintained instead of it falling due, as we unfortunately saw under the Labour Party regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1022	This question, from the representative of Åsmund Aukrust to the Minister for Economic Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Industry, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1027	‘The Party of Frontiers and the Right makes choices to reduce state ownership. In addition, the right will partially privatise Statkraft. As the main figure of the government in this area, which enterprises the community owns, does the Council of State think should be sold in the next period?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1034	The government’s policy in this area was presented in the owner’s notification. I have shown that in previous questions, and I think the Workers' Party also knows very well. The discussion that the Workers' Party is trying to travel here is actually that state ownership appears much better in all contexts, anyway. That's a position we know from the Workers' Party. But it's a little strange that the times the Workers' Party has ruled, no one has sold more of state ownership than just the Workers' Party. Then it is strange that the Workers' Party now, when they are in opposition, complains that property is sold from Statskog – just the same property that the Workers' Party in the government wanted to be sold. When the Workers' Party ruled, they part-privatized Telenor and Statoil, they sold out Cermaq, they sold out a lot of different companies. Then it's a little strange to hear from the Workers' Party, when we discuss state ownership, this great eagerness that suddenly arises now. What has changed in the Workers' Party, since they now suddenly have a sharp opposite of what they had before? What I think is important is to look at what is the country's primary role. The primary role of the state is to ensure security and security in society; it is to ensure good framework conditions for the development of private business. I think it is good, and it should also be a main reason for having a private market, a private business, which operates in Norway. So it's going to be well regulated by the state, we've arranged for that, and we're going to facilitate that. I very much disagree with the Labour Party approach: that if only the state is allowed to own a company, it seems to be very good. So we see that the companies that were part of the Workers' Party in their time and part-privatized actually do it pretty well today. Does this mean that the Labour Party will now change the policy they themselves have pursued, which actually proved to be working, but which does not fit rhetorically into the debate they now have? Is it so that you want to buy back at Baneservice, in Ambita, in Mesta, in the Veterinary Mission Centre – all these companies that the Workers' Party was with and sold out in its time? Nor do I think it is a smart policy when we look at the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, where the Workers' Party proposes to tax Norwegian business by 4 billion. kr more, just to take the four billion kroner and save them in the oil fund abroad. This means that a tax on Norwegian jobs to invest in foreign jobs. It is a very poor form of approach to how to develop Norwegian enterprises, Norwegian businesses. Through various support schemes and different ambitions, we have shown that we are focusing on the development of a lot different in Norwegian business. Together with the state, we are able to ensure that Norwegian business life is competitive abroad, part of which is also leading in different industries. However, with regard to which enterprises the country should own in the future because it is strategically important, and which have only a financial location, this has been presented in the ownership notification. I think the Labour Party really knows that, and that's where they find the answer to their question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1049	There was a lot to be done here, but the question point is that the Council of State should answer questions, not ask questions or invite them to debate. I think the Council of State is aware of that, and yet he talked for 2 minutes and 50 seconds before he got close to an answer to the question that was asked. My question was: What companies see the Progress Party and the Right as selling out? It is stated in the Party programme of the Progress Party that it is an objective of economic policy to reduce public ownership. The Right Party Programme states that private ownership of state enterprises should be increased. It is clear that the voters are entitled to know which companies it is and the Progress Party is looking for. Is it concrete enterprises, or is it pure ideology – that no matter where you can find increased private ownership, is it good for this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1056	It's a little strange to get the small fine there when we know that he got an answer to his question, and that's that it says in the owner's message, that's where it's listed. So the answer was good. What I'm pointing out, but as the Workers' Party obviously feels badly hit by, is that the Workers' Party should also say what they mean. Will they reverse all the things they've been for before, or not? I also believe that one must be able to see that it is actually possible to have different approaches to different state companies. Some state companies manage natural resources – and they do not have the Progress Party and the Right to be sold out. But it has not been brought with it, since the representative addresses it in the question. When the Right wants to sub-privatize Statkraft, it is about sub-privatizing the part of Statkraft that is engaged in foreign investment in energy. So this is not about Norwegian heritage silver, but about what is purely commercial investment abroad, purely financial investments. Why should Norwegian taxpayers take the risk of losing money by investing abroad? There's a discussion, and it would have been interesting if the Workers' Party were involved and took part in the debate rather than just standing and criticising.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1063	The Council of State is very aware that the Questionnaire will be used to answer questions, not to invite them to debate. Many of the questions asked by the Council of State, I would like to answer, but now it is time for me to ask questions and the Council of State to answer them. I find it interesting when he talks about Statkraft, because I agree that Statekraft needs a predictable framework. But I remember seeing something that was very bad from this government – one of the worst examples of ownership – a late night hour here at Stortinget. To finance the Progress Party's tax cut for Norway's richest people, 5 billion were taken. kr due out of State power overnight, which has meant that they had to put down their offshore sea wind strategy abroad. And then in their party program, Right writes that you have to part-privatize Statkraft in order to ensure predictability. Does the Right-Fremskrit party government think that it itself exercises such poor ownership that the companies are in such poor hands that they have to be sold out in order to ensure predictability?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1072	I find that the Labour Party is quite concerned not to want to talk about its own policy. This applies not only to the main hall but also to the general debate. It would be interesting if we could actually have positions that met each other, instead of just trying to take things out of their context. In the case of Statkraft, or in the case of renewable energy, it is interesting to see the framework conditions for investing in renewable energy in Norway, rather than hanging out in which company invests. We guarantee the ownership of this through -- well, we do, you can shake your head as much as you want -- actually have some basic interest tax and the like. But what's interesting here about renewable energy is: it's now invested approximately. twice as much in renewable energy in Norway as averaged over the last 25 years. That means we've got a doubling in the investment rate during today's government, as the Workers' Party seems to be quite cruel. I think that all those who are concerned with renewable energy should be pleased with a civil policy that actually says yes to concessions, which ensure that depreciation rules get better, and that the green certification system gets better. The working party refuses to realize it – and you shake your head over such claims – but it is still a fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1082	‘In the 2013 National Audit Office’s Corporate Control of Health Companies, they identified a lack of risk and vulnerability analysis of ICT and few exercises related to ICT security. The national competent body shall be the Health Authority. What is their system competence related to ICT security and vulnerability in hospitals, and what role do they play in ensuring more personal critical infrastructure such as pacemakers and insulin pumps used by individual patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1089	ICT has become a key tool in ensuring the proper provision of health and care services to the population. More measures have been put in place to ensure better coordination and governance of ICT developments in the healthcare sector – measures that also strengthen ICT security. After the National Audit Office's company audit in 2013, I have followed up on the issues raised in the field of emergency response. At the company meetings, I have called for the development of emergency plans in the field of ICT, the requirement to carry out risk analyses, the requirement for regular exercises and the requirement to coordinate contingency plans with the relevant actors. Health regions have informed that all health establishments have established emergency plans in the field of ICT. Regular risk and vulnerability analyses are carried out. Regional ICT exercises are carried out with ex-post evaluation and where action is taken when weaknesses are identified. There is currently no separate sectoral health information security oversight. The State Health Authority has overall oversight responsibilities in the sector. The county is empowered to supervise the health services — and is then directly subject to State health supervision. Health oversight shall be the overall responsibility for the supervision of emergency planning and emergency work. The county is responsible for the supervision of health and social preparedness, including the supervision of emergency plans and the work on the required inputs for the provision of sound health and care services, including ICT. In addition to the supervision carried out by the State Health Authority, the Data Protection Authority is responsible for the supervision of ICT security in the interests of privacy. The Directorate of Civil Protection supervises electromedical equipment and the national safety authority supervises it under the Safety Act. It is true that the State Health Authority has a central supervisory role, but the Health Authority is not the central body of competence for preparedness and security in the field of ICT, as the representative appears to assume. It is the Health Directorate that is the central body of expertise for preparedness. The eHealth Directorate is established to contribute to better governance and coordination in the eHealth field, but has no formal responsibility for information security. Norsk Healthnet SF has the operational role of information security in the health and care sectors and operates, among others. HealthCERT, such as monitors traffic on the health network and draws up safety records. We are now at a stage where very much is happening in the field of ICT, including in the health sector. The health sector has paid greater attention to information security, not least through the work of Norwegian Health Network. Increased use and dependence on ICT also require a future look at how the traditional supervisory role needs to be complemented by ICT-related skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1106	I thank the Council of State for a detailed answer. I tried to count the number of bodies involved in different supervision. I came to approx. ten – and I have to say I'm a little unsure about which of those who really have the trouble with this supervision. Yesterday, the Health and Welfare Committee gave its opinion on one of the performance issues of the Council of State and the Right – a Health Sector Investigation Commission, to which the Left supported. But we also proposed an ICT competence in that body – at least in the form of a note. We also need research skills related to ICT competence and digital events in the health sector – they are, as the Council of State said, becoming global in the health sector. But the government parties will not support it. We now see, when Health South-East has received an external report, that there has been a breach of both the Safety Act and the Patient Act. [[President clubs]] Which of these actors shall have the investigative and ICT competence: [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1115	The number is out. Councillor Höie, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1120	It is the Health Authority that has the overall responsibility for supervision in the sector. I feel that ICT and medical devices are now an integral part of patient care, and I believe it is important that it is the Health Authority that still has the overall responsibility for supervision in the sector. As I said in my previous answer, it is important that we look at the kind of skills they have in the field of ICT in order to do this job correctly. As far as the Commission of Inquiry is concerned: it will not be replaced by supervision, it will be added and will work more system-oriented to identify the causes of serious incidents — for failure to occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1127	I thank you for your answer. With so many actors and a new actor on the move, it is a bit incomprehensible that Health South-East has gone abroad – actually outside the law for this – and that none of the supervisory bodies have given them any idea of stopping that defect earlier, but enough about it. The next question is: Who in Norway approves the safety clearance for pacemakers, insulin pumps, pain pumps and other connected to the Internet? Very well-known people who know both ICT and who have had pacemaker surgery say that the health professionals have not said anything – as a patient they have not received any information that it is possible to hack such a pacemaker. Who is competent both to supervise and to approve it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1136	It is the Data Protection Authority that is responsible for the supervision of ICT security, based on data protection considerations. It's kind of cross-sectoral. It is the Directorate of Civil Protection that supervises electromedical equipment and it is the Health Inspectorate that has overall responsibility for the supervision of the service. I feel that the report presented today reveals very serious issues. We are now going to go into the report and evaluate all the pages it reveals. I also believe that the report raises important questions of principle, which go beyond the agreement that Health South-East has concluded on the provision of ICT services. I would therefore like to launch a national work on health and care information security, with which professional organisations and trustees will also be invited.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1152	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1160	I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge the following questions: ‘Recently, the media have reported that children are sent to school for longer and shorter periods in countries such as Somalia, Turkey, Pakistan, Kenya and more. This means that children lose contact with friends and Norwegian-speaking environments and that education and integration are weakened. In some cases they are also subjected to violence and other pressures in extreme Koran schools. How will the Council of State ensure that we have sufficient knowledge of how many children are sent out of the country and of their fate, and what action does he think we should take to better counteract this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1169	Let me start by saying that I think it is very good that the problem is raised. I will give honor to the representative Bohemian to do so. I would also like to say that I think it is very nice that he is in it that sometimes is completely incalculable, unreasonable and threatening criticism, which we have been able to read about. There are two parts of this answer. One is about school, the other is about what the rest of the system is doing. The most important part of this is that the Directorate for Integration and Diversity, the IMDI, has as its job, and works actively with, preventing children and young people from being sent to and left abroad. The IMDI is working on disseminating information and improving the competence of those who meet the families in question in the first line. If we are to better catch up and prevent children from being sent to and left abroad against their will, it is absolutely vital. The government’s new action plan against negative social control, forced marriages and sexual mutilation announces that this effort will be reinforced. We know that some children are sent to schools in countries like Somalia, Turkey and Pakistan. There might be several reasons for that. Some parents probably view it as an opportunity to become better acquainted with culture, religion and values in their country of origin. There is nothing wrong with that, although we have to remember that this is Norwegian children. Worse still, it is because you are afraid that your children will become too integrated. Then it's a contribution to depriving children of the opportunity to be with friends, to being part of the Norwegian community. In very worst cases, this is documented, children are subjected to strict discipline — of course, totally unacceptable — and, in some cases, violence as well. We don't have exact figures on how many students are being taken out of basic education. Many people do not meet for training – 207 children in 2017. If the school receives a confirmation that students are staying elsewhere than in Norway, they are not covered by the law of the training law and the obligation to attend primary school. That's the difficult balance right there. It is important that municipalities take responsibility for the children being trained. But I would like to stress that there is nothing in our law today that prohibits children from leaving school and sending them to school in another country. If you were to do something about it, you might have to do something about the law. But there are also — and here there may be problems in the border country, which may also be banned — students who are likely to be taken out and sent to schools where Norwegian children have nothing to do. The Education Directorate also has a supervisor: minority language children and young people at school in their country of origin, which I encourage everyone to use. There is also step-by-step guidance on how to deal with these kinds of situations. It is available in several languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1180	I would like to thank the Council of State for its good words and for a good answer. I would like to stress that the problem has a large scale. Only last year there were 31 children who were helped home from Somalia by the Norwegian authorities and our embassy, who were there against their will. According to a report from the Institute for Social Research, ‘Transnational growth’, it was about 1 250 Norwegian children in Somalia in 2014. So the problem has a large extent. I heard the Secretary of State Per Sandberg, the Minister for Immigration and Integration, talk about the need for new grips. A grip that I think you should look at is: Children have a right of consent from the age of 12. If the child is taken abroad and has to remain there without consent, can he be regarded as abstinence under the criminal law? I am aware that the Council of State is not the Minister of Justice, but I believe that there is a need here to coordinate several departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1191	I am sure the Minister for Immigration and Integration will assess it. It's not my responsibility, as the representative says. There is no one who believes it is a problem to go to school for a year in another country, even if you are Norwegian, and even if your family may live in Norway — that is not the problem. The problem is that you are sent to schools that have conditions and ways of operating that are fundamentally contrary to what we think is good child care. That's the issue. We have become more aware of this, and I believe we are doing a lot. Voluntary organisations also make an incredibly important effort to bring children home and help them home when they alert. I believe that continuing to carry on the information work and also to carry out attitude work among parents is crucial. But this – the attitude side of it – is something these minority groups need to take a certain responsibility for themselves as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1200	I also thank you for the additional reply. A problem issue, for example: Red Cross has taken up with me, is that they have contact with children in Iraq, who have no own money, who have been deprived of passports, and there is no exception for children, so when they are out of the country for two years, they are also temporarily deprived of residence permits here in Norway. So they're completely innocent and they have to get to the embassy themselves for something to happen. What I think the government should look at as a follow-up, was to get a better overview of what children live in which countries, and that embassies in several countries could take the same initiative as our embassy in Kenya, to be more active in investigating how it goes with the children, what kind of schools they go to, whether it's in Iraq, Somalia, Kenya, Turkey, Iran or Pakistan, so that you take a greater responsibility. What I'm asking about here is actually coordination between several departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1211	I'm going to take it with me, and, as I said, this is partly affected by the strategy that the government came up with not too long ago. Just to underline it: if you just take your child out of school, without giving a message, you break compulsory training, and then you can be punished for it, for example. with fines. The problem really arises if you do everything after the book, if you do it formally correctly and write your child out of school and send it to the home country. Then there is nothing in the law that says that it is forbidden, at least not in that part of the law that I am responsible for. But I have great sympathy for and agree with what the representative of Bohemia says, that this cannot be seen as simply sending the child abroad. That's not the problem. The problem here is that you go to schools that, many of them, run counter to what are fundamental values in Norway, and how we want children to be treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1223	‘The children’s ombudsman’s professional report ‘Without purpose and meaning?’ shows that the PPT does not provide adequate guidance to schools. Expert judgements are characterised by standard formulations and are little concrete in specifying the objectives, content, scope and organisation of the training and the competences required. The students are often not followed up by the PPT after expert judgement has been given. What will the Council of State do to clarify the requirements of the PPT’s work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1230	I believe the Children's Ombudsman's report was timely, important and correct. It shows something that was not unknown, but that is very serious, among other things. that the recommendations of the PP service are not sufficiently concrete in terms of objectives, content, scope, organisation and competence. It is also caught under the supervision of the county officials in 2016. Both reports give cause for concern. The supervision also shows that the processing time is still a long number of locations, despite the fact that professionals in the PPT reported that about 80 pst in 2013. of the time went to expert assessments, testing and investigation. But time is not itself a quality indicator, it's the content that counts. The strategy for continuing training in the PPT is a separate initiative for increased organisational and competence development in the PPT. It shall last for a period of five years, from 2013 to 2018, and has offered to several staff and managers of the PPT facilities for further training. In addition, the Education Directorate, in cooperation with the KS, has developed indicative quality guidelines to contribute to the quality development of the PP service. It is pointed out, among other things: that the PP service, kindergarten and school should have clarified what a good expert judgement is and that the PP service should know what promotes good, safe and inclusive kindergarten and school environments. I'm going to ask the Education Directorate to follow up on how it works with understanding and following up on those criteria. The Education Directorate shall also carry out a model test in selected regions from the autumn of 2017 to better exploit the overall resources of Statped, County and local level, including PPT, and thus enhance the quality of the supply to children and young people with special needs. In this area, I think we need more than this. I have recently set up an expert group for children and young people in need of special organisation, and I have done so because I believe there is a lot of evidence that special education is not good enough and that the system is not working well enough. These include: make proposals that can provide a better basis for all those working in kindergarten, school and PPT to choose the most appropriate instruments for the children concerned. They should be able to make legislative changes; they should be able to show municipalities where this works; and what those municipalities do. That report will be published in March 2018. The work is led by Professor Thomas Nordahl. I want to grasp the recommendations of the expert group when they are available, but that does not mean that we cannot take action until that time. Among other things, I have asks the Children’s Ombudsman in detail what measures they think can be implemented in the short term to follow up the report they have submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1245	Thank you for a good answer. I believe, like the Council of State, that it is very important that the Children's Ombudsman has produced this report and is able to draw such a great deal of attention to this very important area. There are more than 50,000 young people who are currently receiving special education. The challenge within the PPT is one of the things that are missing, but as the Council of State says, it's not just what's going on. It is clear that we must have skilled people to make these reports, and it is serious if it bears the mark of a lot of clips and glue etc. Everyone is concerned about early school work. What is the challenge is that approx. 70 pst. by those receiving special education today, taught by unskilled persons. That is also a major concern. I wonder what the Council of State thinks – he said something about it – in terms of continuing training for those who are in the PPT. What kind of continuing education, and how does he want to put emphasis on the master's degree in special education – could he say a little about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1252	When I talked about continuing education, it is actually a bet that came under the previous government, which the red-greens started, and which we still have. So there's a touching consensus for once. The government has also made a proposal to deal with the issue in Stortingen now — the learning message — that schools, the pupils, should have special pedagogical skills, and that we consider that it should be legalised. It'll be important. In the new training course, there is also the possibility to take a dip in special pedagogics and also to take a master's degree in special pedagogics. There will also be an evaluation in June of the major Statped reform, and that is important, because it is the main contribution of the state to these children. In the case of non-qualified teachers teaching, teachers are responsible for teaching. I think the most crucial thing is how that happens. To have an assistant inside the classroom, that might be okay, then the teacher has the responsibility for all the students, but if it's the way the student is taken out of the classroom and put alone with a bad job with a non-skilled assistant, it's a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1261	Unfortunately, this is what happens in many cases, and that is what the Children’s Ombudsman has also revealed that those who are entitled to special education are often taught by an assistant today. That's what makes it despairing for these students, because they feel that they get the lack of expectations from their teachers and those who teach them, so they don't get their potential either. It's very bad. The Council of State refers to the report that will come in June – that is what he said – the evaluation of Statped. It's going to be very exciting. But I wonder if the Council of State can suggest something about the way he wants to follow up that particular report, and about that, for example. Some action plan for special education — or how he intends to do so — will be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1268	With regard to the report that comes in June, that is, the evaluation of the Great State Speed Reform, I do not know what is going on in it, simply because it has not yet arrived. But what I want to be most interested in, is if you've managed to fulfill the intentions behind the reform. The idea was that Statped should, through a reorganization, be able to help more children and work more systemically, as it is called, not just working towards single children, but working on mobilising the entire municipality to help the children. At the same time, I meet parents who are concerned about and believe that Statped has withdrawn, and that they get less help than before. So that's what I want to be most concerned about. When this expert committee delivers its position, and also in particular before that, I will not rule out that there may be a kind of strategy, but I think the most important thing then will be simply to follow up the sample recommendations — assess it quickly, and then follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1285	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1297	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1305	‘The sale of state forest properties has covered more than 400000 dekars. The new 30 000 covers have been put out for sale. The largest property, Bjørå on the Highlands, is 10,000 dekar. This is more than the sale of scattered forest parcels for which the Storting has opened up, rather than an ideological sale of community property. It plays out public access to hunting and fishing. NJFF Nord-Trøndelag has demanded a stop at the sale. Why does the Council of State challenge future opportunities for hunting and fishing and outdoor life?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1312	I thank you for the question, which is open on the wrong premises. As I used to have black representative Kjerkol in the ordinary Question Time, last November, is not the premise of the question. First of all, I do not agree that the sale to Statskog puts the future possibilities of hunting, fishing and outdoor life at stake. There are two main reasons for it: Most of the forest in Norway is owned by private people. On these areas, there is good access to hunting, fishing and outdoor life, and all-man rights that we enjoy in Norway, debt on both private and state grounds. The County Forest Arronage Hall is smaller than the entity’s purchased land since 2010, and there is only a small part of the total area of the enterprise. This means that State forest should continue to be an important provider of hunting, fishing and outdoor life for the general public, even in the years to come. I've previously said that I believe the Labour Party's opposition to the sale that they themselves were adopting is pure symbolism. I'll repeat that today. It was the Workers' Party that wanted State Forest to carry out an extensive arrondering room. Under the red-green government, State Forest bought a total area of about 1.1 million covered with forest and land. The government of Statskog meant this open for an extensive arrondering room of scattered forest properties that the company already owned, in South and Middle Norway. It seemed Stortinget was a good idea, and they encouraged Statskog to also assess the hall in Nordland and Troms. From the outset, it was planned to sell about 600 000 decs, but after a thorough assessment this government opened up so that the sale could be expanded by 150000 decs. So it's like we've now sold about 400,000 dean – less than the Labour Party originally ordered. When we finish this arrondissement hall, Statskog will still be a major landowner – a larger landowner now than in 2010 – and the ownership structure of forestry will be based so that it actually provides a better basis for the profitable operation of forest resources. We see that with this government's forestry policy, which is both about giving the possibility of rational ownership and about investing in the development of infrastructure and making it easier for the timber transport to come forward, the logging increases. This has worked after the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1334	Efficient forest management has a one-off increase in demand. Then it was just to be lacking that the Council of State does not follow it up. But when it comes to sales beyond what is well-founded in more efficient forestry, the Council of State fails to respond. I believe that the voters and the Norwegian people have a right to know what the Council of State thinks about the part of State Forest's business that is about managing outland for the best of the community. This property in my homelands has a relatively small share of productive forest and will be a – as it were – small significant contribution to more efficient forest management. But in terms of hunting and fishing opportunities, it's big. So what does the Council of State think about the role of Statskog as manager of the outfield on behalf of all of us?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1341	In recent years, we have seen from the Labour Party that they want to put most policy changes in reverse. What surprises me more is that they want to reverse their own policy on this sale. But we're always going to be able to figure that out. However, this is a full opportunity, even at the time of the disposal of property, to continue to have the right to hunt and fish, but then from other owners – if the new owner, for example, does. to rent out. But in general, one would believe that the Labour Party believes that it is only on public property hunting, fishing and outdoor life can take place. On the contrary, most of these foreign resources are not publicly owned. They're owned by private people, and that's where people experience recreation, that's where they live outdoor life, that's where they fish, and that's where they hunt, to a large extent. So this is a constructed problem. Generally speaking, the possibility of hunting and fishing is well preserved, also through this arrondissement hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1348	I'm going to give the Council of State a "cry" for him to answer the question for the first time in this change of words. In this answer he struck his legs under what he said in his first answer, namely that the question was asked on the wrong premise. So this is an ideologically justified sale. The Council of State believes that it should be a private matter to make the areas of Norwegian land available for fishing, outdoor activities and hunting. As is currently the case on that property, Bjøra, there are both large game hunting and small game hunting, which State Forest well manages and makes available through its website inatur.no, and not least there are fishing rights. So there is a great ideological distinction between the party of the Council of State and the Workers' Party in making our common ground available for general movement and recreation. Why do you maintain that this is something that the Workers' Party has started?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1355	Because that's true, and I think that's actually a pretty good starting point when we discuss things in Stortinget. The Labour Party in the government would set in motion an arrondissement hall of 600 000 decs. So far it is sold approx. two thirds of that. That the Labour Party has turned around, even on this question, we'd rather accept. But if this arrondissement hall was started on the basis of an ideological foundation, it's not my ideological foundation, but the Labour Party, which is the reason why this sale started at all. I think it was a good reason to start the landing hall of Statskog, and I believe that the Norwegian private ownership is still an important value to last. I am absolutely sure that in the future, too, we will experience that people will be able to use the foreign resources we have, for hunting, fishing and outdoors, on both private and public grounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1363	‘Forest industries have a high potential for industrial development and further processing, not least in woodland Hedmark. State forest as a major actor should be an engine in developing one of the most important industries of the future of green gold. If the Council of State agrees that we should further develop the forest industry, why does it carry out a large-scale sale in Statskog?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1370	It's because it's actually going to help achieve the goal that the representative is asking for in the introduction. I fully agree that it is a good idea – which the Labour Party also meant – both for State Forest, for private forestry, for forestry and for society to continue this arrondering hall. There is a large potential for increased value creation, not least in the forest district of Hedmark. This is one of the reasons why we have now for the first time in 18 years produced a forest report that is about strengthening the foundations of Norwegian forest resources. She builds on the policy already pursued by the government, and largely supports the majority of the population. It continues to help focus on infrastructure development and reduce the cost of the transport of timber. We have e.g. the double contribution to infrastructure on both roads and berths after we took over the government power. But the arrondissement hall of Statskog is also important. The reason is that it provides a more efficient forest operation in Statskog, which is a company that contributes to the state budget and with it also builds the basis for our common future and well-being. It also helps private forest owners to experience increasing sense of arrears on their forest plots, and cutting can increase. If we're going to trigger the amazing forest resources we have, for profitable value creation in Hedmark and in other important states in our country, we're actually content to have private forest owners who find profitability in it. It's happening to a very large extent, and what we see from these arrondering rooms is that 90 pst. the sale goes to other forest owners in their own municipality – in the municipality where the forest property is already located – to forest owners in the neighbouring municipality or to the municipalities. This shows that the policy we have pursued, implemented through this arronding room, for which the Labour Party used to be, has actually helped us to get more rational units of operation in forestry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1379	When it comes to creating jobs and being innovative, I just remind you that Statskog is now part of the new Norwegian Wood Cluster cluster, and the goal is to innovate, for example. modern wooden construction in Hedmark. So the possibilities are there all the time. But is it so to understand that the Council of State believes it would have been a better solution to sell it, that State Forest is not good enough to deal with this, that one should reach all these goals, should it have been in private ownership rather than that State Forest had owned it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1384	It is Statskog himself who has given advice to increase the arrondissement hall in addition to the 600 000 jobs that the Labour Party initiated and that we did not sell out more than two thirds of. It's a wonderful position to be in having to overinterpret the Workers' Party that their own 2013 arguments are no longer good. However, I have to make a last try. What this actually triggers is a state forest that can be profitable, that can develop the forest property they're left with, which is more forest than they owned in 2010. It will also lead to more local forest owners getting better arrounded area and increasing harvesting, as they have done in recent years. It will help to lay the foundations for the development of a new Norwegian industry based on forest resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1391	I understand we're not going to do this. But then I want to return to some of the things that the representative Kjerkol had in mind, namely the rights to hunting and fishing. The council says it won't change anything about selling, i.e. having access to hunting, fishing and recreation. Norway's Hunters and Fishermen's Association is at least concerned, and they say: ‘We have no guarantees as to how hunting and fishing will be managed on a private property. If we sell away public land, we sell the guarantee to hunt and fish." Can the Council of State guarantee that a sale and private ownership do not go beyond hunting and fishing rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1401	For every single forest dough, I can't do that. What I can guarantee is that in the future there will also be a public available forest area that you can use for hunting, fishing and outdoors. In any case, I can say that even today is essentially the area used for hunting, fishing and outdoor activities, owned by private landowners and made available to those who do not own it. It is quite right when the Hunter and Fisherman Association says that we cannot guarantee it for every single forest dough. It will be up to the local forest owner. In fact, the buyer has to decide. There's every reason to be honest about that. But we have to remember – and at least I think we can be a few things about – that it has a intrinsic value that Norwegian private landowners actually make these areas available to others. It's a fantastic quality in Norwegian society, a quality I'm absolutely sure will be passed on in very many of these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1410	‘In an overview from Statskog we can read that per. On 2 May 2017, a concession was granted to sell 24 properties in Uppland. And after this, there is now another 252 covers in Wågang put out for sale. The Workers' Party and Oppland Arbeiderparti agree, among other things, with Norway's Hunters' and Fishermen's Association that there is more than enough now. Why will the Council of State not listen to these recordings and allow consideration of the interests of the community to mean more than partialistic belief that sales are always good?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1417	For the third question in a row, I will start by thanking you for the question. So I'm going to remind you that the Workers' Party once had a good suggestion, easy to start this sale and sell up to 600,000 pieces. Now I've sold about two thirds of that. So what was a good idea from the Labour Party, easy to sell out to the Arronningssalal 600,000 dekar, now the Labour Party feels that is a bad idea, when we sell 400,000 dekar. The only thing that's changed in this is not the partideological leaders of today's government, it's probably a 180-degree rotation of the Labour Party. That's what's new. But the Labour Party had a good idea when they were actually busy managing our forest resources better – both for Statskog to have an effective company to operate, which can deliver surpluses to the state treasury, which in turn allows us to build up the welfare of the Workers' Party in general, and to ensure that private, Norwegian landowners get to buy the area for increased and better arrears on their own forest land. It can increase cutting and create values in Norway. Not only in Norway, but in Norwegian districts. That's the whole main argument for why this makes sense. It provides more value creation from Norwegian forests, both from the public company and from private forest owners. So I'm going to repeat it again: 90 pst. of the ownership are purchased by local forest owners in their own municipality, by the municipality itself or by a forest owner in the neighbouring municipality. This area, this hall, helps to strengthen the Norwegian private ownership – the Norwegian private ownership we need in a number of sectors if we are to increase the value of our natural resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1426	In any case, the Progress Party has a completely different story than us in selling common ownership. We remember that from the mid-1970s when Carl I. Hagen wanted us to sell significant oil rights in the North Sea. I remember it. It's about what a seller is about. There is a great potential in future industries based on the shadow, which the representative Sønsterud was also in, as bio-nutrients, pulleys and other industries, which I would say could be easier to extract from this potential when it's the community that owns. It is also such that our common ownership in Statskog ensures that many hunters, fishermen and outdoor stakeholders get good natural experiences in forests and mountains. State forest is also the largest provider of elk hunting, and there is a fair distribution. There are no acquaintances and the wallet that decide. Does the Council of State see the advantages that I point to, by the fact that this is still in common possession?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1435	If we are to talk about the sale of state companies and state ownership, I regret to say that today's government has in no way been as effective as the Labour Party in 2001. We're starting to stretch, if it's going to be a measure. But that's not it. We sell what makes sense to sell, and we sell it mainly – which I have already been in – to Norwegian, private landowners. What I mean is a value. We are more likely to exploit our forest resources – exploiting our natural resources – when they are based on local ownership around Norwegian districts. Therefore, I believe that both the basis for operating these forests efficiently, but also to make hunting and fishing available, will be well served through this arrondering hall, to which the Labour Party itself took the initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1440	Then I have to ask the Council of State: Is it groundless by the Hunter and Fisher League to be concerned? Back to the will to sell. It's with the slide in many ways like with the oil, that one has to be a little bit long-term in the way of thinking. Was that a good idea of Carl I. Hagen in 1975? You're not the Minister of Oil and Energy, but was it a good idea of Carl I. Hagen in 1975 to sell significant oil rights in the North Sea, and is it a good idea to sell more ice today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1447	It was a better idea when the Workers' Party proposed to start this arrondering hall, than it was selling the rights to the oil fortune. I think we can recognize that. That means that my primary starting point now is to continue the work that the Labour Party started, and I still have a third left, based on the original proposals of the Labour Party to sell 600,000 jobs. This discussion of three questions shows more than that the Labour Party is once again in full retreat. What a mine is right in position, dare a mine is not right in the opposition. There may be one of the main reasons why the Workers' Party should continue to do so – to remain in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1457	‘The trustees of the head office of Statoil at Forus in Stavanger are concerned that head office functions are being moved from Stavanger and that the head office is becoming confused. What will the Council of State do to meet these concerns?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1464	I attended the Statoil Future Energy Forum in Stavanger on Monday, and there, based on the media releases, a number was made by the group management that there is no doubt about where the head office of Statoil is – it is in Stavanger. It is emphatically fixed through several processes also here in Stortinget. Our business objective by the state with the ownership of Statoil is clear, but there is also an additional dimension here of a national anchoring of head office functions. It has been fixed both in the ownership message and in the debate about Hydro's petroleum activity as it entered Statoil in 2007. At the same time, it is important that the State that owns expresses clear expectations that Statoil operates effectively and has cost focus at all times, like the rest of the industry. It is essential for Statoil’s competitiveness and is important for them to continue to gradually streamline operations and reduce costs, as has been the focus of the entire oil and gas industry in recent years. Statoil is systematically and specifically working on this. It has, among other things, contributed to a reduction in the number of Statoil staff in Norway by around 2600 people from 2013 to 2017, and the reduction has been achieved through voluntary instruments. This efficiency programme has also been linked to Statoil’s staff and support functions, and it has helped to reduce the number of employees also in Stavanger. But there is no doubt that the location of the head office is in Stavanger. The main functions of the company will lie there, and on direct questions from the Ministry of Oil and Energy of Statoil, it will be emphasised that no concrete processes or plans are yet in place that will affect staffing at the head office of Forus.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1473	I miss a slightly clearer response from the Council of State to those concerns, because my question is not about the general ownership, but about this particular situation of the manoeuvrings that we see now. In particular, the downsizing of staff functions has hit Stavanger's head office hard. Statoil had 6,000 employees in Stavanger a few years ago, and now one is down to 4,300 – according to the trade unions. The figures from the analysis company ECON also show that Stavanger has had bigger cuts in crews than Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim in the last three years. With that backing, the call for the government from the trusted leaders was quite clear: if Stavanger does not get new jobs, the head office will be confused. This is where the state council and government sit with several tools - one can grab a will. My question to the Progress Party and the Right is then whether one has the will to take these grips. Will the Council of State work to get Stavanger to take on new jobs so that the head office does not get confused?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1478	It is important that the State as a major owner of Statoil acts as a professional owner and that the issue of job location within the group is the responsibility of the Statoil Board and the group management. We have to have that division of labour, and I have full confidence that Statoil will perform the functions on Forus and in relation to the head office in a good way in the overall work they are doing to strengthen Statoil's competitiveness both in terms of the activity on Norwegian base and in terms of the international perspective. So the government won't go in and override the decisions related to the downfall process or the location of functions. What we're clear about is that the head office, and then it follows from it also the most important head office functions, is located at Stavanger and is going to be there in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1483	We fully agree that of course you have to be a professional owner. It is not a matter of overarching, but of being clear – in the process where one has seen fewer employees in Stavanger now – that development cannot continue. One has a tool one can use, even as a professional owner, where one can give clear signals. So my challenge to the Council of State is whether he can say anything about whether one has used this ownership in Statoil, to give clear signals in the process that is now, and whether one has said something special to Statoil in the ongoing downsizing process just to ensure that these headquarters functions in Stavanger are maintained – and not weakened, as one has seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1488	It is important that Statoil is present in several places in the country. They have an important job to do, not least in North Norway as regards the further development of our oil provinces in the Norwegian Sea and in the Barents Sea. It has also been clearly expressed from Stortinget that you want Statoil's presence in the country as well as at the headquarters in Stavanger and the former offices you have had in Bergen and elsewhere. On the part of the government, there are no clear marshalling grounds on how the organisation should be set up, in addition to what I said instead, namely that the head office is located in Stavanger – it is also the statutes attached. That means that the main functions of Statoil are to be located in Stavanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1496	‘NorthConnect has now applied for a new cable link between Norway and the United Kingdom. In the past, the government has clearly stressed the need to gain experience with the cables currently under construction before considering any new applications. Is the government standing by its previous promises, or will the government instead facilitate the processing of this application before such experience has been reaped?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1503	The policy relating to the establishment of international connections for electricity is set out in both the Energy Communication and the changes in the law on ownership of international connections. The planned increase in exchange capacity between Norway and the countries around us up to 2021 will have an impact on the operation of the Norwegian power system. Developments will also lead to an increase in system operating costs. It is therefore necessary to gain experience and carry out thorough analyses before any new compounds are established. So the policy it's referred to in the representative's question here, it's firm. However, long lead times relate to the development of foreign tables. There should therefore be no problem or contradiction between the need to gain experience and, where appropriate, the development and evaluation of new projects by the authorities. NorthConnect has applied for a cable construction concession to Scotland, but has not yet applied for a foreign bond issue, and both concessions are necessary for the NorthConnect project. The Ministry will therefore await the processing of an application for a foreign exchange session request and the need for experience and analysis must be considered as part of the concession treatment that is then ahead of us. It is too early to say when any concession treatment could be completed. It depends on how much time we need for the work related to both experience and analysis. What we are clear from the Ministry of Oil and Energy is that, as a system operator, Statnet must be involved and contribute to the socio-economic assessments on the basis of which any foreign bond issue application is made, even if the project is initiated by others other than Statnett. As system administrator, Statnett is responsible for the operation and development of the power system in a socially rational manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1514	In reality, it is difficult to gain experience before the connections under construction are actually established and that one also looks at how the load, if any, on existing power supply in Norway will function. Do I understand the Council of State right now when he says that one will wait for a treatment and further analysis pending that experience, that it will then mean that the two cables that are now under construction must first be operational before one can proceed with a concessional treatment, an assessment, of the application submitted from NorthConnect?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1521	We will consider how much practical experience is needed in relation to existing cables along the way in the treatment of any complete application from NorthConnect. After all, good analyses are already linked to the two cables that are now under construction against the UK and against Germany. There is one basis for considering a third cable, if any. In addition, it will be possible, based on estimates, to look at how a third cable will turn out in terms of the total capacity of our network and transfer to the rest of the world. In addition, there are some uncertainties that will have to be addressed in the assessment, considering Brexit – although we do not think it should have any particular significance for cable to the UK – and we need to look at further transmission capacity between Northern Germany and southern Germany, which is important for our cable towards Germany.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1528	I'm a little worried about the answer that's now coming, because now one says that one will start processing an application, an assessment of NorthConnect as a project long before one sits with experience after the two cables that are now being built are operational. So that's all cause for concern. And it might seem that the goal is to facilitate more cables before you have gained experience with those who are under construction. There is a reason to actually call for a warning related to the process that the Council of State is now talking about. Then there are also other significant elements related to the experience already gained, where relatively large revenues are reaped, which are now returning to the network and reducing network costs. Will all the principles underlying the operation of the external link today be continued as a basis, in any assessment related to a new application and how will this be applied to the Norwegian energy system?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1537	Firstly, there is no need for concern. What I have said is that when a specific application is made, the department will naturally start dealing with it. When it is finalised, it will depend on the needs we have in the process to both gain experience and to collect analyses and other evidence. So it's too early to say something concrete about today, and is what I have expressed in my main response, initially. So to the specific question of whether there are extraordinary incomes associated with these foreign tables. In the context of the presentation of the revised national budget, we have explained to the Storting how any extraordinary income can be attributed to the Community, while avoiding network customers being involved in and paying costs for the international connections and possible construction contributions. One way to do this is to set a ceiling on revenue, and if the real revenue exceeds that limit, to be allocated to the State network, and it will in turn contribute to reducing the transmission network tariff for customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1544	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-24.ana.ud284e1558	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
