ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e88	Honourable co-representatives! Former representative of the Central Party of Tove Kari Viken passed away on 2 December, after a long period of illness. She was 74 years old. Tove Kari Viken was born in Oppdal in 1942 and grew up on Kongsvoll, where father Henry Hanssen was a railway telegraphist. Kongsvoll embossed her, both as a man and a politician. Throughout his adult life, the Week was concerned with business, especially the combination of business, travel and agriculture. But it was a school thing that led her into politics. In 1968, the closure of Vollan School was a local theme in the election campaign. This wouldn't be the baby's mother sitting quietly watching. She got involved in the Central Party, where she was going to have a long political career. From 1975 to 1983, Tove Kari Viken was elected mayor of Oppdal, and from 1987 to 1989 she was the rapporteur of the local community. Schools, children's conditions and the future would be important things for the Viking. To the Nations she once said: My whole political commitment comes from my children. How will they get it in the years to come? The cove was a woman sac, but did not look at itself as a ‘red sock’. She was a leading woman in several areas, and she was very concerned, among other things. the legal conditions of the farmer’s wife. In 1981 she became the Bondelag's first female board member, and she also became the first permanently elected female board member of the Center Party from the South-Trondelag. From 1981 to 1989, Viken was the alternate representative of Stortinget, and from 1989, Tove Kari Viken was the representative of Stortings. At the same time, she became head of the Center Party's Student Union and a member of the Party's Central Government. The week was re-elected in 1993, after a fall-off election in which the Centre Party received 18.3 p.m. by the votes of the Southern Trøndelag. In both periods at Stortinget, Viken was a member of the Social Committee, and when she did not get into the Stortinget elections in 1997, she became a political adviser in social affairs in the Social and Health Ministry for the following major period. In addition, she was at Stortinget. Even after she had given herself up as a national politician, she continued to commit herself. In 2006 she was in the news picture again, as she was at the head of demonstrations against the defense's testing of class bombs in the Hierkin shooting field. We remember the Tove Kari Week with great gratitude for the work she put down for the Storting, and brightens the peace of her memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e113	The representative Martin Kolberg, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. They called the alternates for East Agder County Lene Langemyr and for More and Romsdal County Tove-Lise Torve now take the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the Left on sick leave of the representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, with effect from 21 February and until further notice from the Central Party Group on sick leave for the representative of Geir Pollestad from 21 February until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Uppland State: Indigenous Thon Hagaseth For the Rogaland County: Sofie Margrethe Selvikvåg
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e164	Ingest Thon Hagaseth and Sofie Margrethe Selvikvåg are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e176	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e181	On behalf of Mr. Kirsti Bergstø and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure that foster home allowances do not give rise to any loss of social security for foster parents in the event of sickness or unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e187	The representative of Mr Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e192	Well, from the previous presentation, that might indicate that we're getting a majority for this. I wish, on behalf of the representatives of Abid Q. Raja, Terje Breivik and myself, to promote a proposal to introduce financial security and predictability for foster parents receiving benefits from Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e197	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e217	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e226	I would like to begin by thanking everyone in the Committee for a very good cooperation in this matter and, not least, refer to the broad opening given to the Committee's vote. This is a matter which, because of the wide opening up, has really been very good and easy to unload in the committee. That's why I'm going to try to be pretty short in this post. The legislative proposal will primarily ensure that it is easier to get into work in Norway with the professional competence of your home country. This also applies, of course, to Nordics taking training in other European countries. The common legislation provided by the law thus provides for predictability and not least for an effective authorisation process. At the same time, professional certification and recognition requirements ensure that competence is not the same as the right to pursue the profession with such specific requirements, approvals and certification needs. In this way, I would say that all the necessary considerations are taken into account in order to have a very good and mobile labour market on the one hand, where quality and effective and predictable approvals are achieved, while at the same time obtaining a European Professional Card and caring for the needs of certain countries for specific certifications and specific approvals on the other. The Professional Qualifications Directive is important for the free movement of persons. The purpose of the Directive is to ensure access for persons with professional qualifications from an EEA Member State to pursue a regulated profession in Norway which the person is competent to pursue in his or her home Member State. Similarly, the Directive gives the Nordics the right to work in other European countries. I look forward to further incorporating the law into Norway and how we thereby contribute to ensuring the necessary mobility in a European labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e237	The Workers' Party supports the proposed legislation that ensures the implementation of the Professional Qualifications Directive in Norwegian law. The case rapporteur has given a good review of the case, but let me add a few more comments to it from our side. We believe it is important that professionals with professional qualifications from the EU or an EEA country can quickly get into work in another EEA or EU country. However, Norway must, of course, use the option of the Directive to provide compensatory measures in cases where education is shorter or inadequate in relation to Norwegian education, good quality assurance and verification of foreign certificates of competence in line with Norwegian vocational training. We have noticed that organisations such as LO, NHO and UNIO and the Labour Inspectorate and the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness support the legislative proposal, and some have concerns about, for example: social dumping, safety and disadvantaged vocational training in Norway, we believe, are excessive. Not all courses in Norway are the best in the world. There are many good educations in many other countries. We live in a time when people travel, move, and immigrate. The Nordics, like many others, live, work and study in another country, and we encourage you to go out in the study period because we want more cultural exchanges and international cooperation. Therefore, many students take part of their studies abroad. We should also listen to ANSA when they consider it essential that the Directive be implemented in an efficient and appropriate way to ensure Norway's skilled workforce in the coming years, and they say that this law will enable Norwegian youth to study in Europe well aware that they can come home to work afterwards. For the Workers' Party, it is important to safeguard the individual's ability to contribute to society. We have a basic belief that all people want to contribute to the community they belong to, they want to work, earn money, live independent lives, support themselves, use their abilities, experience mastery and succeed with what they can. Some come to our country to look for work because we have job vacancies in some industries. Many of these are well-educated, and they want to use the knowledge and competences they have. It is very beneficial for society to get these into work as quickly as possible, and therefore we need to build up the obstacles we can. The amendment of the law that we are adopting today, hopefully, is a new step towards achieving that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e252	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough and thorough examination of the matter. It's an important piece of law that's being taken up here. The purpose of the law is to facilitate the exercise of the profession for which they are competent in the home Member State by professionals who are nationals of an EEA State or Switzerland. This shall be in line with professionals who have acquired their qualifications in Norway. This right applies only to the profession in question. An EEA citizen will have the right to pursue the profession, while a third-country national will only have the right to have his application evaluated. It is important to note that the legislative proposal does not apply to professions covered by the Health Personnel Act and the Health Personnel Act. The recognition of these professions is subject to separate laws, regulations and administrative provisions already implementing the Professional Qualifications Directive. The Progress Party believes that there are often many good reasons to be critical of the Brussels Directive regime. In this matter, however, we are clearly in line with the majority of the committee. This is a simplification law, with positive consequences for business and value added. It is clear that more sectors in Norway lack skills staff, and in that case, where necessary, it should also be made easier to recognise foreign skills. However, the Progress Party will underline the importance of good quality assurance and the verification of foreign certificates of competence. We need to be sure that the competence is solid. I also notice that the Centre Party believes harmonisation of the law is attacking regulated professions within, for example. shipyards, ports, transport, electrical and elevators. Very well known works both lifts, cars and boats across most of Europe. The level of both vocational and university education in countries such as Germany, Denmark and Switzerland should not be underestimated. In addition, we in the Progress Party have such confidence in Norwegian companies that we are quite sure that they will employ skilled labour regardless of whether it is Norwegian or foreign. The Progress Party will also recall that internationalisation is a major added value for higher education in Norway. Norwegian students who leave for exchange bring with them new impulses when they return to Norway. Foreign students travelling to Norway on exchange also stimulate Norwegian educational environments. In addition, internationalisation is important for recruiting more foreign researchers and teaching staff to Norwegian institutions. We believe that the same mechanisms can apply in other areas as well. Highly skilled labour can provide new skills and rapid recognition of these can provide efficient resource use and make it easier for the value-creating industry. The Progress Party believes that Norway should endeavour to become more attractive to highly skilled workers from abroad. This can be done through both better business framework conditions and a more competitive tax system, but simple and flexible legislation is also an important factor. The Progress Party is pleased and would like to stress that the Act states that the professional should have the language skills in Norwegian necessary for the exercise of the regulated profession. Well-functioning labour markets play a crucial role in all local and regional social developments. We know that in several places there is a mismatch between supply and demand in skilled workplaces. In several places, private and public enterprises are struggling with recruitment. This law could facilitate this situation and contribute to increased activity and value creation. The Progress Party will also point to the importance of a dynamic labour market in value creation. New jobs are created both by the creation of new enterprises and by the expansion of established enterprises. Many of the new jobs are different from the ones that disappear. Enterprises must therefore have access to labour with the right skills as quickly as possible. The Progress Party believes that the simplifications in the new law will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e277	In the inter-pelling debate last week on the recognition of foreign education, it was pointed out that the internationalisation of education and research and the exchange of skills in the labour market has many positive aspects, both for individual workers and for institutions and enterprises that gain access to skills that are not available in the domestic labour market. That said, it surprises me that both the government party and the majority in the opposition did not seem to have any reservations for this bill. When reading the proposition, a few impressions may be that this is only about the appropriate legal anchoring of a directive that will have no delineative effect on our own legislation and our own legislation, but of course it is not. Since the legislative proposal implements Norway's obligations in accordance with the Professional Qualifications Directive, this means that the legal text must be interpreted within that framework. The general starting point for the EU Directive is that if the Directive and the laws are adopted, the ESA, the European Commission and the European Courts of Justice decide how the Professional Qualifications Directive, as implemented by law, is to be interpreted, applied and enforced in Norway. This fundamental fact also applies to all EU-related Norwegian laws and regulations, including the interpretation of this law. There are several aspects that prevent the Centre Party from adopting a general law, as it is designed in this proposition. A requirement that makes us particularly concerned is the fact that the amending Directive introduces an extension in relation to the 2005 Directive when it concerns the temporary pursuit of a profession in another country. As referred to in the Proposition: «The aim of the Directive is to lay down rules for partial access to a profession and recognition of traineeships in other countries. This is an extension of the provision of purpose by requiring early doctors to be fully qualified to comply with the Directive.’ This extension means, first of all, that the directive – and thus the law – must be interpreted in such a way that it does not actually act as a barrier to mobility. Or, in other words, Norwegian laws and regulations must be practiced so that there is no obstacle to the free movement of labour. Thus, the qualification requirements cannot be interpreted to prevent the free flow from working. Secondly, since the Directive has an effect on professionals, professionals may therefore pursue it as a perpetrator of their rights and ultimately bring it directly before ESA and the EFTA Court. On page 19 of the proposal, it states that Norway's obligations under the Directive will: ‘are the subject of ESA enforcement. Therefore, self-regulation in the draft law on enforcement and penalties relating to those rights is not necessary.» As mentioned, the centre party is critical to several parts of the legislative proposal, such as: § 8, which states that a professional who holds a certificate of competence or evidence of formal qualifications from another EEA State is entitled to pursue a regulated profession in Norway in the same way as persons who have acquired their professional qualifications in Norway. But what if the requirements for obtaining evidence of formal qualifications in Norway are higher, so that the two courses are not equivalent? In practice, it will mean a deevaluation of the Norwegian qualification requirements and that lower skilled professionals will be brought into line with the Norwegian labour market. We think there should be a requirement for a pass in all parts of the law where a test is required. Otherwise, I refer you to the comments of the Center Party in the configuration. Although there are very many positive aspects to the exchange of labour between countries, one should not underestimate that it also poses challenges. Therefore, it is important for the Central Party that we are tidy in the debate when we discuss these questions. A fundamental element is the need for the recognition of foreign competence and education in a safe manner, where Norwegian standards are safe and neither compromises employment nor leads to social dumping. Unfortunately, we see negative examples of this happening in several industries, and the challenge is growing. The Directive has already been partially implemented in Norwegian law through certain specific laws and regulations, as referred to in the proposal. So Norway has incorporated parts of the directive that are considered to be in Norway's interest. This shows that we can freely implement the elements of the Professional Qualifications Directive that we find in Norway's interest, without adopting a general law on procedures and processing rules where we risk undermining Norwegian qualification requirements. Therefore, the centre party does not support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e311	Mobility, simplification and active European policy are important issues for this government, and I am pleased that there is broad support for the proposals in this law. For the sake of order, I would like to mention first of all that the current amending Directive on professional qualifications has not yet been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. It has been announced that they will deal with it in the EEA Committee, between the EU and the other EEA countries, when all countries are ready to do so. The inclusion of the Directive in the EEA Agreement requires the consent of the Storting and a separate consent proposal will be sent to Stortinget during the spring. In summary, this bill describes how we will implement the changes in the EU Professional Qualifications Directive here in Norway. At the same time, this implies simplification and user orientation of the system for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. It is important for me to stress that this is not about which professions we are going to regulate in Norway, nor about what professional criteria are required to obtain approval to work in a regulated profession here in Norway. What the EU has put in place with this directive, and which we will now implement here in Norway with this law, is common procedural practices across countries and regardless of the profession you are applying for recognition. The EEA Agreement is the ground plan for Norway’s cooperation with the EU. It ensures the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital. The Professional Qualifications Directive is important for the free movement of persons. The purpose of the Directive is to ensure access for persons with professional qualifications from an EEA State so that that person may pursue a regulated profession in Norway which he is competent to pursue in his home Member State. Similarly, the Directive gives the Nordics the right to work in other European countries. The Occupational Qualifications Directive has already been part of the EEA Agreement since 2008, but the 2013 amendments have not yet been incorporated. Today, the Directive has been implemented in 28 different regulations of the individual departments of trade which regulate the professions covered by the Directive. There is a wide variation in the implementation of the Directive in the various regulations, and the purpose of the legislative proposal is to ensure a uniform procedure, which also makes it easier for the user to inform himself. Furthermore, the legislative proposal will be a significant simplification by replacing a new law with a number of existing regulations. We are concerned with simplification and efficiency. The legislative proposal introduces arrangements to ensure a faster and simpler recognition of professional qualifications from other EU and EEA countries. This applies, inter alia, to: clear requirements for procedural procedures and deadlines, as well as the introduction of a European Professional Card, in order to make it extra simple for individual professions. In the case of some health and education professionals, alert requirements are introduced to other European countries where professionals are restricted to their right to pursue the profession in their home Member State. This also ensures that we in Norway are informed of cases where people are denied the right to work in professions where they, for example, are employed. have contact with children. The legislative proposal also opens up partial access to a profession for a professional in very specific contexts and requires the applicant to be informed of what is missing in order to obtain recognition with full access to the profession. It is important for me to stress that this concerns the competence that each individual has and can demonstrate in order to obtain approval. We do not propose any changes to the regulation of how a profession is to be carried out, in other words, the law will not affect the possibility of setting requirements relating to, for example: health, environment and safety at work. This government is committed to ensuring that professionals from other countries can make rapid efforts to contribute to the Norwegian community. Neither we as a society nor the professional themselves have benefited from the length of the authorisation process, and therefore clear rules on how to improve the effectiveness and predictability of the procedure are important. It will be considerably easier for the user, but again I would stress that the legislative proposal does not affect the professional requirements of individual professions. It will still be up to the individual competent authority to set up, such as: when the Labour Inspectorate imposes requirements on the ability of a truck driver or diving instructor to work in Norway. An example of a simplification is that I have commissioned the website alinn.no to develop an electronic application portal so that professionals can send their application electronically, and that this is done on a common platform regardless of the profession for which they are applying for. First, the law applies only to applicants with professional experience from other EU and EEA countries, but more effective procedures will benefit all case handlers. There are many who have come to Norway from other parts of the world also with a competence that society will benefit from their approval, and the government is working on solutions to help all applicants receive effective and predictable treatment and to contribute to the user orientation of the recognition system. I will end by saying that I am happy to be able to submit a proposal that makes it easier for the individual to get his/her case and his/her application processed if they want to work in Norway. Long-term application procedures are not served.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e336	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e352	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e361	I refer to the setting of Document 8:20 S for 2016-2017, a proposal for a representative to extend the scope of the Swedish Law of Higher Education to Svalbard. The proposal, promoted by three representatives from the Left, aims to change the fact that today there is no opportunity to apply for or start primary schools at Svalbard because the Swedish Law does not provide for any application to Svalbard. It is no exaggeration to say that this is not the most difficult matter the Committee has had to deal with. In this case, there has been little, if any, disagreement at all. The Committee unanimously agrees to ask the government to start the process of proposing changes to the Law on National Higher Education to open up in order to be able to run a folk high school at Svalbard. It's a pleasure. Svalbard is a society in transition. In the swallowbard message as the Stortinget treated in the fall, the Stortinget points out that new food routes need to be developed. Svalbard must have several legs to stand on. Large Norwegian, which has previously been the engine of the archipelago, no longer has the same operating base as before and is a company in conversion. When the main economic activity — which employs most in the island community — has challenges, it is the responsibility of the large community to develop a policy that ensures that Svalbard can continue to be a vital and sustainable society. It is not only important for Svalbard in isolation because it creates new jobs, but it is also important for Norway to emphasise Norwegian sovereignty – and because active investment in Svalbard gives us new opportunities in research, higher education and travel. Therefore, the task of the global community is to facilitate several types of activities and new jobs — and to develop a new nutrient base. The issue we are dealing with today is that Stortinget does not want the law to prevent a possible new activity, i.e. high school. There are actors in the community who have started work to realize the start-up of a folk high school at Svalbard, and the work is supported by the local government in Longyearbyen. It's a pleasure that all parties now go in to change the law. Thus, it is possible for local actors to continue working on the plans for a possible higher education institution. However, changing the law does not mean changing the usual processes for the search and recognition of higher education institutions. In the case of the establishment of the Svalbard People's College, the Committee stresses that a good application still needs to be made, which is normally dealt with. Nevertheless, there is little doubt that a high-school offer at Svalbard can be both unique and attractive — and with exciting opportunities for cooperation with the other actors in the island community.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e376	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good and thorough review. I am very happy that all the parties are supporting – although he was able to not mention who has worked this out. That's why I'm taking on that job, because the initiative from us in the Left came first from our team at Svalbard. In the work on the svalbard report, it probably impressed them in how many parts of Norwegian society Svalbard is exempt from legislation. In all the laws we adopt, we have to point out whether they apply to the Svalbard area. Folk universities are growing up for the time being, and I think they are fulfilling a very important function in the lives of many young people. Our defense has become different. Before, a lot of young boys used this one year to find their sails, figure out what they wanted to work with, figure out the structure of their lives. Youth today is put under a very great pressure in many important and decisive choices for the future. In it, the national colleges have found an important role to play in developing and forming people, which I believe is an important function our education services should have. When these so grow, it is unnatural that Svalbard should not also be part of that law. See if, when we adopt this today, we have not adopted the legal text – what we assume the Council of State will do a job of getting in place – or the support of a school, it at least gives a good start to those who work with this idea at Svalbard. I was the case rapporteur for the svalbard message when we dealt with it before Christmas. Then one of the wishes expressed from this hall was that we want to have more nordics present on Svalbard, that we want more people to know what Svalbard is, and that we should take care of nature up there in a good way. By educating more young people to understand Svalbard, understanding what's in the Svalbard area and in the natural resources and the research that's going on up there, I think we can create a very exciting high-school concept attached to it. This will allow many young people to be associated with this magical group of islands. I think everyone who's been bit by that basil never gets rid of it. I want many Norwegian youths to have the feeling of being close to Svalbard. This answers a lot of the challenges we face. It responds to the general challenge we face within our education system – where the national colleges provide a good response – to the challenges we have with Norwegian presence on an island group where it is important for us to have Norwegian presence, and it responds to the important climate and environmental challenges that are so extremely well visible on this island group. When I spoke to Svalbard this morning, there was a full storm and big trouble getting to work, sail if most people don't have a long way to work. But it also says that we've had very high temperature measurements there, and the message to those who lived there this morning was that the snowmobile was at risk 4. The challenges we see in this «climate laboratory» – which Svalbard is almost for us – I think it is important to understand, including among young people. Here you get very close to nature, but you also get very close to the climate that our planet is now exposed to. I think it is important to use every opportunity we have to educate all our young people in the challenges we face in this area. I am very pleased that we received support for the proposal, I am very happy for the initiative we have received from Svalbard, and the job Svalbard Left has done to us, but I hope that the Council of State will take a seat and get the law through quickly. The aid shall then be adopted fairly following application procedures and procedures. There is at least a great potential for Svalbard to start investing in the type of operation that a high school would be.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e391	This is a matter of pleasure, we have to be able to call it, so I would like to say a thousand thanks to the Left for promoting the proposal for a representative. I agree with everything that has been said from this pulpit, both on the importance of Svalbard and on the fact that we also have a presence in the knowledge sector. I agree that there is no reason why the Swedish Law of Higher Education should not open the way for an application to be made for recognition of the Swedish National College at Svalbard. So, of course, that application has to be treated in the usual way when it comes, but it's obvious that there's a lot of exciting opportunities if you're working on this. I want to start work on proposing a change in the law of higher education, so that it opens up in order to be able to run high school at Svalbard. I intend to send proposals for legislative changes to the consultation during the current majorisation period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e398	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e403	I thank the Council of State for a not so far, but a very precise article. What we're doing now is asking the Council of State to present a legislative amendment that opens up an opportunity to apply for the establishment of a national college at Svalbard. But there's still a piece left before we see a folk high school at Svalbard. Now we've set up some new national colleges in this period, but that's what happened, I'll say, just after the press from the Left and the Christian People's Party in the budget negotiations. When we get this in place, we have a very unique opportunity to get a completely different high school. My question to the Council of State is whether he can imagine that a folk high school at Svalbard would be so special that even the party Right and the government could wish for such a folk high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e410	Thank you for a clever question. I just have to remind you that although it is quite right that the initiative of the national colleges that have been established during this period – the folk high school is probably even – has come from the Christian People's Party and the Left, it has come through budgetary conciliation where we are jointly responsible for what we agree on. I fully agree that it is extra exciting to think of a folk high school at Svalbard, also because we have built up our educational and research presence at Svalbard for several years. It's an important part of giving the Svalbard community more legs to stand on. I can't promise anything, but we'll probably look at this with an open eye – isn't that what it's called?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e419	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e437	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e446	I would first like to thank the Committee for its cooperation, which has gone free of squeaks, and where the positions of the various parties are clearly reflected in the vote. And then I want to explain a little bit about what PISA really is. In addition to being a turbulent tower in Italy, there is a study, together with several different studies, called TIMSS and PIRLS, which will give us an idea and an overview of what it is like in key disciplines in the field of reading, science and mathematics at primary and secondary level. PISA is one of these studies, and it tests math, science and reading. It takes place in 35 OECD countries and in over 70 countries together on the globe. It doesn't test for curriculum goals, whether they've been achieved, which you have to do at national level, but what kind of ability students have to use what they've learned in school when they get specific tasks. There has been and is quite a broad consensus in Norway that you should be in PISA, and all OECD countries are involved. It would in itself be alarming if Norway, as the first country, suddenly reported out of this sample — which is done at regular intervals, every four years — and no one had done so. 5,000 students are included in these studies. They're drawn out completely randomly, and it goes by age, so this is one of the studies that can't be considered a big time thief either. It's useful if it's used correctly. The idea of the Labour Party is that state authorities are using this right, but that we, as politicians – in good two-way terms with the media – should perhaps be a little more concerned. PISA, according to its research design, cannot say anything about cause and effect. The only thing PISA can show is whether there is a positive or a negative relationship between different findings in the study and separately. On the other hand, such relationships cannot be interpreted as cause and effect. This is a warning from the researchers, and therefore they write in the 2015 fresh report: ‘The PISA study cannot tell us what measures have contributed to change or whether one action works better than another. Only the PISA results can show that positive changes have occurred.’ So this isn't the World Cup in school, because there's an order on land about how to do it relative to an average, but it's really not very interesting. What's interesting is how to relate to the last time the study was done. This means that it should be used with caution — more than we have seen in Norway, in my view. I think it is appropriate that after so many years we get a slightly more mature relationship with these PISA studies, we politicians in general, and that we add – including the representatives of the Workers' Party – to take a proper dose of self-criticism on how to set an exciting agenda in the name of the election campaign, and in some media contexts, for the temptation to overemphasize the importance of PISA. It might look like you're taking credit for something you're not really for, or you're blaming others for something else. We in this committee, by all means, because we are also responsible for research, should understand that we must use that type of study with caution. My recommendation to all school politicians and parties is that we use the information from PISA with caution. Then maybe the criticism of our participation will also dampen something. Education is complicated, there's an interaction between a lot of relationships. First, there's a wide range of social relationships at stake, and then there's the level of parental education, which means a lot, their follow-up, and then it's that all the students are individuals themselves and quite different. Teachers have a lot to say, school management has a lot to say, the economy of the municipalities, of course, and all this is playing together. There is therefore not one obvious reason why a school or education is good or bad. It's very complex, and we have to respect that. But that doesn't mean that these studies are unnecessary. These studies give us a clue as to how our school system is, whether we as a nation are on the right track or not. This is why it is very useful for school authorities. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that a clear majority is in favour of continued participation in the PISA study.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e466	The President would like to thank you for a fine speech and underline the importance of having a mature relationship with matters. Maybe that's what you get when you pass 50, and the president takes the opportunity to congratulate you on the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e471	There is every reason to complement it by congratulating the rapporteur on his 50th birthday. Nevertheless, it is quite remarkable that we are in this Chamber today to discuss a proposal from the Central Party to notify Norway – as the only country in the OECD – of the world's largest research project in education. Overall, 67 countries are participating in the PISA survey. The students who are drawn to participate in it represent 28 million 15-year-olds around the world. And as the rapporteur explained well in his statement: this is about drawing out between 4,000 and 5,000 15-year-olds, who run a two-hour test, as well as answering a questionnaire. No 15-year-olds can obviously be drawn out twice in a row. In other words, it is a bit demanding to be able to say that this represents a comprehensive test regime in Norwegian school. PISA gives us and has given us a lot of valuable and important information. For example, the importance of PISA at the beginning of the 2000s can be highlighted in order to identify the importance of literacy and the need to use cross-disciplinary literacy, not just in some specific disciplines. The results we now see, both by PISA, by TIMSS, by PIRLS and by national tests, show that when we get knowledge about school, when we know how we live, when we get information about what learning methods seem to work in different places in the world, it can also make Norwegian school better. Based on the fact that we discovered in another study, namely TIMSS, that before the Knowledge Promise was introduced, 12 pst were cut. by students in the 4th class below the critical limit in reading, the number is now reduced to 1 pst. It has come not only from having had a discussion in Norway but from getting valuable international research in place, which revealed opportunities and challenges. The PISA study is quite correct one of several studies. It complements studies like PIRLS, TIMSS and the national samples we have. That's the sum of all this research that makes us have a much better and different knowledge base now than we've had in the past about the situation in Norwegian school, about what creates learning – and we get a fruitful public debate about what should be the content of Norwegian school. It is now right that both the Centre Party, which is here the proposer, and the SV, who support the proposal, are critical to national tests. In any case, they want to make them sample samples, which I think — in addition to wanting to notify Norway of the world’s largest research project in education — will be a step towards having less knowledge of Norwegian school. If you have less knowledge of Norwegian school, it is also difficult to get more knowledge into Norwegian school. All governments, ever since Gudmund Hernes reported Norway to the PISA study, have supported this. SV – as I pointed out, which is part of the proposal today – had Minister of Research and Higher Education Tora Aasland, who even reported Norway to the PISA Higher Education Survey. So it may seem that there has been a quite significant change at both the SV and the Center Party from they put in government until now, so they want less knowledge and less research on Norwegian school. And then we see – and it bothers me – that there is now great division in the red-green opposition, which has ambitions to have a majority in this Chamber after the election. When both the SV and the Central Party go so high on the track and say that they now want to report Norway to PISA, I am afraid that there is something they can get through to. We know that every time these three parties have formed a government, the Workers' Party has given the Swedish Minister of Knowledge, and if they do so again, it is the Swedish Minister of Knowledge who is free to notify Norway of PISA. It could have been interesting in this debate to hear how deep the criticism in SV and in the Central Party is in this matter, and whether it is so important for them that there is something they are also going to press to get into any new government. Some proposers also point out that they do not like the debate that comes after the results of the PISA study. I believe that most people can sign the very basic points of the rapporteur, namely that not least we, as politicians, are responsible for having a substantive and proper discussion. But it is worth remembering that it was the coming knowledge minister Kristin Halvorsen, from SV, who, in the 2009 election campaign, almost ran from studio to studio with the PISA results in hand, and said that this was almost a result of red-green school policy. If you want to criticise the debate, you can take a long and good look in the mirror. I believe that in a liberal democracy we must also tolerate heated debate on research and knowledge, but then we must have research and knowledge. That's why we can't sign up for the world's largest research project in education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e494	"No man is an island enter of itself, every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main", wrote John Donne once. This may be worth noting in these days. We are Nordics, but we are also Europeans and not least world citizens. This also applies to the school, its employees and students. We don't live in a vacuum. Many thought in the past that Norway had the best school in the world. were shocked in 2001 when Norway received its first PISA results. They showed that Norwegian students were mediocre in mathematics and science. The 2001 shock was the start of a comprehensive self-search and improvement from a comprehensive Norwegian educational environment. The PISA shot tore us out of the naive belief that Norwegian school was actually the best in the world. The aim of PISA, TIMSS and PIRLS is to provide us with a good overview of the cognitive development of Norwegian students in key disciplines such as reading, science and mathematics at both childhood and youth levels. The information provided by PISA and the other international studies is an important part of the quality assessment system and is intended to contribute to increased knowledge among school leaders, school owners and national authorities. Fortunately, the majority of the Committee believes that Norway is right to participate in these international studies. We in the Progress Party will particularly stress that PISA does not measure our entire school system, nor does it measure the tests of knowledge of art, body practice or understanding of democracy. It's not a theme at all. What PISA measures is the level of knowledge in mathematics, science and reading, and Norwegian students still score pretty poorly. The results are disproportionate to the use of resources in Norwegian schools. Most of us are rightly proud of the Nordic model. Norway scores evenly high in standards of living, quality of life, etc. We're just five million inhabitants, and the social differences are small compared to many other countries. We have minimal sub-class and ghetto problems, a highly educated population, a useful functioning infrastructure and little corruption. Trust is high. Everyone gets school, and we spend a lot of money on the school sector. In other words, everything is right for Norwegian students to score high in both mathematics, science and reading, as PISA measures. So Norwegian kids live in the best country in the world. They are also entitled to receive the best education in the world. We must not be so blinded by oil wealth that we believe in national self-righteousness that Norway can meet the challenges of future value creation in being good at democracy and teamwork. It is the hard subjects, the real ones, that are concretely value-creating and innovation-driven. Norway’s value-generating industries are competence-based, and this will be even stronger in the future. Oil and gas, maritime sector, offshore, finance and ICT are the drivers of value to safeguard the welfare society of the future. These are different industries, but everyone has one thing in common: they're based on real science. Then we can't complain about the PISA tests, or, as the Center Party and SV will, report us out. Instead, we must take the bull by the horns and actively give Norwegian teachers and students an opportunity to get better. In the long term, the real-time and teacher-lift undertaken by the Right and the Advance Party will contribute to an even better school. What measures provide better quality have been researched and we need to continue researching them. In the quality development of Norwegian school, PISA is one of several tools. We in the Progress Party will use the tools that exist, and not empty the toolbox, as the SV and the Center Party order.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e511	I have the impression that there are a few words that create stronger feelings in the debate about Norwegian school than the word 'PISA'. We've heard about the big PISA shock, we've read about politicians who are gripped by PISA panic, and we've read about other politicians who have been accused by politicians with PISA panic, to be PISA passive. The PISA test has for some people almost become a shell word, and for others it may seem that PISA represents the very phase of how things stand in Norwegian school, and that a top position in the PISA test is the ultimate goal we can have for our school. PISA has been allowed to set the agenda and make the premise for the Norwegian school and education debate for many years, and I have a certain understanding that there is now a proposal that Norway should jump off the entire PISA career. I fully agree that PISA is not a fasit. A standardized test like that of PISA can never give a complete picture of the state of our school. It measures some selected skills and competences, but school is about as much more as such a test can never be missed: the school to develop the «gang man», the school to open doors to the world and the future, the school to convey values and attitudes such as respect for human dignity, nature, freedom of mind, tolerance and forgiveness, the school to keep the curiosity alive among our children, who will teach them to think critically, and which will help them to become good citizens of society and good fellow human beings. We have as many grades in Norwegian school as we have to take care of, and these are qualities that can never be measured in a PISA test. It must never be a goal in itself that Norway should climb the PISA ranking. It would be pointless. I think we could have done that if we had arranged our school with that goal, but then we would have lost a lot of valuable along the way, a lot of what makes us maybe have one of the world's best schools in Norway, even if we just cut a little over average on the PISA tests. At least it's like those who have gone to this school have managed to create one of the world's best societies to live in. But the PISA test still gives us valuable knowledge. It gives us knowledge of how our students deal with some very central skills compared to students in other countries, but it may not be the most important thing. The PISA test is a major international research project that gives us knowledge of some of the contexts of the school system, and PISA has also influenced Norwegian school positively. I believe that the knowledge we have gained through participation in PISA is valuable knowledge, but then we have to be aware of how we relate to that knowledge. We have to make sure we don't get tunnel vision, and we have to remember that PISA doesn't give us the whole picture. It's a responsibility that not least we have, we who are school and education politicians in Norway. I think that the proposers show in a good way that it is possible to be part of the PISA project without making it too dominant for the development of the school. They refer to Finland, and then it's kind of funny that they argue that, despite the fact that they don't pay any particular attention to the PISA results, Finland does so well in the PISA test. The proposalers from the Central Party of PISA are allowed to become a yardstick, after all. The Christian People's Party will vote against the proposal that Norway should resign from the PISA, but we will continue to remember that the PISA test does not give a complete picture of the state of the school, and we will continue to warn that it has to be a goal in itself that Norway should climb the PISA ranking. There are completely different things that are important to us in school and school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e528	I would like to thank and congratulate the case-speaker on a great performance – and on the day and recognition that the PISA investigation may be well weighted in some debates. With this Document 8, the Central Party has wished to get a debate on whether we need PISA to map the development of the school in Norway. I note that both the Federation of Education and the National Association of Schools support the Centre Party in that we do not need PISA, but rather have the criterion to test that also builds up the soft values in the school. We're going to evict our students to become tomorrow's community participants. Then we also have to focus more broadly than just on mathematics, reading and science. The center party is not against participating in international tests to be able to measure itself against other countries it is natural to compare with, but as it has been mentioned here, we have other tests we participated in, and we also participated in before PISA came. With PIRLS and TIMSS, both mathematics and natural sciences are measured at stages 4 and 8 and both tests are established by an international cooperation organisation with the aim of research and development of the education system in the Member States. PISA, on the other hand, is a provider of the OECD, which has quite a different purpose and mandate. PISA does not measure the quality of the Norwegian school, but tests a selection of 15-year-olds in a few subjects, regardless of their national curriculum and their overall social tasks. This means that the test is based on a narrow basis and has contributed to a number of statistical errors, as pointed out by several researchers. It surprises me that there is so little will from the other parties, with the exception of SV, to reflect on Norwegian participation in PISA, especially with the background that even 100 academics from several leading universities, such as Stanford, Oxford and Cambridge, challenge the OECD to drop the PISA testing. And what kind of relevance does PISA have to our social development? Norway is slowly cutting at PISA, but is still seen at the top of the world's best country to live in. Well, then, our schools can't be so bad. An international ranking of 15-year-olds reflects little value creation potential, entrepreneurship, in individual countries. So the center part wants more attention to be paid to the fact that we have to take away unnecessary time thieves, who test that have little relevance to the development of our schools and curricula. I would also like to remind you that PISA is established by the OECD Free Trade Organisation, which aims to stimulate economic development and increase world trade. In addition to the qualitative challenges associated with PISA, questions need to be asked about why the OECD should have such an impact on education policy. The central party notes that PISA no cooperates with the world’s largest commercial operator before Edu business, the Pearson group, to develop the PISA 2018 framework. The framework defines what to measure, how to report and how to develop questionnaire tests according to OECD, Pearson, 2014. Pearson aims to commercialise the most possible teaching in the future by offering products and services. In the contract with PISA, Pearson is assigned a central role in defining what is valuable knowledge and how it is measured and reported. The centre party is concerned about this connection to a commercial actor who gets to influence what and how the student is to be tested, and also has financial interests in the development of tests, and in the next round will profit from the purchase of educational material, new tests and tools in the schools, so as to be able to achieve better results. A strong emphasis on PISA tests has led to the development of a national and international test culture with a range of national and local tests and a comprehensive assessment system. The basic subjects are allowed to dominate the education, since they are the ones measured in the national follow-up. What happens then to the other subjects on the agenda, including: the practical-esthetic subjects and the objectives of the general syllabus? Academic skills are offered at the expense of practical knowledge and experience. The centre party is concerned about this, especially when we know that the industry is crying out for more skilled workers and the reforms that we know have appeared in the cold water of PISA, nor does it contribute to an improvement for the practical-esthetic disciplines and professions. The center party believes that it is absolutely useful with knowledge of learning outcomes for the student and information about what increases the quality of school, and to benefit from experience in other countries, but we believe that PISA is an superfluous tool for this purpose. Therefore, on behalf of the Centre Party and SV, I will present the proposal: ‘The Government is asked to terminate Norway’s participation in the International Student Assessment Programme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e554	The representative Ivar Odnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e559	I can agree with the proposers in one thing, and that is that when the PISA results come, we have a somewhat constructive debate, both in the media and among politicians. I guess it's not to stick under the chair that we all contribute to it, and that we use the results in a way that doesn't always form the basis for it. As the rapporteur himself said, we must all take responsibility for it. But even though the debate on the PISA results may not necessarily be what we would like it to be, or what it should be, I don't think it provides the basis for reporting us out of PISA. It's now the way PISA gives us knowledge of what's going on in school. Maybe single results and single years don't have much value in themselves, but over time it gives us important knowledge. So we can equal the results or not equal them, but saying no to knowing the results is something completely different, and it doesn't want the left hand side to be on. It's also the way we live in a global world. We travel between countries, we work in different countries, we send our workforce out, and we get foreign labour in. Yes, Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in, and yes, we have a good school, but our students are also going to compete with students from other countries. We're lucky now that we have oil revenues, but we also know that there are skills we're going to live on in the future, and then at least we don't have to stick our heads in the sand and hide from the results. And then we have to become more aware of what those results show, because they don't show how our school is as a whole, but they show us something. That's what we have to do in the debate, and that's what we have to use when we're going to develop our school further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e566	I'm doing a little comeback in this committee today – and for one day, with the representative Marianne Aasen who is being celebrated. I wish I could crown it with unity, but unfortunately, right here today our path is separated. That's a little bit of a matter we're discussing today. When the PISA results for 2009 were published and Norwegian elephants showed clearly better results than in 2006, the Right was fast out and wanted to take credit for the progress after four years of red-green government. When the 2009 progress was made to Norwegian elephants in 2012 in reading and science, but there was a slight decline to the 2006 level in mathematics, the representative Henrik Asheim went out in the press and said this was a judgment against the red-green ones. Here you might have an example of what the representatives of Aasen, Nybø and Tyvand warn against, that such an active person uses these results to create a simple story. This illustrates very well what is SV's point in this case: the euphoria and maturation on which the Aasen was in is gone in the posts from Asheim. He caricates himself. This matter concerns the effect of PISA on the whole of the Norwegian education debate. In isolation, there is no reason not to be involved in anything that can crawl and go off of international investigations. The naive entry point is that knowledge is rarely superfluous — it is better to have too much than too little. And by making a lot of recordings, we get a right picture of Norwegian education, which enables us to make wise decisions. Norway participates in what may crawl and go through international investigations, either by the authorities or by the research community. We may be the country in the world that is involved in most international investigations, but we cannot have such a simple relationship with the relationship between measurement and policy. The example of PISA shows that the dynamics of research designed for the media on one side and for politics and pressure on the other can have very negative effects. All those who have followed in the Norwegian education debate since the 21st century have seen how the PISA study has focused away from what we were all about being the goal of Norwegian school, and on a one-sided focus on what the PISA study measures. In the cold water of the PISA tests, we have seen the development of an increased target management of the school. The focus on tests has resulted in the development of a national and international test culture with a range of national and local tests as well as a comprehensive assessment system. Of course, there is enough separate political foundations behind this turnaround in Norwegian policy. We know, of course, that the forming ideal in Norwegian school is weak in a number of parties – we don't even need to name them – that rather embrace the test culture as a driving force for better learning. It is not by measurement that the school should be shaped. That's exactly what the example of PISA has shown us, how measurements are produced as the target itself. Everything else – deep, freedom of method, trust, student – must give way. We in SV – as many of the previous speakers – have long hoped that the PISA shock would change its impact on Norwegian education policy into a more sober phase, but as soon as new results have come, we are faced with new attempts to create PISA shocks that draw the educational debate off the track. Asheim’s articles were exemplary in this way. If an investigation is systematically abused over time and adversely affects Norwegian elephants, it no longer considers its purpose. Some questions to those who think PISA should pass: If it is so important to acquire more research and knowledge about Norwegian schools, how does one explain that 100 academics and researchers from reputable universities such as Stanford, Oxford, Cambridge, etc. Have the OECD joined forces with a call to drop the tests? How does one explain that more and more Norwegian school researchers say the same thing? And if it's so important to develop the school itself and the teaching through this test, how does one then explain that Norwegian teachers almost agree that one should drop these tests? Isn't it in the right place to take it seriously? International tests have existed long before the PISA tests to the OECD, and it is appropriate to point out that there is now a formal cooperation between PISA and Pearson. Pearson is a commercial player who wants to sell product and services. It's obvious that they want to create a global market. There should be something that a critical can discuss in this context. I don't think we should take too easy on the PISA investigation and just make it a question of more or less knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e598	In the discussion about PISA, it is important that we are clear on what information this study actually provides, how it is conducted and what limitations it has, because what we are now discussing is, after all, a proposal not to participate in PISA. It is not an open meeting where we are discussing political rhetoric or the political education debate in general. When a proposal is made in Stortinget, it must be assumed that what the proposal says is that Norway should not participate in the PISA studies. PISA measures students' competence in mathematics, science and reading among 15-year-olds. Every three years approximately 9 pst. of a year's coal in PISA. Results are presented only as national averages and results are not available at student, teacher or school level. PISA is also an international research project that examines important aspects and contexts in terms of, for example: learning environment, student motivation, learning strategies and social cohesion. PISA has not only increased awareness of the competence of students in reading and real-life subjects. The study has also helped to put the learning environment, work and bullying on the agenda. For example, PISA shows: a clear improvement in the learning environment in Norwegian school since we took part in the first studies. There has been more work in classrooms, and Norwegian teachers and school leaders deserve recognition for the job they have done, including here. The results of PISA must always be seen in conjunction with the overall knowledge base we have on the state of Norwegian school. In other words, it's not that PISA alone gives some fasitivity, but it complements the whole picture we have. If you start taking away other elements of it, for example: of course, we will get less information. But we also have other international surveys, national tests, the Student Survey, etc., which together provide a comprehensive knowledge base for making good decisions in school policy. It is important that the PISA results are interpreted in a Norwegian context. Of course, we can learn a lot from other countries participating in PISA, but we cannot use PISA to bluecopy the successes of other countries. We need to use the results to develop the school within the cultural and institutional frameworks that characterise Norwegian school. Let me give you an example: the real science strategy ‘Densive in real science’ is the government’s response to what has been a long-standing real science problem in Norwegian school. The strategy uses PISA as one of several sources of knowledge, and the measures are designed to meet our national challenges and to cope with our school structure and our school culture. I also want to stress the importance of the competences that PISA actually measures. Of course, this isn't all in school, but it's absolutely central competence. Reading and billing are basic skills and the Storting has agreed that basic skills remain. Natural sciences include key themes such as health, environment and technology, which are also the theme of Stortinget – the last time we worked on the subject of innovation – have wanted to highlight further in Norwegian school. These are competences that all people need in order to take on further education and to be able to function in society. Education and education are also linked. If the students cannot count or read properly, they will not be able to participate as active citizens or gain a good sense of democracy. We want to build a school where students both thrive, are safe and learn more. To build this school further, we need to know how students' results evolve over time, what creates good learning and where we should take action. PISA is one of several important sources of information on these issues, and I therefore believe that Norwegian students should continue to participate in PISA and other studies. I believe that this is too important for us to be able to cut our ties to one of the world's largest school research projects to mark us politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e619	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e624	We in the Workers' Party, like the Council of State and his party, agree that Norway should be included in the PISA study. The Council of State said in its statement that this is not an open meeting on rhetoric. To that I would say that there is an open meeting, and that rhetoric is absolutely relevant in this matter. I justify that the problem with the PISA study is not that it is a time thief – like many other factors – but that the results are used incorrectly. They are over-interpreted, as underlined by several parties here in the debate. In 2011, the Prime Minister said: I guarantee a promise in the Knowledge Promise among Norwegian students, measured by e.g. PISA and TIMSS study. Does the Council of State consider the Red Isak to be possible to draw this end in this way from the PISA, and will the Council of State take self-criticism on behalf of its party traps that there have also been people in the Right who have drawn the results too far?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e633	My point is that when the Stortinget discusses a matter, we are discussing first and foremost the concrete proposal that lies here. It is quite natural that the debate is also about how we interpret the PISA results, what kind of rhetoric we use, whether we are unprecise or precise, but we must take the proposers so seriously that we actually discuss what they propose, namely that we should withdraw Norway from the PISA. It is certainly the case that we too from the Right – here we can probably also take with us the Advance Party – have simplified the picture. In order to provide this information, the media is further simplified, and this is often the case. With regard to the current Prime Minister and the party leader at that time, it is a quite reasonable and quite ambitious opinion. What she's saying is that we promise to raise the level of knowledge in Norwegian school, and that one way we can see it is through PISA and was that TIMSS prime minister mentioned? This does not mean that the Prime Minister sees it as the only quality check at Norwegian school, because it is in no way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e640	It's more than a political mark that the Center Party has brought up this very thing. The centre party is concerned about the use of PISA in Norwegian schools. He is involved in creating a more rigid test culture and a narrowing of the understanding of quality. We also see that the elephant reports an increase in the performance pressure. Psychologists warn that this is a contributing reason why a greater proportion of young people suffer mental and stress-related health disorders. In total, we have a relatively high test regime in the school. Several people in their posts today have mentioned the extent to which we use this. The alarm clocks often call when the PISA results are provided. My question to the Council of State is: In what way will the Council of State contribute to a more sobering use of PISA and the other investigations? – because I note that there are no multiples to report us out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e647	Let me first comment on the premises in the question. PISA includes approximately 9 pst. of one-year-old 15-year-olds every three years. It is unlikely that PISA may cause increased school pressure or stress among students. The reason why I'm concerned is that both the Center Party and SV also have other proposals that will weaken the information about Norwegian school, such as: converting the national samples into sample samples, which means that national tests will no longer be able to follow developments in each municipality in the same way over time. I am also concerned that while students are learning more, we need to do more for students' mental health and well-being. Let me mention two measures: several health sisters in school have been an important investment in this government. We have also proposed that lifelong learning and public health should be highlighted as a particularly important topic for the renewal of primary and secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e654	PISA 2013, which had been recorded since 2012, was used by the representative Asheim as a source to refer to them as a ‘judgment’ of the red-green school policy. Would the Council agree that there is a basis for calling something like this for a judgment on anything, according to what the State Council has held?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e661	If the question is whether I agree that it is possible to use PISA as a judgment over anything, I will of course nuance it and say that it is not the full and the whole sentence. I think most people will, if they have more than one quote in a newspaper, also be able to come up with several shades of it. But the fact that PISA says something important about the development of Norwegian school over time, especially in combination with other surveys, is beyond doubt. For example, one of the concerns of the 2013 PISA survey, although there were indications that Norwegian school could be on the right track, was that we had a real science problem. It didn't just show up in PISA. We weren't aware of it, we had a real science problem for years. The concern was confirmed by national examination results, by the fact that mathematics is the second largest ironing profession in primary school and also one of the drop-out subjects in secondary school. It is clear that this can also say something about the policy being pursued, even if there is no final phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e666	I have developed respect for the twin state councils in different kinds of matters. But can't the Council of State see that his own party traps are facing these numbers in an unlikely more blatant and judgmental way, and that that's exactly what's ruining the whole discussion about this and driving the debate towards a very clever way of thinking about school policy? Does the Council not see that his own party and his own party traps are driving forward the debate on education that he himself is warning against having, that we should have a much more balanced view of this? Doesn't the Council of State see that this is problematic, or is it entirely okay what comes from these statements because that's just how the pressure works?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e671	I find that if you don’t write a chronicle, you don’t get your full comments printed. As I say, representatives from the Right have certainly also been unsound and simplified a complicated reality from time to time. But I think it is striking that with eight years in government, with government SV, such results were also presented, the TIMSS study and the PISA study that came. It's just going back and looking at how they were described and used by the then government. I think you'll find the exact same thing. It's an interesting discussion, but the Socialist Left Party is proposing to notify Norway of PISA, that we should not be involved in this investigation at all because we are dissatisfied with what Henrik Asheim said when the study was presented in 2013. It is a non-target reasoning that means that we report Norway out of one of the largest international school research projects simply because they are dissatisfied or have complaints about Norwegian political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e676	Researchers at the University of Oslo, Kjærnslie and Jensen have analysed the results in the document Stø kurs, Norwegian students' competence in natural sciences, mathematics and reading in PISA 2015. In reading, the results for 2015 are not significantly different from the results in 2000. In mathematics, the results are not a significant difference between 2003 and 2015. In the natural sciences, there was significant progress from 2006 to 2015, but not from 2009 to 2015. Researchers sum up by saying that it is most reasonable to interpret the Norwegian results in the three disciplines as very stable over time. The researchers thus simply conclude that if Norway was a school dropout, as was said in 2000, Norway plus/minus was a school dropout in 2015. In addition, those who have been exempted in 2000 have increased from 2.7 pst. to 6.7 pst. in 2015. Does the State Council know this documentation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e688	Yes, and I also know the researchers' overall interpretation of both the 2013 PISA results and the results that came last year. But I do not agree with Mr Lundentegen's description of reality. It is true that some of the fluctuations from year to year are within the margin of error. In other words, you can't say if it's a significant result that you can actually rely on. It was, for example. in mathematics from 2012 to now. Another thing that's forgotten is that the point of PISA is that we have time series data over time. After 2000, a PISA shock came, and the main reason for that was that we thought we had a school that was really close. But then it turned out it wasn't quite in the den, and then our results on PISA continued to go down. It reached a bump level in 2006, if I don't remember faults. This was a worrying development. For example, some of the same happened in Sweden, and Sweden continued to go downhill. It is clear that then it has something to say both what to do in schools and what policies you have started.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e695	The next replicant is the representative Marianne Aasen, and the president would like to congratulate the representative on the 50th anniversary!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e700	Thank you, most people have got it with them now, I think – we get hope. The Council of State Røe Isaksen replied to Knag Fylkesnes’ questions related to the fact that we had a real subject problem, as it was said, after the results came in 2013. [[Laughter]] What was the background to this concern? Well, we'd gone down a little bit in science and math compared to the previous results. In reading it was stable, according to this survey, while in 2015 Norwegian students again score slightly above the average in reading and math, but not in the natural sciences that I know is a central real subject. The Education Directorate reports that the results have been stable since 2009. Doesn't this particular example show some of the core of the problem, that you draw out conclusions that actually get a little bit too bastant?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e707	I was also going to congratulate the representative of Aasen on the day, but now I am not going to do it! [[Laughter]] I think it's paradoxical that there's coming criticism that we're just basing ourselves on PISA, just based on PISA? As if my diagnosis in 2013, when I had become the Council of State, was based solely on the PISA numbers! However, if you look at the real-life problem in Norway over time, there are several factors that build up under the same problem description, and fear was just that we were in a downward trend. If you look at the results in real science this year, that's exactly what Aasen says about natural sciences. The mathematical results are significantly better. It's a big jump and well one of the biggest successes any country has had from 2012 to today in mathematics. If you look at PISA and TIMSS Advanced – now I have to look after and sort it correctly – then the point is that we still have big challenges in the real world, and it won't be gone even if PISA shows progress, for example. in mathematics.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e714	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e719	The criticism of PISA is not new and is not something that the Center Party is all about putting forward. There is now a debate in several countries about the use of target management in general and PISA ranking in particular. The consequences of the international test culture are unfortunate. Effective target management at school may enable us to get better results on international tests, but will not help us towards tomorrow's societies. The PISA tests shall state something about skill and competence, but shall not adhere to the country’s curriculum or the Norwegian purpose paragraph to promote ‘education and learning’. It is said in the debate that it is alarming if Norway withdraws from the PISA. Yes, of course it is, but it's not an argument. I think we do, other countries will follow us. It is said in the debate that participation is useful, but is it? If we look at the PISA results for 2015, it is marginally different compared to the first time Norway participated, in 2001. We also got to listen here that more are for exemptions. But the most serious consequence is that it has affected Norwegian schools, so that the PISA study is used to produce a bureaucratic test culture and a narrowing of the quality understanding in Norwegian schools. It is said that the result must be used with caution, but is it? For 15 years it has not been used with caution, but it has been used as a ranking. So it's said that we must have research and knowledge. The centre party is not against any research or knowledge of Norwegian school. International tests existed long before PISA, and there are other tests that the Center Party thinks we can still participate in, where we get concrete information about how we are compared to other countries. But we have to be able to have a critical look at what kind of international tests we're going to participate in. Then it is that testing and testing in some subjects goes beyond other subjects and the school's total building work, for example. look up to visual and practical subjects in the school. Finally, it is such – and it is a major concern – that medical expertise warns against many elephants experiencing so much pressure and inner turmoil that they are not susceptible to learning, and several researchers point out that the school’s testing and measurement regime itself can contribute to increased mental pressure on our young people. PISA alone is not responsible for it, but it's the whole system that PISA contributes to. Therefore, the output from PISA is a very important thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e736	For me, it is obvious that it is important for Norway to participate in the major international research studies in the field of education, including PISA – not because they each tell everything about our school and the professional level, nor because I am particularly concerned about ranking, but simply because I am concerned about what we can extract from each of these studies that can contribute to the knowledge of better education and better learning for each of our students. Professor Thomas Dahl of NTNU is one of them, for example. have been concerned that too few school leaders and school owners know that PISA also provides knowledge about school management and school operation. I think that's serious. As a nation, we need to learn from the other countries involved in the survey. Why has Germany, which had a larger PISA shock than us, had a good development? Finland, which was a success, has fallen. What makes Finland and Sweden fall the most and have had a negative development? Do we use the material well enough to gain insight into both successes and negative developments? The PISA study points out that adapted training is one of the most relevant conditions for pupils’ skills, e.g.: in real science. This has been used and talked about with us too, and apparently we have scored better than the OECD average on this. But do we know enough about adapted training in Norway? According to Dahl, it's documented that our teachers feel too little about it. Is there anything else to pick up? And what about our knowledge of teaching professional cooperation and what the OECD calls educational leadership? How do we follow up on these issues, when the studies make it clear which kind of management should be supported in order to obtain results? As I see it, the yield of this type is at least as important as – if not more important than – the concrete score of the students who are part of the study. It's the debate on these things that can help develop our school further. That is why I believe that PISA, as one of several instruments, is useful. And at the same time, evaluating and using the results with intelligence and caution is a matter of course. There is no reason, as I see it, to report Norway out of PISA, but there is good reason to stay — and also to participate in and develop this tool further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e747	Now this debate has begun to be about me, and it's nice, but I think we'll try to have a little more sober discussion. Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes from SV, who unfortunately is not in the room now, spent a lot of time on the fact that I – quite rightly – said that the results of these studies after eight years of red-green government also say something about what you have spent the eight years on. That's what he thought was very unsound, and it wasn't supposed to say that it had a connection with the political choices that had been made during its reign. But the strange thing about it is that Knag Fylkesnes' own knowledge minister Kristin Halvorsen in 2009, after four years in government, took credit for the results of the PISA study, because then she said two things. Among other things, she said:\t\t You ‘The shock treatment after the first PISA did not have immediate effect, but now the results show that we have managed to reverse a negative trend.’ And she said, ‘The results of the year show that strengthening the common school benefits’. [[...]] So if it's completely unreasonable when you're in government, to criticise opposition parties for results, how will SV and the Central Party talk about their own then-known minister of knowledge, who took credit for results four years before they got criticism for them? It doesn't make sense to both. In that case, there must be as much criticism of one's own government council as of the opposition. So both the proposers and the SV use what I want to call the climate skeptic argument, and that is to refer to some researchers who believe something. What you jump over then is the vast majority of researchers who believe the opposite. We will always – it lies in the nature of research – find disagreement. That’s the whole point of the academy – to discuss, be critical, try to refute thesis, and in that way also get a debate. But not only can you totally ignore the vast majority of researchers who believe that the PISA study is one of several important studies that say something about the development of the school. In my main post I challenged the SV and the Center Party on how important this is to them. Now the representative Toppe has gone quite far in saying why she sees it as important. She has even believed that the PISA study contributes to much of the pressure experienced by many young people today. Then the question is, is this so important that there will be a requirement if the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre were to have a majority after the election this fall? Is it true that this will then be lifted again, not only in Document 8 proposals in the Storting, but in a government statement, in government negotiations? I also think it is time to ask the Workers' Party how deep their support for the PISA study is. Is it not appropriate to give the SV and the Centre a pass to notify Norway of the study, as the only OECD country – will they guarantee that it will remain here and now, in any case?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e768	For the Center Party, this is an important matter. It's in formation, it's developing character, it's developing the authoritative human being. So I can only assure the representative from the Right that this is going to be followed up further. There is no basis for any conclusion that Norwegian school is doing better today, based on research work. It's gone down rather than up. And the extraordinary and significant efforts that have been made in Norway over the last 10–15 years to achieve better results in just the few cognitive skills that PISA measures have been of little or no use. In addition, if we ask how all the other subjects and objectives of the school’s overall mission have been identified and significantly downgraded over the last 10–15 years, it may be reasonable to assume that the overall quality of Norwegian primary schools has also declined during this period. What is clear is that there has been increasing stress, psychosomatic problems and dissatisfaction among children and adolescents in recent years. And perhaps the most interesting thing in the PISA study for 2015 is that ‘doubles of students replied that they experienced stress and exclusion’ — quote from the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia — at school, compared to 2012. It's serious. This liberal and market-oriented wave of competition in international education over the last 20 to 30 years is, in my opinion, the following: it does not function well enough in learning contexts; it is not built on extensive international research, but on an ideology that since competition can be good in business, it also provides learning outcomes in school. It's in my opinion just to say, "I'm sorry!" In addition to not even providing better results in the narrow cognitive skills that are exposed to testing and competition at all levels year after year, this competition – linked to the free choice of schools – contributes on the basis of visible results, in my opinion, to increasing class divisions in society. However, the most serious thing is how this ideological wave contributes in practice to narrowing the school's mandate to the nearest banal. And what was my starting point, was to develop the authoritative human being, the robust human being, the human being of character. I have to say that the results that are here, and the interpretation of them, go far beyond what it's covering for. The production that the government has made after the results of 2015 is, in my opinion, absolutely on the edge of what I would call ethically sound. Therefore, reporting Norway out of PISA, from character to quality and education, must be a perfectly correct principle in order to move on with a good school that develops decent people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e779	Let's briefly look at the main findings of PISA 2015. When it comes to reading, we make a special distinction. Here are Norwegian 15-year-olds among the best in the entire OECD. There are still major gender differences – there is a problem. The results in the natural sciences sector show progress from 2006. It was the last time that natural sciences was the main area of PISA, and Norway is one of only two OECD countries with significant natural progress during this period. In mathematics, we've made progress, we're among the countries that have had the greatest success since the previous PISA survey, in 2012. The number of high-level and low-level students has increased compared to 2012. This isn't just a number. This is really – people, students, at school. For example, the proportion of students at the lowest level in mathematics fell from 22 pst. in 2012 to 17 p.m. in 2015, while the proportion of students at the highest levels increased from 9 pst. to 11 pst. Another thing is quiet and orderly in classrooms: In 2003, 41 psts reported. by the students on noise and noise in the hours. Now this share has dropped to 25 pst. This is relevant. I would like to have specific examples from the representative of Lundtigen if he believes that the government, that is. min, the presentation of PISA was at the limit of ethical soundness. Let's stay a little bit on the claim that these are narrow cognitive skills. Reading is one of the crucial things you check in PISA. And we're also going to do it through the national tests. Is reading a snowblower cognitive skill? How is it possible to read – and I would like to hear it from the representatives of the Centre Party – in addition to the school’s educational assignments? Is there a contrast between the fact that all children and young people, regardless of their family background, regardless of their parents' education, learn to read properly and the school's education? How does integration make it easier if Norwegian school does not teach all children to read properly? How does it make it easier to run a participating school where children get the self-esteem they need, if not all children can read and write properly? How are we going to combat class distinctions if there's no equal opportunities, regardless of parents' educational background, no matter where you live in the country, to learn to read, either for pleasure or for benefit? How are we going to run modern nation-building through our school, which we need to create community, in order to create coherence, if we're not concerned with the representative Lundtigen calls for a snug cognitive skill, like reading?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e789	I don't think anyone would doubt that the Center Party is the reason why you're going to learn to read well, that you're going to learn to count, that you're going to have knowledge of natural sciences. But the school is so much more, there's so much more that is needed for you to become a whole human being, and that formation is going to help the school develop. In terms of reading, research shows that there is no significant difference between results in 2015 and 2000. In mathematics, there is no significant difference between 2003 and 2015. In nature, there was a significant increase from 2006 to 2015, but not from 2009 to 2015. The results are bad when you look at it on a research solid basis. And then the number of samples that have been exempted has gone up from 2.7 pst. to 6.7 pst. of 15 years. It affects the results of the skills measured here. Furthermore, on a research basis, it is made clear that in some other areas it is going wrong, and I am very surprised that the Council of State does not take it in a more humble way. Increased stress, psychosomatic problems and dissatisfaction among children and adolescents in recent years show that there has been a doubling of those problems in a few years. The PISA study is based on an ideology that measures only part of what man needs to be an authoritative human being. That is at the heart of the Central Party's criticism of the PISA study. Schools are something more than what business needs to make money. Schools are something that man needs to develop the whole human being, to deal with all the situations of life. Then you have to have an overall environment that takes care of it, and it also has to be a priority in education and in the systems we use to develop education better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e800	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e816	The annual report of the EOS Committee and the debate on it are not just an overview of activities. It is also a review and a way to see how e-services can be controlled and deleted. There is also a looping report to the Stortinget on whether the Ministry is taking care to follow up on the concerns raised by the Stortinget. In addition, there is a possibility for the public to seek and find safety in the outcome of the studies. Fortunately, it's there. I would like to stress that an overall committee nevertheless expects the irregularities raised and commented on by the EOS Committee to be resolved. I will mention some of them later in my article. What's particularly problematic is that several times in the last few years it's the same irregularities we get back to. In 2015, the sample set up 37 actions of its own initiative against 39 in 2014. The issues addressed by the sample on its own initiative are mainly the follow-up to findings made by the sample in its inspections. The committee investigates as known complaints from individuals and organisations. 23 complaints were received from the EOS services in 2015, compared with 26 in 2014. The Committee feels that it is positive that the selection prioritises the review procedure and spends a lot of resources on it. Some of the complaints have been addressed at the same time by several EOS services, which is why it is particularly important to deal with individual complaints because there may be symptoms of a major problem. The Committee notes that, in 2015, the E-service improved and organised the sample’s search into the service’s systems, with the exception of some information that is categorised as sensitive, and that the sample in its annual report identifies the solution as satisfactory. The Committee will discuss the issues of transparency in particular sensitive information in the examination of the evaluation report of the EOS Committee to which we will come back. The Committee took note of the fact that on 2 December 2014, the E-service established an instruction on the organisation of EOS inspections and the handling of requests from the EOS Committee. We're describing that as positive. In a world where e-services are becoming increasingly important to prevent crime, trust and legitimacy in services are particularly important. The functioning of the EOS Committee and the annual report are just helping to strengthen that confidence. The Annual Communication draws a picture of a service that cooperates on control, which wants to contribute to transparency where possible and which plays on a team basis to provide security around its functioning. Intelligence aims and aims to ensure our common security. It is a desired and priority service, and the price we have to pay is our trust. This annual report shows that the services are trustworthy. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that six out of four complaints addressed to NSM have given rise to critical comments from the sample. This is a serious matter for the Committee. There are also some recurring problems that it takes too long to solve. It is important that the EOS Committee be given the opportunity and the means to continue its activities. On 27 March 2014, the Presidency set up a sample to evaluate the whole of its activities. We will come back to that in a separate debate in Stortinget. The Committee has examined the report. The EOS Committee points out in the Annual Communication the need for strengthened mechanisms for democratic control through extended methods and facilities for the EOS services. In particular, the Annual Communication stresses that the establishment of a possible digital border defence must also be accompanied by assessments of how this is to be controlled by the EOS Committee. This is the agreement of the Committee, and I would like to add that we must regard it as a matter of course. The size has previously discussed and problematised the challenges of cross-border cooperation between services, while control is national. The Committee commends the international commitment of the EOS Committee – they have had a long time – on this issue and considers it important and proper that they prioritise their cooperation with the DCAF, the Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces. I want to add for myself that I hope Norway will take a multi-level driving role, since we are so far ahead, as we do after all, several other countries, with control functions. One of the most important EOS committees is to address matters on their own initiative and not least in the wake of issues raised in the public debate, and issues that flow to the public. It is important not only to resolve criticism and respond to criticism, but it is also important to contribute and participate in that conversation in order to calm down the functioning of e-services. The Committee notes that the sample has made significant efforts in the control of the PST’s order to investigate whether there was any team in the Evening Post material in the case of fake base stations and whether it showed that illegal intelligence activities had been carried out in favour of foreign countries using fake base stations in the Oslo Centre. This was a big and important thing. There was too much concern and concern about the functioning of services, and the Committee would say that it is positive that the EOS Committee engages in as much as they did. In its conclusion on the investigation, the PST states that ‘there is no evidence of the use of false base stations or IMSI prisoners in the basic material obtained on the occasion of the investigation’. The in-depth study of the EOS Committee showed that the PST did not use false base stations in the Oslo centre illegally, and the sample did not provide any grounds for criticising the PST technical basis to resolve the case. The Committee considers it positive that the sample will continue to monitor the use of IMSI-catching by PST, and also considers that the outcome of the study that came was reassuring. The Committee would express here that we have registered the work of the sample on the ‘Mystery Mathiesen’ case. The EOS Committee has stated that if the Storting takes a decision requiring the sample to examine the case, the sample will examine the matter in more detail. The committee has not received any feedback from Storting in the matter. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to refer to the E-service's presentation and letter of 7 May 2015 to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy, where the sample informed that, after an overall assessment, the sample would not carry out a survey of the current economic situation in its articles. The Committee refers to it and shares that overall assessment. The committee has carried out 25 inspections, two more than the instructions require. The police security service has been inspected ten times, the E-service five times, the NSM four times and the Defence Security Department three times. In addition, the Personnel Security Service of the Ministry of Defence, the Personnel Security Service of the National Communications Authority and the Intelligence and Security Functions of the Marine Hunter Command have been inspected. I would like to stress that the Committee believes that the two-wayness of the inspection, a random check and a pre-prepared check to ask questions are correct. Information on individuals not to be stored shall not be stored. It is essential for the possibility of this storage to comply with the restrictions, the legal framework for collection and the rules for deletion. The Committee notes that the sample points out positively that the PST has established new work hypotheses that demonstrate the basis for which the PST considers it necessary and important to store information on persons in the Smart register. However, the Committee stresses that the legitimacy of the registration has not been sufficiently active and calls for this work. We are pleased that the PST has announced that the service will change its technical solution, so that the information on positive contacts will be reviewed for five years. We also record that the PST has reviewed data from its contacts, which naturally resulted in a significant reduction in the number of people with contact status in Smart. The Committee records the management of the selection of ‘reporting events with a comprehensive mailing list’. The situation is that a number of e-mail addresses were stored in Smart without a legal basis and were deleted due to verification by the EOS Committee. The rules for erasure must be followed, and there must be a greater awareness of storage procedures, so that one does not rely on the audit of the EOS Committee until it is deleted. The Committee expects that the information will not be processed in breach of future legislation. There's been another P on the PST network. This has previously been referred to as problematic by the Committee and the Committee. The Committee expects the storage of information outside established systems to cease. In its suspension of the 2014 Annual Report, the Justice and Security Committee asked the Ministry of Justice and Defence to clarify the relationship between the retention obligation of the Act and the deletion rules under the Police Register Act. However, there is still uncertainty about how and when to block, archive and any delivery to the National Archives. That's not good. The committee has announced that it is responding to the outcome of the dialogue of services with the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the National Archives on these issues. The Committee does. Criticism has no value if it does not provide indicators on what should be changed in order to end the basis for criticism. The Committee notes that the sample has received 14 complaints addressed to the PST, compared with 13 in 2014. A case has given cause for criticism, and the criticised relationship has now ceased. The committee considers that there is a challenge — and that concern is shared by the Committee — that there is a limited scope for complainants to justify the selection of PST criticisms in complaints. This means that information on criticism as a result of a complaint cannot be given to Stortinget. The Committee asks the Ministry of Justice and Defence to assess this practice, with a view to strengthening its control and improvement capability. One of the issues that we have discussed several times in this room is the time for dealing with clearance issues. Time and again, Stortinget has been promised efficiency in this area. The annual report notes that NSM has implemented measures that have led to a reduction in the number of refunds and an expectation of shorter processing times in more recent cases. That's good. The Committee shares the committee's expectation that the NSM will continue its efforts to reduce the process time in clearance cases to an appropriate level. The Committee has received the specific notification to the Storting on the basis of which the E-service monitoring activities are based. We'll get back to that later. In the Annual Communication, the EOS Committee requests the Stortinget to assess the legalisation of a rule on the deferred transparency of the EOS Committee similar to that contained in Section 18 of the National Audit Act and Section 5 of the Public disclosure Act, so that disclosure only occurs when matters from the EOS Committee have been received in the Stortinget. That assessment shall be agreed by the Committee. Representatives of the Committee will come back and present proposals for amendments to the EOS Control Act in a separate proposal for a representative. With this, I recommend the unanimous comments of the Committee on the Annual Report.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e871	This is a matter for the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, which has worked thoroughly on both this matter and the next matter on today's agenda, and it also bears a great deal of consensus in the Committee. It is therefore easy for me to see that the rapporteur has reproduced the discussion and conclusion of the Committee in an excellent way. I can start by saying that we are satisfied that the EOS Committee responds to public mention of phenomena, which you then go in and investigate, for example. the case referred to in the Evening Post, namely these false base stations, on which the rapporteur was also concerned. I also agree with the case rapporteur when she finds that these investigations show that the PST has not used false base stations in the Oslo Centre illegally, and that the sample did not find that there was a basis for criticising the PST technical basis to resolve the matter. The Committee considers it positive that the sample will continue to control this extensive use of IMSI-catching, as it is called, i.e. these base stations that attract communication. The EOS Committee has pointed out in the Annual Report the need for ever stronger mechanisms to ensure democratic control, when allowing to extend the methods and facilities of the EOS service. In particular, the Annual Communication stresses that the establishment of a digital border defence must also be accompanied by the assessment of how this is to be controlled by the EOS Committee. Here, in parallel with this annual report and in the cold water of it, we have also become aware of the option of the Lynne II Committee. What I'm going to conclude with so far is that the EOS Committee is going to play a more important role in the future given that the proposals of the Lysne Committee are being addressed. The extension of the surveillance area due to digital border defence is the main reason for this, but the EOS Committee will not be left alone, and reinforced mechanisms must also be identified as a prerequisite for the introduction of a digital border defence. A stronger legal framework will also be needed to ensure that this activity takes place on the basis of principles consistent with the rule of law. Digital border defence involves technological possibilities for the e-service to carry out targeted retrieval and analysis of relevant foreign intelligence data. Access must be judicially controlled, and the search must be specific to foreign actors. It is easy to say that the DGF is not similar to DLD at this point, i.e. the Data Storage Directive, which had a greater impact on mass monitoring, based on well-known investigation principles and specific searches. I also have to say that it counts in the assessment that there is growing concern that established countries, not just non-governmental organised networks, carry out systematic cyberattacks aimed at societally critical infrastructure in neighbouring countries and, in several cases, targeted data attacks to influence both opinion formation and election outcomes. It has, in my opinion, given a completely different and more serious dimension to the questions we are discussing. Digital border defence, after what has been outlined as solutions to get into it at all and accept it as a method, and to be able to consider it as necessary and proportional, will have to be subject to the most comprehensive control regime that has been seen. All applications must be subject to prior approval by an independent court, based on clear balancing standards. It is also important that these balancing standards should not be changed later in the course, for example. in the event of a change of purpose, some of which would characterise as a purpose glare. Judicial review requirements will mean that the E service cannot use any of the communication without prior knowledge. In addition to prior authorisation, a new independent control will have to be established in the near future, which will then be an instance in addition to the EOS Committee with which we have gradually become familiar and which has been incorporated into the control system. At the same time, we want to keep the independent back-testing, which is the core task of the EOS Committee. With these words about the issues that we are facing, which will require consideration both for principle and for legal reasons, I look forward to the next annual report and the findings that it has to give. I note that this annual report shows that we have an EOS committee that has been the task of growing up, which is a safeguard for democratic control of the EOS services.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e890	It is good to see that the EOS Committee has carried out inspections of the secret services as set out in the control guide and has carried out the number of inspections to be carried out — and so on. It is found that both a random check and a prepared check are carried out to ask questions. The Progress Party believes it is good that there is such a two-way sharing of the inspections. The EOS selection celebrated in 2016 20th anniversary in its current form, and it was therefore natural that one looked at how the EOS selection has worked in this period. At the request of the sample itself, the Presidency set up its own sample in 2014 to evaluate the activities of the EOS Committee. The evaluation committee's report is dealt with in the committee as a matter of its own, and I do not deal with it in detail in this article. Like the right of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to deal with matters on its own initiative, the selection itself has raised issues in the light of the public debate – according to the EOS Control Act § 3. The Committee considers this to be very positive. The EOS Committee points to the need for strengthened mechanisms for democratic control through extended methods and facilities for the EOS services. Particular attention is drawn to the fact that the establishment of a digital border defence must also be accompanied by assessments of how this is to be controlled by the EOS Committee. The Light II Committee has made recommendations on how to establish a digital border defence, and it is clear that one needs to address the areas of democratic control in the methods described – which are also addressed by the EOS Committee. The Progress Party will contribute to paying particular attention to this issue when the government proposes a digital border defence, including the balance between digital border defence and privacy considerations. The EOS Committee has previously expressed concern about the length of the procedure in clearance cases. In parallel, this has also been a recurring issue on the part of the Ombudsman for his defence, and the Committee has also expressed the same concern several times in its Opinions on the Storting. According to the annual report of the EOS Committee, NSM has now been found to have implemented measures that have reduced the residual duration and an expectation of shorter processing times in recent cases. This is an area in which the Committee is also concerned, and it is therefore expected that the NSM process period will be reduced to an appropriate level. The Progress Party considers that praise should be given to the EOS Committee for the way in which it implements its work under the EOS Control Act, including in particular the way in which the EOS Committee has initiated initiatives in the light of the public debate. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the very thorough and good review of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e907	Our society is based on trust between governments and citizens. The means we use to ensure security and security must not be such as to help weaken this trust between the state and the citizen. The emergence of the information society and the development of ever-changing technologies require a clear and principled approach to the rights of individual citizens. How do we relate to an information flow that increasingly challenges the individual's right to privacy? We know that privacy needs to be balanced against the need to combat crime effectively. In many cases, there will be good reasons to introduce stricter controls. Consideration must always be balanced against each other. But if we do not have a conscious relationship with the fundamental principles we are considering, we will almost go unnoticed by the basic principles of human protection and the freedom of citizens, because arguments of value can always be put forward. Each step doesn't have to be dramatic, but it can be a dismantling of privacy based on the principle of ‘take it, take it’. This is not a functional question. It's a value question, and it's politics. It is policy that limits the use of instruments. At the same time, this is a field where it's done quickly to slide. Although policies are set and instruments defined, unfortunately we know too well how important it is that the secret services are under democratic control. Therefore, the EOS Committee carries out important tasks by ensuring that there is no injustice to anyone and that human rights are respected. This is a very important societal task, which also contributes to anchoring, developing and strengthening the legitimacy of services. The annual report of the EOS Committee provides a thorough review of the activities. This is useful and important information for Stortinget. 25 inspections have been carried out and there are two more than the EOS control instructions require. At the same time, the sample addresses issues that have received attention in the public space, such as the case of fake base stations in Oslo Centre. The Committee has made significant efforts in the control of PST’s order to investigate whether the Evening Post material in the case of fake base stations showed that illegal intelligence activities had been carried out in favour of foreign countries using fake base stations in Oslo Centre. In its conclusion to the investigation, the PST states that ‘there is no evidence of the use of false base stations or IMSI prisoners in the basic material obtained on the occasion of the investigation’. The in-depth study of the EOS Committee showed that the PST did not use false base stations in the Oslo centre illegally, and the sample did not provide any grounds for criticising the PST technical basis to resolve the case. At the same time, in the Christian People's Party, like the rest of the Committee, it is positive that the sample will continue to control PST's use of IMSI-catching. A recurring case has been the lengthy procedure in clearance cases. It's a pleasure that it now seems to be some improvement. In the opinion of the 2014 Annual Communication, the Committee expressed concern that the situation appears to have worsened in 2014, despite the Committee’s previously expressed expectation of improvement. At that time the Committee asked the Ministry of Defence that the necessary measures be taken immediately to remedy the situation. I record that the EOS Committee has followed up the case in 2015, and that the sample notes that the clearing authorities have taken action to improve the situation. It is positive, although there is still a way to go before the time of proceedings is down to a reasonable and – in our opinion – the right level. In addition, I refer to the rapporteur's good review of the matter and the Committee's position, and I would like to end by stressing once again the importance of the important work done by the committee. It is an important work to ensure that there is no injustice to anyone and that human rights are respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e926	First, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for a very thorough and thorough review of what is now under consideration. The Committee points out that the EOS services express in their open threat assessments that they face a complex and complex threat picture. Increasingly more technologically advanced systems make information gathering and analysis easier, while making major demands for information management. Reference is also made to the fact that increased international mobility raises several issues of connection, citizenship and residence. The purpose of intelligence is to create good decision support products at strategic, operational and tactical levels. That's why we need our EOS services as much as possible in troubled and unbridled times. At such times, it is important that the services have sufficient capacity and space for action. However, it is essential that we maintain democratic control over the secret services. It is through such a control that we guarantee the legitimacy and trust of the services. Through its independent control, the EOS Committee ensures that the services operate within its mandate and legislation. In this way, the legal certainty of the individual is also ensured. I am pleased that the EOS Committee has not found a basis for criticism of the E service as a result of the inspections carried out in 2015. I also noticed that the sample specifically noted that none of the previous years' inspections carried out at our station in Ringerijk provided a basis for criticism. The e-service is dedicated to facilitating the best possible implementation of its control by the sample. It is therefore appropriate for the sample to make visible the fact that the service has laid down instructions on organisation and inspections and has taken further practical steps to facilitate the sample’s search. I am also pleased that the sample believes that the E service demonstrates the willingness and ability to provide basic legal certainty guarantees by the way it reports and follows up internal deviations. The service is constantly working to ensure that it has good internal procedures and regulations in place to ensure the legal framework to which it is subject. In this respect, I would also like to refer to the ongoing work on developing a more comprehensive and comprehensive regulatory framework for the processing of personal data in the service. In 2015, the EOS Committee carried out an inspection of the security and intelligence functions of the Marine Hunter Command and found no basis for follow-up. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, the EOS Committee reported that it did not have sufficient effective access to the defence-related FISbase systems. In 2015, the cyber defence team has developed a procedure describing how the EOS Committee is to ensure access to the systems during inspections. The selection is satisfied with the established procedure. The committee has some critical comments that an operational database at the Defence Security Department was not closed within the time limit set by the FSA itself. The database is now closed and the data deleted. In the annual report, the sample indicates that it has delivered a separate notification to the Storting on the legal basis of the monitoring activities of the services. This case is treated as a matter of its own after this, and I come back there to the question of the government's further work on establishing a digital border defence. In the past, the Committee and the Committee have criticised the lengthy process in the defence sector. I have taken this criticism very seriously and measures to reduce the length of proceedings were taken. As the Committee well remembers, much of the problem was also caused by the technical introduction of a new treatment system. The Defence Security Department was strengthened by eight new annual works in 2015. In addition, two years' work was assigned to the Defence Personnel and Security Centre to ensure the role of the requesting authority, thereby ensuring a better flow of cases between the Centre and the Defence Security Department. The national safety authority also significantly strengthened its capacity. I am pleased that the committee and the committee note that the measures have led to a reduction in the number of cases and to a shorter period of proceedings. The national safety authority has continued its efforts to reduce procedural time, and 2016 figures underline this. The average process time in the clearance cases now meets the requirements set, i.e. approx. 80 days. For the average duration of proceedings in the complaints cases, the figures show a decrease from over 400 days in the first tertiary in 2015 to about 400 days. 100 days in the third tertiary 2016. In 2015, the Defence Security Department received 16 798 requests for security clearance. The residual peak was 7,400 clearance cases in February 2015, and during 2015 they were reduced to 3,239. It is also within what is considered normal, because the Defence Security Department always has a large number of ongoing cases. The FSA states that they have never had as good control of the case as they have today. By the end of 2015, the FSA dealt with more issues than what came in. The average duration of proceedings for ordinary clearance cases in 2016 is 45 days, with a reduction in the length of proceedings of approximately 45 days. 25 pst. from 2015. The Defence Security Department has also established a separate Section for Quality and Legal Control. The section shall ensure that the clearing cases are properly and effectively dealt with and at the same time liaise with the EOS Committee. I would also like to make a few comments on the complaints that were raised specifically by the case rapporteur. So there are four out of six complaints that have given rise to critical comments. In two of the cases referred to in the lengthy procedure, measures have already been taken. The third case referred to disagreement on the use of discretion in Sections 3 to 7 of the Personnel Safety Regulation. The assessment by the NSM is in line with normal practice by the clearing authorities. The fourth case dealt with the Ministry of Defence as a second instance, i.e. the Board of Appeal. We were critical of the NSM's handling of the case and reversed the decision. The Ministry of Defence will, of course, ensure that the comments relating to the matters in question are followed up. We live in a globalised world and many Norwegian citizens are related to countries other than Norway. There may be a complication in matters of security clearance. However, in most cases such a link will not be of crucial importance. Kjevik Stationszentrum has carried out a study in which it was found that at the lower edge of 5 pst. of the connection cases ended in a negative clearance decision. However, there will be some cases where safety considerations limit the possibility of holding a security clearance. The sample shows that they have over time seen several principal issues related to connection issues. The sample also refers to the need for systematic review of these types of issues. It's a work I support. Some attention has also been paid to these types of cases, and mainly to those subject to protection who have received a negative clearance decision. There is no safety cooperation with Norway due to links with Norway. This kind of thing is challenging. A security clearance shall be provided when a person shall have access to Norwegian or Allied protective information. Protective information will typically be desirable for other actors to gain transparency. PST writes in its open threat assessment that they know that persons associated with other countries are exposed to threats and pressures from the security and intelligence services of other countries. This, of course, must be taken into account by the clearing authorities in their work. It is important to stress that a negative clearance decision in this type of case does not deal with discrimination based on ethnicity or religion. In these cases, a concrete and individual overall assessment of the risk and vulnerability of the press has been carried out. At the same time, it is clear that such a decision may be burdensome for the person concerned, in particular for those liable to be protected. Some of those who receive a negative clearance decision are born and raised in Norway, and they have a strong desire to serve their country. It may be difficult to understand why the origin of parents should affect their future in Defence. These are people who have not done anything wrong, and the way in which they are informed and treated after such a decision should reflect that fact. The defence has therefore improved its procedures in relation to these kinds of cases. It is essential that the professional communities working on these complex issues are competent and robust. It was therefore important to reduce the large number of clearing authorities in the civil and military sectors. The proposal for a significant reduction of clearing authorities to mainly one military and one civil authority was adopted in June last year. The entry into force for the military sector was 1 January of this year and the entry into force for the civil sector is planned for 1 January 2018. The committee itself pointed out that a reduction in the number of clearing authorities could facilitate better professional environments and that this could increase the legal certainty of individuals and the public’s trust in sound treatment and non-discrimination in a partially closed management process. I am therefore pleased to announce that the transition to a new structure in our sector, i.e. in the defence sector, has been successful so far. The Defence Security Department has now taken over the case portfolios from the Ministry of Defence and our agencies without any significant challenges. Finally, I would like to underline the positive impact the sample has on the EOS services. In addition to the primary control function of the sample towards the services, the sample also contributes to professional development by challenging the services with critical questions, thereby driving insight and competence forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e962	Today, the majority has two issues for treatment involving the EOS Committee. Both matters are important for the control of our intelligence, surveillance and security service. They show that the sample is crucial for the rule of law and democracy. The EOS Committee shall contribute to the trust of the services of the population and the people elected to continue to carry out their important societal tasks. The police security service is probably our most well-controlled EOS service. The monitoring of coercive measures by the Court of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office for the collection of information and the monitoring of the Ministry of Justice and Defence is complemented by the comprehensive monitoring of the EOS Committee. In addition, the PST has a functioning internal control based on clear frameworks – clear guidelines. The 2015 Annual Communication shows that the sample found conditions that could be pointed out to PST. It is satisfactory to note that the PST follows up the findings and references of the sample in a constructive manner. This shows how the sample contributes to improvements, which PST expresses appreciation. The EOS Committee does not consider it appropriate to criticise the PST basis for the imposition of the case on the Evening Post claims of false base stations. I am pleased with this. The prosecution decision to lay down can neither the sample nor I comment. The committee also found no basis for believing that the PST was behind or had accepted the illegal use of false base stations. The EOS service cooperates internationally. I note that the EOS Committee's dialogue with similar control bodies in other countries contributes to the development of the control methodology. I will follow the assessment of the possibilities for coordinating cross-border control. I agree with both the EOS Committee and the Enlarged Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that any extended methods and facilities for the EOS service must be accompanied by enhanced control mechanisms. This has to be followed up in an investigation into any legal framework for digital border defence. I want to follow up on PST's work to ensure the notoriety of information about reporters and tippers in other ways than when registering in the intelligence system Smart. It is good that the PST has changed its technical solution, so that a five-year assessment is now also carried out of so-called positive contacts. It is also good that the PST has followed up the comments of the EOS Committee on persons with contact status in Smart. I consider it unfortunate that the PST has processed several hundred e-mail details over a long period of time without the conditions for the processing being fulfilled. At the same time, I am also pleased that the list was deleted following the opinion of the EOS Committee. I also agree with the concerns of the EOS Committee about the presence of the PST in the police house search in a case where the PST had a preventive case against him. It is positive that the PST Chief quickly followed up the need to ensure better and more consistent practices. I also notice that the chief PST followed up with all the police districts when the EOS committee in 2015 found archive material that should have been delivered to the DSE or mashed. The Ministry of Justice and Security overseeing the PST units in the districts is also following up this issue, as local paper archives are not to be found in the police districts. I will follow up the dialogue between the PST, the Riksarchivet and the Ministry on the relationship between the retention requirements of the Archives Act and the police records law requirements for the deletion of personal data that are no longer considered relevant to the PST. PST and Kripos have changed their practices when requesting the registration of alerts in the Schengen Information System, SIS. This meets the requirements of the EOS Committee that Kripos be able to perform a real test of whether the conditions for registration have been met. It is a challenge for the EOS Committee that no supplementary information can be provided to complaints about criticism from the sample. I have a great deal of understanding for that. The Ministry assesses whether it is possible to change practices, but we have so far not found a solution that takes into account the confidentiality of classified information.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e990	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1006	We live in a country where we can be sure that one in all institutions – police, politicians and the secret services – goes to work every day for our common good and to safeguard our everyday lives. There is a security that is not to be taken for granted and not all countries share. The fact that we have it in Norway is a lot thanks to the fact that we have an E-service that can be controlled and that helps to relax around their assignments. Having a secret service is a politically misguided action, and it's a necessary situation, because the threats to us are not going on in transparency. We need someone where the threats are, to avert them. In order to be possible at the same time as data protection is ensured, services need to have the means they need to do the job that we expect them to do. And the means must reflect the time we live in. It's been a very long time since 1998. Then Backstreet Boys, ‘N Sync, LeAnn Rimes and Will Smith were still on the hit lists. Aerosmith sang "I Don't Want to Miss a Thing", and that's something we all know a little bit about, in the middle of the winter vacation, here we are. At the same time, the world looked completely different. The means to monitor someone, whether legally or illegally, were completely different from today, and the instruments now need to be adjusted. Since 1998, for example: the statutory right to privacy in Norway. Technological development has gone insanely fast, a technological development on which we are to protect ourselves, in particular. Then we also have to equip our services with the means they need to do the job we expect them to do. The Committee has received an up-to-date specific notification from the Steering Committee for the Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Service on the legal basis of the E service for its monitoring activities. It is a central task for the EOS Committee to verify compliance with the prohibition in the first paragraph of Section 4 of the e-Law. This provision, only in order to recall it, states that the E service shall not ‘monitor or otherwise obtain information about Norwegian natural or legal persons’ in Norwegian territory. It meant something else in 1998 than it does today. Since the adoption of the e-Law and the EOS Control Act, there has been a major change not only in technological developments but also in the threat picture and in technological communication opportunities. In addition, the sample has seen two concrete aspects that have led to the delivery of the specific message: access of the e-service to information from telecommunications and data traffic in and out of Norway and the search of the e-service in stored metadata related to Norwegian legal entities in Norway to find selectors. What is ‘in and out of Norway’ today? There is something quite different than in 1998. Section 3 of the E-Law sets out the tasks associated with the E-service. This provision states that the service must: ‘to collect, process and analyse information relating to Norwegian interests in relation to foreign countries, organisations and individuals and, in this context, to develop threat analyses and intelligence assessments, to the extent that it can contribute to ensuring important national interests’. That list is not exhaustive when it comes to what tasks we expect them to solve. There is a need to equip services with the tools they need to do the tasks and to equip the EOS Committee with the tools they need to investigate whether it is being done properly. This specific message is about some specific legal remedies. The Committee has set out its observations. We're of the opinion that it's not necessarily certain that it's just these houses that may need an upgrade. Indeed, the Committee believes that it is essential for confidence in the e-service and, in fact, felt security for the country and for the citizens that instruments that are proportionate and necessary to carry out the mission of the service are described by a law that is consistent with the challenges we face. I would like to refer to the e-service's opinion in connection with the specific notification. It states that ‘public space claims about a lack of legal basis in themselves represent a challenge’. I don't think the E-service writes because they think it's problematic to be rewritten in the paper. What is problematic about this is if an uncertainty is sown that is not necessarily correct about whether the E-service goes beyond its mandate on purpose. I read the e-service so that they try as best they can to complete the assignment we have given them, based on a law that has expired. We must take the consequences of this as a big one. The issues raised in the specific communication are at the intersection of data protection considerations and the security of the state and citizens. In particular, this growing fundamental right to privacy is a clear indication that this magnificence believes that the interests of the security of the kingdom and the protection of privacy are equally important considerations, which we need to take seriously and measure a law after. I would like to say, as the rapporteur, that I appreciate the fact that the EOS Committee believes that this issue is of such fundamental importance that it is presented to the Stortinget. But the Committee believes that it is not necessarily enough just to look at individual paragraphs. The Committee is of the opinion that, instead of adjusting the single provisions of the e-Law, it will be more appropriate now, in the light of the perspectives drawn up both from the EOS Committee and from the E-Service itself, to submit a proposal for a revised e-Law to the Stortinget, with assessments of how the EOS Committee is to monitor compliance with the e-Law. In this context, it is an overall committee which makes the following proposals: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for a revised Act on the Intelligence Service.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1042	The case spokesperson has now done well for the matter, so I do not feel the need to keep any long posts. I still want to underline a few things. The first is that it will always be a challenge and also a continuous effort to balance the right of individuals to privacy against the need for protection of society and individuals from various forms of attack. That's why it's always important that we have through-worked and clear law houses in this area. The world is moving fast. We have a threat image that's in continuous motion, and never before has technology developed as fast as he does now, and that's especially true in the area of communication. This means that the law can quickly be out of date, it can seem old-fashioned and also become obsolete in some areas in relation to technological developments. This may mean that we have ways of communicating today that we did not think about when the law was last treated, and it may also be that the law allows us to do something different and more than what was suggested when the law was enacted. The threat picture has also developed in such a way that today, defence and the police have far more cohesive challenges in many areas than one had before. It applies both in the field of cyber and in the area of terrorism. It has also taken action in relation to it, and the establishment of the Joint Counter-Terrorism Centre in 2014 is an example of it. That is why it is a unanimous committee asking the government to present a proposal for a revised law on intelligence services, and we believe that a thorough and good review will ensure that we still have a decent, thoughtful and balanced law, which still guarantees the necessary legitimacy of the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1051	In my post on the previous case, the Annual Report, I started by stressing how important it is that our society is based on trust between governments and citizens. The means we use to ensure safety and security must not be such that they help to weaken this confidence. At the same time, I drew attention to the balances between the individual's right to privacy and the need to fight crime effectively. I noticed that it is just this EOS committee is busy and addressed in the foreword of the special message. One of the tasks of the sample is just to draw attention to the potential need for change, where dilemmas or new issues arise. That is why we have handed over this specific communication, which in this specific case addresses a possible need for changes to the intelligence service legislation. The sample considers that actual, technological and legal developments indicate that the time has come to notify the Storting of a possible need for legislative change. So it's not a criticism of the service we're dealing with here, but the Storting is made aware of the issue. The EOS Committee shall verify that the E service does not monitor or otherwise obtain information on Norwegian natural or legal persons in Norwegian territory. This may seem reliable at first sight, but as the sample accurately explains, this is very complicated. Technological developments raise some important issues that do not necessarily find their answer in the e-Law. Both the threat scene and the technology have changed since the law was passed. In addition, the selection points to two key issues: access to E-services for information from telecommunications and data traffic in and out of Norway, and searches in stored metadata related to Norwegian legal entities in Norway. The Christian People's Party believes it is wise for the Committee to ask the government to come back with a proposal for a revised law on intelligence. This we think is the right way to do it, where one includes the perspectives that are drawn up, both by the sample and by the E service. That is why we agree to this procedure and otherwise refer to the rapporteur's good review.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1066	I too, of course, refer to the good and thorough review of the rapporteur and the unanimous remarks in this matter of importance to the Stortinget. There is reason to stress that the Committee on Justice, Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, as well as the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, unanimously agreed with the Committee's position on further action and the comments submitted by the Committee. There are no additional comments from the two respective committees. This means that in this important matter, we have a great consensus in the Norwegian magnificence about how these matters are to be handled, and about how they are to be understood. I use the opportunity to express a political joy over it, because here we are talking about major political challenges for our society – in many ways. It is clear – and it has already been mentioned by my good colleagues – that the starting point here is, I would say, a very good specific message from the EOS Committee. It is a message that addresses important, sensitive issues and that correctly raises a problem with Stortinget, the elected assembly, about how the law is – but not that it is believed that the E service has now gone beyond the provisions in place there. This takes up a perspective that I, for my part, would like to highlight in this debate. It is that, in the future, we will face the issues raised in this specific communication: Where is the borderline of the right of e-service to monitor Norwegian citizens in Norway? It's a fundamental question, which, of course, addresses the relationship between the PST and the E-service, and the role of the E-service in general. It will be a matter that needs to be dealt with in practice and in fact. My concern – and which is at the committee’s disposal – is that it cannot happen without a good legal understanding and an anchoring in the law. That's what this is about. As the rapporteur and others have said, we have taken the step – and we agree – not only to address this issue, but also to deal with a new e-law, which addresses all the perspectives that are being raised. I believe that the government understands the signals of the Storting as very heavy when three committees in Stortinget have said what they have now said about what is the necessary content of such a law. It is not necessary today in any way to anticipate what might be thought of whether we should have a so-called digital border defence, how it should be understood, how this should be handled by services. It's a discussion that's ahead of us, but it's coming. But what I think lies in the whole understanding is that nothing can happen without a proper legal basis, and that judicial control is effective and real. If we cannot meet that need, we will challenge both Norwegian democracy and Norwegian culture, but we will also challenge the provisions of the Constitution in this field. That's why this is so important. In addition, one more thing: I believe that the people of the EOS Committee – who are well represented in the room today – hear that there is great trust in the work of the EOS Committee in every way, and that it is necessary for the future management of these particularly sensitive areas that we ensure that the legal basis is so clear that the EOS Committee has a legal basis to carry out control. It's of great importance. Of course, if there's any doubt about the understanding of the law, there's also any doubt about how the EOS committee should be able to control this effectively. These things are very clearly related. So this special message has ended up proposing what is, after all, very comprehensive, to ask for a full review of the e-Law because we saw the context of these matters. Of course, it is also necessary to do so, because one part of the case is related to the other. The last sentence is that I expect the government to understand that the issue of how to control Norwegian citizens in Norway should also be dealt with in concrete terms. It's a sensitive thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1085	This case is quite interesting because it does not completely fall into the usual pattern, namely that the EOS Committee, based on established understanding of the legislation, is going through and looking at the actual compliance of the EOS services. It is striking how strongly it is emphasised that the EOS Committee has not found anything to criticise precisely these field services, as you might call it. What the EOS Committee has done to the contrary, and which is a great service to the Storting, is that they have made it clear that the legal basis itself is in some ways calling for — need — a strengthening. It's very important information for the legislator to get it on the table. Without criticising those in the field, the legislator has made it clear that there may be technological developments that make you move something from the point of view. It is usually the case with a lot of legislation that conditions change without the rules being followed. I therefore think this perspective is important, namely that nine out of ten legal decisions are legally not taken by the courts, but by the administration. In this context, the agencies are part of the Norwegian administration, which finally draws its foundation from the government, which represents the top of the administrative pyramid. One of the reasons why I think it's very, very important, the work that the EOS Committee has done is that unlike very many other law enforcement decisions that the administration makes, those who don't get their rights fully respected will be aware of it. So a landowner who wants to travel an annex, and who is unjustly refused, will be able to go ahead with it, precisely because he is aware that he has not been given his right and has the opportunity to try out the decision. It is in the nature of the matter that monitoring takes place without the privacy of those who have been harmed being aware of it. Therefore, it is so important that the EOS Committee has made us aware of the potential legal conflicts of a legal nature that may lie within it. Of course, it is crucial that the Stortinge can be up-to-date in its legislation, that we take such messages and make the operational decision that we have asked for a slightly larger review and a revised e-law that makes the Stortinge legislation in this area as up-to-date as it is possible to expect in a time of up-to-date technological development.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1094	Law on the Intelligence Service was passed in 1998, and a review of the 19 years that have passed shows that social, legal and technological developments since the late 1990s have been great – I would say almost enormous. The digitisation of society is one factor; the change in the threat picture is another. In addition, the position of human rights in Norwegian law has been continuously strengthened following the adoption of the Human Rights Act in 1999 and also since the constitutionalisation of certain key human rights in 2014. Seeing all these factors together, it means that the time is ripe to review the legal basis of the Intelligence Service. I therefore share the view of the Control and Constitutional Committee that the Intelligence Act should be fully updated. This is a work the Ministry of Defence started last summer, and we also fully agree with the committee that making updates of individual provisions in the law hardly serves the purpose. There have been so many changes that we have to look at the whole thing. A review of the legal basis of the e-service should, as pointed out by the EOS Committee, ensure that the e-service has sufficient basis for the tasks assigned to it to ensure the security of the state. Furthermore, it is necessary to ensure that the legal basis is up-to-date in relation to legal developments, in particular in the field of human rights and privacy. It is true, as the rapporteur says, that no one has been served, and at least of all the Intelligence Service, that there is a doubt – even if there is no doubt – and then it is important to make this review of the legal basis important. It is also important to recall, as the representative Tetzschner also did, that the sample does not consider grounds for criticising the service. The task of the intelligence service is to systematically collect and process information relating to foreign affairs using both open and disguised methods in a State legal framework. The products of the Intelligence Service shall reduce uncertainty and provide understanding and provide a very important basis for Norwegian decision-makers. This is a societal mission that is no less important in the time we are now going into, and I would therefore like to stress that a review of the legal basis does not aim to limit the tasks or societal tasks of the E service, but rather to ensure that this has a safe legal basis. Legal anchoring must ensure both that the E service can perform its tasks effectively and that important safety reasons are met. The government will therefore come back to the Storting with an updated law on the Intelligence Service that takes care of all these reasons. As I have seen, technology and the threat scene have evolved dramatically in recent years. Attack, espionage, threats in the digital space are greatly increasing. Terrorism and violent extremism remain a serious threat to our security. These are aspects that both the Intelligence Service and the PST have pointed out in their open assessments for both 2016 and 2017. Communication structures in society have changed, and traffic has shifted from air — radio and satellite — to high-speed fibre cables. The intelligence service does not currently have systems to control the digital border and has no access to information that flows in the cable network. Therefore, Norway's ability to capture communications between actors that could pose a threat to national security, such as between international terrorists, and our ability to protect us from external threats in digital space, is not satisfactory, and it is serious. Both the Norway Defence Expert Group and the Digital Vulnerability Committee point to this issue. The Government therefore decided to provide the Digital Vulnerability Committee, or the Light I Committee with an additional task, which was then sent to the Light II Committee. The Light II Committee issued on 26 August last year a report examining key issues related to the introduction of any digital border defence. The committee unanimously recommends the establishment of a digital border defence. The assumption is that a strict control regime consisting of both technological and human control mechanisms is established. It is important for me to stress that a digital border defence will not provide the Intelligence Service with free access to all communications carried in the cable network. The e-service will have access to only a very small part of it. The report of the committee mentions a number of mechanisms to help ensure this precisely. Firstly, technical filters need to be developed which, as far as possible, will filter out information that is not intended to be addressed by the e-service, such as: Norwegian-to-Norwegian communication. Secondly, there is an important point, a point that might seem to fall a little away in the social debate on digital border defence, that the Lysne Committee suggests that the E service should go to the courts and get pre-authorised objects and action patterns that it wants to search for. This means that the e-service will only be able to make specific searches in communication warehouses after it has been assessed and accepted by a court. Thirdly, the sample recommends an independent supervision check in an approximate real-time manner, and not least an ex-post check by the EOS Committee. In total, this quarter of the control shows a very strict control regime – both technical filters, pre-checks, almost real-time checks and ex-post checks. Sometimes when you hear the public debate, it is possible to get the impression that it can be easy to mix what is the task of the E-service and what is the fight against crime. That's two different things. The mission of the e-service is to the rest of the world. Information and analysis from the E service shall contribute to the security of Norway and its Norwegian interests. Work is threatening and not targeting individuals. For example, the e-service has: not as a task to collect evidence against suspected persons for the purpose of prosecuting. It's a task for the police. Nor is it right, as I was saying, that the intelligence service has access to all digital communications that cross the borders of the country. The Light II Committee proposes that the E service be given access to targeted searches in an information society after a court has approved it. I would also like to stress that the E-service will not be able to search for data on Norwegian people in Norway. It is outside the legal mandate of the E-service. Therefore, digital border defence does not mean that the e-service should be able to monitor ordinary people’s e-mail, telephone traffic or Internet surfing in Norway. There is no doubt that the issue of the introduction of a digital border defence raises many difficult questions of principle. From the change of public terms, we can see that there are different perceptions of how a digital border defence relates to our international obligations, especially in the area of privacy and human rights. The report of the Light II Committee was sent to the hearing last autumn, with a deadline of 20 January this year, and many and good hearings have taken place. I can assure you that we are also closely following international legal developments. Today, however, we consider that there are no points of reference that override the conclusions of the Lysne Committee that a digital border defence can be introduced. The government considers that a question related to the introduction of a digital border defence in Norway needs to be investigated and clarified. We must expect that the threats in – combined with our dependence on – the digital space will increase rather than decrease in the years to come. We as a nation must be able to adapt our defenses to the threats we face. The government therefore aims to develop and investigate and concreteise a proposal for the establishment and regulation of a form of digital border defence that both enhances our protection against threats to the security of the state and fully respects central human rights and data protection obligations. The report of the Light II Committee and its consultation input provides a very good basis for further analysis, but there are still a number of issues that need to be clarified and assessed before a final legislative proposal can be presented. It aims to do so during 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1122	The EOS Committee rarely uses the legal opportunity to give a specific notice to the Storting, then about matters of importance. The notification’s recommendation to review the legal basis for the surveillance activities of the Intelligence Service appears to be both well prepared and well justified. The Minister of Defence has already explained the government's decision to review the Intelligence Act, and I fully support the decision. I also refer you to the Minister of Defence's statement. The law must balance the need to obtain the necessary information in order to protect fundamental national interests on the one hand and privacy and legal certainty on the other. It must also ensure the ability of the intelligence service to perform its tasks efficiently and efficiently. Legal work must take account of the need for any extension of the scope of the service to carry out monitoring at the same time to ensure that the EOS Committee has sufficient control basis. The intelligence service itself is in favour of the proposal to review the legal basis. A clear law will reverse unnecessary disagreement between the service and the range of interpretations and thus also contribute to even better dialogue. The government has decided to follow up the Vulnerability Committee's investigation NOU 2015:13 Digital Vulnerability – Secure Society. The committee recommends, inter alia: the introduction of a digital border defence for Norway. The proposal and the opinions of the Hearing Officers will be followed up, and the review of the Intelligence Service Act will contribute to the coherence of the collection methods relevant to privacy. In order to ensure that Norway’s fundamental national interests are safeguarded, it is essential that the EOS services cooperate. Cooperation in progress, e.g. in the Joint Counter-Terrorism Centre and in the Joint Cyber Coordination Centre, the exchange of information shall mean the exchange of information between the services. Exchanges are based on legislation and agreements between services. The new Intelligence Act will not amend the legislation or agreements underpinning cooperation with the Police Security Service and the National Security Authority. The exchange of information between services is routinely reviewed by the EOS Committee. The review of the Intelligence Service Act must therefore take into account the control of the EOS Committee in this important area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1135	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1151	When we see reports from drug cities in Malmö, Gothenburg, Stockholm, Brussels or Paris, we are quick to say to each other that fortunately we do not have parallel societies in Oslo or Norway. I live, live and travel daily in Groruddalen and eastern parts of Oslo where this is most topical, and I agree. But we should not underestimate the danger and must be careful to sleep an hour. The main feature of parallel societies is that there are criminal groups and gangs that enforce their own laws and rules with violence, threats and fear. They're trying to build parallel structures and territories where society and the police have less control. Do we have such areas in Oslo? I want to say that unfortunately we have some places where there are some connections to it. Should we talk about it? The argument against is that we should not stigmatise any areas and not give criminals unnecessary status and attention, but the danger is that if we don't take it up, don't tell about the danger signals, there will be no awareness of the seriousness, no broad effort and no mobilization of society's resources to reverse and prevent development. My own experience from Furuset in 2006 when there had been ten shooting episodes there in the first half of the year, and when the B-boy had built up there for many years, we had to talk about it. I held an interpellation debate in Stortinget at the time as well, and a rendezvous project was started that received 12 million. kr extra per year for four to five years, and there was a preventive wide Groruddal bet I don't think there are many on Furuset today who would say that we shouldn't have talked about it. We hear the same lessons from the cities of Malmo, Gothenburg and Stockholm, where they've got something close to a parallel society somewhere. Many there today say that they should have talked about it before it went too far, and that it is much harder to reverse the development now than if you had started it in time. So I want to talk about it. There are in particular three criminal gangs in the Oslo area and really in the country, who have strength, size and local footholds and resources to build territories and enforce their own rules there. One calls itself Young Guns – that's the oldest crowd, how many, as they were pushed by the rendition project and other emerging criminal groups, have moved outside the city border to Lørenskog. But some also live in the eastern parts of Oslo and south of the city. The other is the B-gang, which is still quite concentrated in the Furuset area, but operates in different locations in the Groruddalen, and especially in the inner city east. The third group calls itself Young Bloods – it's the youngest group, and the main characters there are now 25-30 years old. They have developed from juvenile criminals without paying particular attention to them, and without having been closely followed up. They have built up a dangerous criminal gang, which is based in Søndre Nordstrand district. But several other known, heavily criminal people from other environments in Oslo have been searching for them as they have strengthened themselves, and they have had footholds in other areas of the city as well. It is known that they have contacts with Albanian mafia from Sweden. It is considered, both by the police and by others, that this latter group, Young Bloods, is the most offensive and dangerous in terms of violence, and that they are actively recruiting young people and getting them into a criminal racetrack. I've been described as a purely recruitment meeting where they gather 15 to 20 young people who have fallen out of school and society, like drop-outs from high school, and say that some of the 'primary school' to become a gang member is wanting to do things that make them get a prison sentence and prove willing to zone for the gang. When we continue to notice in the media that there has been a very violent settlement between youth gangs, or that young people have beaten up some with extreme violence, which we have unfortunately seen too much of in places like Mortensrud, Haugenstua, Stovner, Westli, Greenland and Tøen etc., there may be recruits in the community who have been told by the leaders to knock up someone who has tried to sell drugs in their area, who has not paid debts to them, or that they will make their way into new areas and take over these outlets. When even more serious events occur, such as kidnapping and violent violence, which we have seen in particular in Søndre Nordstrand in the last few years, it can also often be evidence that they have broken rules in these areas, some of which characterize as their territories. It is also said that when someone wants to do something, such as sell drugs in these territories without being punished by the gangs, they have to ask for permission and pay 15-20 pst. to them. It might sound like Italian or American Mafia series, this, and I'm not going to spend too much of the Storting's time on it, but it's actually important to take into account the seriousness of this, which may seem strange to many. We have also seen that when individuals in the gangs or gangs are going to rise on competing gang environments or individuals, they can also use firearms in public places and put others at great risk. For the past six months, we have seen this at the family restaurant Egon on Lørenskog, at Kalbakken in Oslo, at Bjørndal and at the Hausmann quarter linked to Calle’s Food and Wine House. It has begun to become too many settlements with gross violence, and too many kidnappings, too many shooting episodes, and there is much we can't hear about because they won't talk to the police and are afraid to be called quieter. We have to deal with this. There are areas where they even have watch systems, where they warn when the police or competing crowds are on their way in, and have then become attached in these areas. – It's about big resources that are on the move. There may be a number of dozens of people who are full-time criminals in each of these groups, and they may have 100-200 recruits who are willing to work as risky workers. The question is how the police should have resources to do something in the vicinity of being able to follow up and take these advanced environments. We have very good people in the police in Oslo and elsewhere, who have been working on this for a long time – especially in what was called the rendition project and later became Special Operations, which is a separate unit in org. the Krim section of Oslo. But they get quite few compared to the large and growing communities. With the implementation of a common organisational model in all police districts, where org. the Krim sections are closed down and the various parts assigned to the joint investigation and intelligence unit will be even less likely to focus on following these environments. Strong, systematic and long-term work against these environments is required month by month, year by year if you want to take the main characters, find out how they are organized and not just take those who sell drugs on the streets or those who shoot and strike out in the field. The police will not be able to do this if they cannot concentrate enough on them and instead move out and get involved in the huge range of issues to be covered by the joint intelligence and investigation units, where they are to be deployed. The danger is that they will have to work more reactively, and move out most when there are shootings or kidnappings or violent violence and not have time and opportunity to work to reveal and dissolve the structures themselves. Yes, in the new model, even special operations are set up with fewer layers than today. This is the opposite of meeting the most serious threat to our security, that is. the organised crime and the criminal gangs, in a clear and strong manner. This is not just a local Oslo case, but something that has consequences for crime throughout the country, because a lot of organized crime is jumping out of here. I believe that the Storting and the government cannot sit and watch that while the threat of recriminal and organized crime is increasing in both Norway and the whole of Europe, our competent police are being organized to make it harder to concentrate on them and do the job. I hope that the Minister of Justice will be involved in how we can put in place an effort where the police get enough resources to drive back the criminal gangs, dissolve them, crack them – and as far as possible ensure that they do not have built territories or parallel societies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1197	First of all, I would like to thank you for the commitment that the interpellant shows in dealing with criminal networks and environments. Much of what was taken up in interviews that were put before me on organized crime in March 2016 and organised human trafficking in October 2016 also has topicality for today's theme related to the fight against criminal gangs. It is important that, in criminal policy, we can unite on key choices and thus strengthen the capacity of society to both prevent and combat serious crime. Organised crime represents a serious threat to both private actors, the welfare state and social security. The new EU Internal Security Strategy for 2015-2020, The European Agenda on Security, organises crime as one of three priority areas. In Report. St. 37 for 2014-2015, on global security challenges, is equated with terrorism and organised crime as threats to our social structure. Challenges related to criminal gangs must be seen in the context of changes in the image of crime. Organised crime can consist of complex structures and is constantly changing. Criminal gangs tend to persist over time. Nevertheless, the boundary between what can be defined as organised crime, criminal networks and criminal gangs is floating. Cripos refers to a trend in which repeaters are more often included in far more loose and unidentified criminal networks than their own, either on behalf of the gang or independently of it. As long as there's money to earn, threading doesn't have to be a factor limiting cooperation with other criminals. Cooperation is not restricted either by borders or by police districts. Analysis by Europol supports the increasing appearance of criminal activity in Europe as a business model in which criminals with the desired capacity and competence cooperate on criminal activity for a more limited period of time. Trend reports from the police confirm that personal conflicts and violence characterise the rest of the environment in Oslo and the central eastern region. Oslo Police District reports that in the last 10 years there have always been several conflicts between criminal networks and gene communities, which have varied in intensity and which have had and continue to pose an imminent threat of retaliation. Until 2011, the work against criminal gangs in Oslo Police District was organised as a separate project called X-ray. The responsibility for thread control was introduced from 2011 as a fixed component of the ordinary operation. The special professional responsibility for combating criminal nightlife in Oslo has since been added to the section for Special Operations of the Organized Crime Section. As a targeted measure, since 2011, the Organized Crime Section has had the qualitative objective of averting and preventing serious isolated incidents in the criminal gangs. Oslo Police District reports that during the period 2012-2016 they have averted 11 specific killing plans in Oslo’s rendezvous, and also prevented or averted 27 serious single events such as retaliation and planned violent settlement in the public space. At the same time, they have seized 67 firearms from criminal gang societies in Oslo. This is done to reduce their ability to use firearms. Despite these results, the criminal communities continue to be a challenge that the police are concerned about. It has been focused on extracting individuals or networks in a reusable environment with a high status in the environment in question. Removing role models also helps to dampen recruitment and weaken their activities. Oslo police districts state that they will continue their targeted work even in 2017 to avert and prevent serious single incidents. Furthermore, important cross-border prevention cooperation between the police and the urban areas is highlighted. The police also have several tools, including: through the management and foreign management track, through inter alia: withdrawal of weapons, withdrawal of authorisation and expulsion. This is also an important instrument as part of the overall fight against crime. As I see it, the efforts of the Oslo police reflect the leadership given at the overall political level. The government's goal for the 2017 criminal justice chain is a more effective chain of criminal proceedings, strengthening the prevention of crime and reducing serious crime. This is a continuation of the main objectives in 2016. The effectiveness of the criminal action chain and the strengthening of prevention are general areas of action that will also serve to increase efforts against criminal environments and networks. The last of the three main objectives gives a direct lead towards giving priority to just serious crime. These priorities have also been followed up by the Advocate General, among others. by clarifying in the 2016 targets and priorities that the threat from organised criminal environments and serious crime needs to be addressed with sufficient seriousness. A well-organised and powerful police force with the right tools will be a fundamental prerequisite for success in the fight against organised crime. The effort must be knowledge-based and targeted. This work is resource-intensive and requires both proper prioritisation and sufficient resources. The government has been doing police work since the government change in 2013, with a total increase in the police budget of about 2.5 billion. kr. There are real increases, it's corrected for pensions, prices and wages. However, in the period from 31 December 2013 until 31 December 2016, 1,644 employees have also been added. The near-police reform, adopted by the Stortinget in the summer of 2015, is also to improve the ability of the police to combat serious crime, including efforts against criminal networks and environments. All police districts, including Oslo, are now establishing their new organisation. What is important to remember is that the intention behind the reform is that the police as a whole should be better able to meet and deal with the crime challenges of the future, which also challenges the quality of police work. A key objective of the reform is to strengthen prevention as the primary policy of the police. The fight against the heaviest criminal gangs in the Oslo area is important, as they have the capacity to carry out crime that appears to be both serious and socially harmful. This type of crime is clearly within the priorities given. I trust that the police will take this threat that criminal gangs represent, seriously, that the situation will be followed closely, and that necessary action will be taken when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1227	I thank the Council of State for the article and for the fact that he, as the new Council of State, is really involved in this topic. I'd like to try to describe the seriousness. I talk to many people who know the rest of the world well, both the police and people who are close to them and who are also working prevention. They're telling us about structures that are very advanced. You have your own groups or people who stand for violence, who stand for fear – do the things I told you about in my main post – and who are willing to take the punishment for it. They have their own people who are so-called ‘drug lords’, who are responsible for drug trafficking and for the enforcement of who is to sell where. They have their own people who are responsible for other crime and who run illegal gambling, labour crime and bank fraud. So there are multi-criminals that go into a lot of different fields. They have their own people who are recruiting young people, and it's probably most worrying to me, what I told you about recruitment meetings where eyewitnesses tell you about quite large groups of young people who aim to join these gangs – unfortunately. They have their own people who are responsible for money laundering, handling the money. It's that part of the gang's business that's at least talked about, that it's not boasted about, and that's the most difficult to penetrate for the police. They have their own people to provide technology, equipment, various advanced fighting equipment, firearms and tracking equipment to track someone, for example. competitors providing bulletproof vests, etc. There is quite a lot of access to weapons out there, and it's also worrying about the fact that there are elements that are known to also have sympathies in the direction of groups like the Prophet's Ummah, who have been linked to the rest of the world. This is precisely the link that the Council of State also referred to from Europol that organised crime and terrorism can unfortunately be linked. It is an advanced criminal structure. When people are taken, they are often taken for some violent incidents in the street. But what we're missing is someone who can work more concentratedly with these environments over time, so that when you take them for some events, you can know enough to also develop the paragraph on organized crime. If you can use custody, you can hit them stronger, because these are people who are repeatedly being taken for violence and spreading fear in the environment in Oslo and elsewhere. I want to ask the Council of State if he wants to go into more detail on how to work with these environments – go more and see if a good structure is in place – because I fear that when you press the same structure down in all the police districts, it will be wrong for a district like Oslo, which has these kind of big challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1244	Again, I have great respect for the involvement of the representative of Bohemia in this matter. I share his commitment in the sense that the Oslo and Oslo areas have specific challenges that we should pay extra attention to, and that must be properly addressed. The management of these kinds of issues should be followed up to the greatest extent, and so will be done. Even in the light of the police reform, I will follow this very closely, simply because the need can be absolutely present. It is not the case that A4 solutions should be used in all contexts, and I think most people see that the capital area has special challenges to address. I think we should be a little careful about using the term "parallel society" when we talk about urban areas and areas in Oslo. The point ‘Existing parallel communities in the Oslo police district?’, in the report published just before the New Year, shows that police officers do not perceive that there are parallel communities — that this is a real challenge in Oslo. What emerges shows that in Oslo police districts there are challenges related to single actors and to environments, but the concept of ‘parallel communities’ may seem to be neither useful nor comprehensive to describe the challenges we see here. So there are no geographical areas in the police district that are perceived to be beyond police control or where it is perceived as unsafe for the police to enter. This is also in stark contrast to what we experience in our neighbouring country, Sweden, where we had recently demonstrated events in Rinkeby, Stockholm, which shows that we are in a completely different situation than we are in Norway. Maybe you can talk about it and use the term 'parallel communities'. I think that is what we should be doing in Norway, because we have a policy that has not given us the challenges that our neighbouring country has faced – precisely through a controlled and limited immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1251	First, thank you to the interpellant. This is an excellent example of the fact that knowledge of the reality for which the representative is the ombudsman can become a real discussion in Stortinget. It's a serious reality the representative takes up in his interpellation. Competence environments are not created overnight. Oslo police districts have worked well for a long time to build their pointed environments and fight crime – environments that are specialists in organised crime, gain, punishment, violence, morality and violence in close relationships. Fortunately, crime in Norway is falling, and it is also falling among young people. That, I think, is why Norway is a society in which we have had good instruments to combat crime. We have had links between welfare development, care and support for those in the process of falling out. But organised crime is a serious threat to society – both for the good life of individuals and also to society as a whole linked to the economy and the security of people. Now we hear that in eagerness to create a police force, the obvious differences in our country are not taken into account. Agder is no less than Oslo, but it's different. Interpellant has raised concerns in Oslo — about active recruitments in youth settings and needs to be combated. With this as a backstop we have to be careful so the best thing is not to be the enemy of good, that not the police in their eagerness to create better police risks weakening professional environments because they don't fit into the new boxes of the Police Directorate. I believe that the Minister of Justice must be able to guarantee that the reorganisation will not go beyond existing environments of competence and thus beyond the fight against crime. It requires not only that, as I heard the Minister of Justice say, one should follow up. You also have to have some concrete thoughts about how to follow this up, because this is a big challenge, and the question I might have experienced was that the Minister of Justice was not well enough inside his post. I hope he can strengthen it in the further debate. Organised crime includes a range of offences, but it is a common denominator: maximum money and minimum risk. It is worrying that there has been a shift in work against trafficking in human beings. In the past, the focus was on taking the big fish, those behind the crime. Now you seem to focus on sending out as many prostitutes as possible. No one checks if they can be victims of human trafficking. The police pick up the girls in the street and get them out. What's the signal to the rearmen? Well, it's just to keep sending ladies to Norway, because there's no risk of getting caught here. And that's not a good fight against crime. The current policy can help to weaken the long-term efforts of the police against trafficking in human beings and, therefore, work against organised crime, because these are the same peoples we are talking about. It is the same people who organise prostitution, and it is the same people who support the organisation of drugs and illegal weapons and run a black economy in Norway. It's like a mouse hole in the core wall of society. If there are too many such holes, the construction will rage. We have to go after the money trail, and the crime committed in everyday environments needs to be put into a wider context, and the instrument has to be such that it can meet the challenges of local environments. The Labour Party has asked a number of questions related to police district practices. Among other things, we have called for the effects of the red tape and efficiency reform, the consequences it has had on the practical exercise of services on the floor, or outside where people meet the police. I should also like to hear the Minister of Justice say whether he can guarantee that it does not happen, that is not why we feel that there is less focus on organized crime now than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1266	Thank you to the interpellant, who once again shows a genuine and genuine commitment to an important matter. We see developments in Norway and in other countries where organised crime is increasing, it is becoming more brutal, and it is becoming increasingly advanced. This debate is mainly about the instruments of justice policy, but I would nevertheless dwell a little on the fact that this issue also has a significant value dimension and a social dimension. What we see is that these communities offer youth in action a connection. They are offered to get a mastery feeling in an environment, and they have a background that may not have given so much mastery feeling in the past in youth. These nightlife settings also provide social protection within the framework that the community can offer. But there are tight frames, and there are strict frames. It is strong inner discipline, and it has a great and heavy price both for society and for those who participate. Fear is used as an active tool to keep the threads together. Violence is used both internally and externally – for internal disciplines internally and for fear externally. The price also means a significant degree of crime. You're being transferred to a criminal racetrack that can be significant. It is not least that this reproduction and this membership, the price of their own so-called freedom within the gangs, is paid with the impotence of others, who are thus victims of crime. In addition to the purely judicial instruments, I would also like to stress that we need to ensure that we have an active and ongoing prevention strategy to combat this. And we need to have a clear exit strategy, so that those who want to get out of these environments can be caught up and offered a safe and good way out and over in the normal community. Then go to justice. The near-police reform is based in many ways on what we said in Stortinget during the process of reporting. St. 7 for 2010–2011, The Fight Against Organised Crime, from the previous government period, where the Stortingen gathered on an important key strategy in the fight against organised crime and thus also re-formation. It has continued in the near-police reform and the broad agreement there that we should build up professional environments in the police that will meet this in a competent and good way. Not least, society shows that we can streamline the competence and resources to meet this significant challenge. This is how we can avoid what we can unfortunately see in our closest neighbouring countries, both in Denmark and in Sweden, that these crowds are, in many places, the biggest challenge for justice policy in many of the countries. For the time being, we are not there in Norway, but we need to be on guard, and we need to be active. It's one of the most important backbones of the near-police reform. Back to the bigotry of the last period on the fight against organised crime: there was one of the main strategies to follow the money tracks. The money and the economic benefits of crime are the driving force behind these environments. We need to strengthen the fight to track down the money, withdraw the money and have the tools to capture the movements that exist. There I would like to mention in particular the establishment of the Centre for Labour Crime as an important tool to do this. I would also like to mention the decisions we made in the Storting on hidden coercive agents, which provide the police with tools to capture these environments, which use advanced technology, in a good way, and get behind encryption and other tools used to communicate and transmit orders and commands from the respective systems. The size has given the police the opportunity, but we must also follow this closely from the top and the government, so that we avoid the developments we see in Europe and in our nearest neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1281	There is every reason to discuss how to combat serious and organised crime. We should do that at regular intervals, and we should do it now, not because statistics show that crime is increasing – it goes down, and that's good, so we don't have to draw a wrong picture of Norway. I also think we should be a little bit more careful than what some of my co-representatives are drawing a one-sided negative picture of our neighbouring countries. I think the situation there is also more nuanced than what comes out here. But what we agree on, as several of my co-representatives have been involved – it was Kari Henriksen and now Anders B. Werep in the end – is that maybe the most important thing we have to do when we're going to fight this kind of serious crime is to keep a firm eye on the money and go after it, because that's where the core lies. In terms of any other crime, in the development of what we can look at right-hand extreme threats, which are serious, extremism in different facets that prove to be a serious threat to society, there is also money inside the picture, but in terms of the type of crime we are discussing today, there is money that is the driving force. We need a much stronger bet to go after the money, to find the backers, to find those who do the money laundering. There, the representative Henriksen reminded us of what is happening on the human trade side, where it seems to be fairly clear in Norway, and where the victims are being sent out without protection, and it is going on over and over again. The second is what we see in the labour market, where there is widespread labour-life crime in Norway today. Gross money is made, and it's often mixed into this type of crime. So doing something about this is important, and I and SV believe that the government's efforts in that area are too weak. We are proposing stronger efforts, we are proposing stronger resources, and the Riksrevision has also examined efforts to combat crime in the workplace and not just put a stamp of approval on what is happening. Then it's about the police. It is important to build up these environments of competence that you are now talking about, but then it also has to be that you actually follow up what you have promised, and that, for example, the existence of own radicalisation contacts, which should be in all police districts, that these disciplines actually exist. I'm not sure about that, but what I'm very sure is that the organisation is now weakening the ability to do prevention work locally. Because then you have to be local, go into the neighbourhoods, get acquainted with the youth, be one of the things you can talk to if you're in danger of being radicalized or getting caught up in by these environments, because that's what happens. Young people are not driving this development, but young people are being recruited, and it is important that the police are present locally. In its budgets, SV has proposed that we invest much more in prevention, lowthreshold services, building municipalities on prevention in these areas, including volunteers and these exit programmes, because it is not easy to get out of this once you have entered – it is deadly to try to break out of it if you are in it first. There we've been running exit programs, and, unfortunately, as we do with a lot of other things, we're doing it on a project basis. This isn't something that's just needed in Oslo either. People from all over the country are recruited, and the programs we have to have must be firm, permanent, because this is not something that goes over. We're going to need this all the time, and we're going to need to build up the expertise that's needed to get those who want it out of these environments as fast as possible and in a safe way. It can also help solve the build-up of environments that we are now talking about. I think that the Council of State was a little weak in its explanation of how he thinks the police, which is his main task, should organize this work. How are these environments of competence now being built up? Where are they? How are they supposed to work? Do you now have your own radicalization contacts in place everywhere? Is this present? Are there policemen present in local settings who can go and get acquainted with these young people who are at risk of getting involved? And finally, the Council of State agrees that these exit programmes, for example: may not be a project, but must be a continuous work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1292	I would like to thank you for the very good contributions, both from Kari Henriksen, Anders B. Werp and Karin Andersen. In a lot of what was said here, there's a recipe for attacking these things in a strong and good way. I want to tell you about a situation at the latest one night last week when I was with a parent at a center in Oslo. He described to me how another father there had been knocked down with iron bars the night before. He described that there is still violence related to drug addiction in the youth community there. A lot is not even recorded by the media, because they don't want to talk to either the police or the media. The insecurity he describes in his area, I take seriously. I am pleased that a Council of State with a background in the Progress Party is not concerned with using the word «parallel society». I also underlined in my introduction that we do not have it, but that I believe we have to take the danger signals very seriously, and that we have to agree on it – agree to take the passages we see, seriously. I went through the attempts to build areas, territories, where some criminal gangs demand exclusive rights to crime, especially drug addiction. There is a lot of violence and conflict when you compete with other environments. They actually have areas where they have a kind of own watchtower against other criminals coming in, and against the police. I could also mention examples of stoning police cars in Oslo, which we have had in recent times. The police are concerned not to stigmatize any areas, just as I am, so they are very careful to use words about and descriptions of certain places. But we should not underestimate these signs of danger, nor underestimate what people and families experience in any local environment. Young people in particular are aware of this, who are afraid of being bullied almost as easily as they do not want to buy drugs. We've been taught a lesson when it's grown up a new, dangerous gang environment like the police and anyone working on this, describes as one of the most offensive things in Oslo, in a city I mentioned. It has grown as we have worked on these issues. It is important that the Council of State responds a little more closely to how he will follow up, as representatives Kari Henriksen and Karin Andersen also mentioned. I think following the economic trail is one key. It was because you followed the economic trail, which was used by the replication project, in the four–five years we had, got the B-thread. But it's not done overnight, it takes years of working to renovate it. And that is what is required – a long-term, systematic effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1309	First of all, I think it's important that we reconcile this with the level that we really see. I fully agree when the representative, Mr Bøhler, announces that there are no positive developments and that give rise to concern. At the same time, we should also be reluctant to create an image that is not correct, if we make it as if we are in a situation where we are in the process of slipping into parallel societies. But that means that we need to be alert – we still need to make efforts in this area to prevent that development from taking place in Norway as well. Then it's about working along many tracks. I believe that fundamental in the police reform is precisely the modernisation of the police that will provide a basis for combating this type of crime as well. It's all about investigation, and it's about building an environment of expertise that's capable of dealing with what's more complex crime, and that's more difficult to get an overview of. But we're going to have in mind that the big picture tells us about a crime trend where the indicators point in a positive direction, that is. that crime in general goes down. Then I agree that we should in no way ignore the economic trail; it is an important part of the follow-up in order to reveal serious crime. We know that there's a trace that works. I put a little question mark by the fact that it seems that the Workers' Party is about to distance itself from a reform for which they agreed to form a majority in the Stortinget, and which is now actually being fulfilled in line with what the Stortinget asked for. It is possible that we have something to do with approaching a choice, but at least we have to implement the reform that Stortinget has asked the government to implement, and that will also produce results. But regardless of the reform, at the same time, it is about strengthening the police and giving the police the resources they need to fight serious crime, and that is what this government has done. Since we joined, we've strengthened the police by 2.5 billion. kr. We've increased the number of police officers by 1,800 since accession, and this year we're going to beat all the records in terms of additions to the police. So the situation is designed to ensure that these challenges to crime too can be solved in a good way. It's about resources, and it's about a reform that's absolutely necessary to meet the crime scene in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1320	That is when the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1336	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1345	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for a very constructive tone in dealing with this matter. And then I would like to address the proposal that we in SV are co-sponsors for. A little about the background to the proposal: this is a proposal which a broad range of parties contributed to the promotion, and which was actually promoted and planned to be addressed in the context of the nature diversity communication, where the Committee succeeded in finding a broad majority to preserve nature and reinforce the message that the Council of State Helgesen had presented to the Stortinget. So the committee decided to raise the issue of the East Mark and the Preike Chair and give it a little more thorough consideration, and I would like to thank the Committee for the opportunity to do so. I think that everyone in the committee who has participated in the subsequent rounds we've had seems to be a wise and sensible thing to do, which has given us a new kind of transparency, which has enabled us to shed light on the national park plans for East Mark and the Preikestoll in a good way. The question of having a new national park plan was discussed and voted down in Stortingen in the context of the treatment of the nature diversity communication. The last time we had a new national park map was in 1993, and there is a majority in the committee – but unfortunately not a majority on the Stortinget – who want a new national park plan, a new rolling of the whole plan. That proposal is going to fall here today. But we note what the Council of State writes to us in its letter, namely that there are going to be detailed reviews, where one will look at the possibilities for, among other things. extension of existing national parks. We have noticed that, and I want to say on my own behalf that I hope that it will mean that we get more national parks, and that you listen to the municipalities and not least to the counties, which have an overall regional role. Let me then go into what we agree on: there is a broad consensus in the Committee on National Parks of Norway. We are pleased that processes are still in progress with the extension of existing national parks and the creation of new ones. The Committee points out that the protection of natural areas in Norway is an important part of international efforts to protect species and ecosystems. The Protected Sites can be seen as a common national heritage established to ensure a representative sample of habitat types for the future. One of the natures of which there is too little is just forest. The members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens clearly stress that nature and ecosystems are under pressure, both in Norway and in the rest of the world. That is why we want more protection. There's destruction of nature at a pace that we've rarely seen our husband do. We also see positive aspects of national parks, in particular, because national parks have an attraction for tourism and can help to build up under-nutrition in a green way. It's something I think it's worth paying attention to. There are three very specific national parks that we have discussed: One is Lofotodden National Park. The reason why it is lifted is the following: Government parties assume that they should listen to the municipalities when it comes to setting up national parks or not. The Lofotodden is a national park that is widely welcomed by the municipalities involved, but yet the government has not said that this is a national park that will be established. I want to challenge the Council of State to respond to that: when can we expect to see the establishment of the Lofotodden National Park, for which the Right should go in when they stress the principle that it is the municipalities that will decide this. The second is Preikestolen National Park. There is more disagreement among the municipalities involved. However, we support the establishment of the National Park and believe it should be realised. Then it's Eastern, and I'll also come back to it in a later post, a second post from me. The eastern part of the country is a national park where several rounds have been made. A broad proposal to protect large parts of the East has met with considerable resistance. Instead, the current Oslo City Council – the red-green – has provided a minimum solution and has proposed to the municipalities that national parks should be established in their own areas in the municipality of Enebakk. All the other municipalities, including Oslo, are in favour of this, but Enebakk Municipality has voted against. I think that's stupid. We'll have to discuss it further, but I think there should be a national park in East Marka.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1368	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1373	First, thank you to the rapporteur for a good report and for a good work on the matter. This is a matter that has been in Stortinget for almost a year, so it is good that we finally have to deal with it. The Labour Party was among the proposers for what is today's case. We are also behind all the motions for resolutions in the vote, although unfortunately they do not seem to get a majority when we are going to vote later today. The large national park plan was presented by Thorbjørn Berntsen in the Gro-Registration at the beginning of the 1990s. It's given our country a number of national parks that we're all proud of. Even when these parks came, there was an uprising, but today, almost 30 years later, most of us are very pleased with what has been achieved. Important natural areas have been protected for eternity, and there has been much to say for Norway as a country. We believe, like what we meant when we dealt with the natural diversity message about a year ago, that it would have been right to start a work on a supplementary national park plan. There are today several places where there is a local process for setting up a national park. One of the places is Lofotden. I agree with the case rapporteur, it would be interesting to hear what the Council of State thinks about it, because here we have just one case where all the municipalities concerned are positive. We therefore believe it should be possible for the government to take decisions quickly in this matter. We also have two concrete proposals for a national park that we are discussing today. The first concerns the east. The establishment of Eastmark as a national park would be a unique contribution to Norwegian natural heritage. As in maybe the only capital of the world, you'll be able to stand in the middle of the center here at the Stortinget and just by a short bus ride away get out into a national park. Oslo and Akershus are among the few states in the country that today do not have a national park. This could give them that. In Oslo, there is cross-political support for this, with the exception of the Progress Party. Both the new and the old city councils have supported the proposal. It must therefore be disappointing to Oslo Right that their own party traps on the Stortinget today do not support their proposals. Also in the Akershus municipalities we have seen great movement after the municipal elections in 2015. Positive decisions have been made in Ski, Rälingen and Lørenskog. As the rapporteur said, Enebakk's municipality still has counter performances. I want to tell them that it is important to listen to them, because there is no final decision we in the minority propose that we should make today. We're asking for an investigation. Then, of course, the municipalities that are critical must also be part of the further discussion, and their final opinion must of course be given weight. But I have great faith that if you had started such a process, you could come to an agreement on good solutions that everyone could stand behind. The area proposed as a national park is forest owned by the municipality of Oslo. We are therefore in the somewhat paradoxical situation that when Stortinget says no, the municipality of Oslo can instead go further under the scheme of voluntary forest protection. It would give the forest equal protection – if not stronger – but without any of the positive ringing effects for the municipality or for all of us as a nation. The other area that we in the minority are proposing today is the Preike Chair. The Preike chair has evolved into one of the most popular tourist destinations to reach on foot. The county councilman in Rogaland says that there are grounds to turn the Preikestool into a national park. Here too we see that there is disagreement among the municipalities. We also believe in this case that it would be right to proceed with an investigation and an assessment. Here too, of course, the municipalities must be included in a dialogue. Their final assessment must be given weight when an assessment is finally to be made of the establishment of a national park. I'll end by saying that I really think it's a bit of a shame that we haven't managed to come to an agreement today. I believe that there had initially been the basis for an agreement to look further at a process related to East Mark and the Preike Chair, which I thought it could be possible to gather a majority behind, instead of being a relatively large minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1394	Initially, this proposal for a representative included a recommendation to the Government to start work on the extension of the 1993 National Park Plan, including: with a view to establishing the Eastmark National Park and the Preikestolen National Park. A seminar was held in which municipalities and different organisations were presented with their views on the matter to the Committee. The case rapporteur has also been very active in trying to find agreed proposals and deserves commendation for his efforts. I would like to stress that there is a broad upturn in Norway’s national parks, and that processes are still in progress with the extension of existing parks and the creation of new ones – and that is good. The issue of national parks and various other forms of protection was also debated during the examination of the ‘Nature for Life’ report, and many proposals were promoted and received a majority, while other proposals were not used up in the main hall. Several of these proposals are now being found in this case. The government proposed and was assisted by the Stortinget to carry out a detailed additional work to assess new areas of protection, including any new national parks. Right-wing thinks this is a sensible approach to the question, and we support it. The representative proposal proposes to explore two specific areas for the creation of new national parks. One area is the Preikestolen in Rogaland, more specifically the municipalities Strand, Hjelmeland and Forsand, and includes both public and private land. I guess no one has stood on the edge of the Preike chair and looked down into the Light fjord that draws in doubt the values of that natural experience. I've done it myself. On the other hand, there is great political disagreement and local resistance about the need to create exactly a national park. Therefore, the right-hand side does not see any reason to initiate an investigation on this issue now. The second area where the establishment of a new national park is being considered is East Marka. Plans for such a park have been in progress for several years and in several variants, and there has sometimes been considerable disagreement and resistance among different municipalities and owners of land. The new feature of the current proposal is that the area includes the property of Oslo Municipality in Enebakk, and any other landowners who wish to contribute. Among other things, Ski Municipality announced in the hearing that they would like to contribute with their municipal forests. In principle, this proposal seems to be both good and feasible. The landowner, the municipality of Oslo, makes his property available, and the municipalities around it stand positive. The problem is that the municipality that has the entire area within its municipal boundary does not want to create or construct a national park, and they have good arguments for their view. The whole area lies within the land border and already enjoys good protection under the Land Law. The area in question is a central excursion area for the inhabitants of the municipality who need good accessibility, there are both residents and 90 cabins in the area, the drinking water source is there, and so is accommodation and catering. And not least, you are concerned about how to manage different protection purposes and the nature reserve that is there today. In the view of the Right, it would be sensible to assess all these issues in the state review that the government has launched. Part of this will also be to see whether the value of protection is sufficient to establish a national park under the Nature Diversity Act. I don't think there's much disagreement that a national park near the capital could give both residents and travellers a new dimension. The thoughts of such a park may not disappear with a decision, or lack of decision, here today, but the best option is to create a local consensus and a local commitment behind the plans. Overrun the municipality that actually has the entire area within its borders, I don't think it benefits in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1413	There are some parties in this room who have a very strong desire to create a national park in parts of the East, but the same parties obviously have problems with the fact that the political majority in the municipality that will be most affected by such protection is actually opposed. The Progress Party is committed to local self-government and requires local political consensus in the municipalities concerned and that the proposal meets the technical criteria for protection. In this case, the municipality that would have been most affected by such protection, Enebakk, has said a clear no in two rounds. The Progress Party expects this to be respected and local decisions to be emphasised. The area concerned, which is intended for the national park of East Marka, is a popular recreational area and a cabin area bordering one of Enebakk municipality's drinking water sources. The East is already strictly regulated by a separate law, the Marka Act, and the Progress Party believes that granting Eastmarka national park status will not change the protection status of the area to an appreciable extent, but could contribute to undermining the national park concept. A large number is made of the fact that the municipality of Oslo, as a large property owner in the area in question, which is intended to be established as the national park of Eastmarka, will actually have protection. There is nothing to suggest that the municipality of Oslo as the landowner cannot impose a protection on itself, without going the way to establishing a national park. Therefore, Oslo Municipality will decide on its own to apply for voluntary protection of the area under the Nature Diversity Act or under the Landa Act. In this case, account will be taken of existing natural and landscape values, in line with local interests and local involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1422	In connection with Stortingen's treatment of Report. St. 14 for 2015–2016 Nature of Life – Norwegian Action Plan for Nature Diversity put the Christian People's Party, like the majority of other parties in the Committee, behind a proposal for a supplementary national park plan. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a supplementary national park plan by 2020, with proposals for new national parks to ensure that a representative selection of Norwegian nature is protected as national parks.’ However, this was not adopted at the time of voting in the Grand Duchy. The proposal fell at that time, with 46 votes to 52. A similar proposal is now on the table, in the form of a representative proposal, which also contains two concrete proposals for new national parks. Of course, we stand for what we meant when the nature diversity message was dealt with. An additional round of comprehensive assessment of the additional protection needs is needed. Among other things, there is a need to look at the protection of coastal watercourse nature and to see if the arrival of existing national parks is good enough. We agree that Norway has a fairly good coverage of national parks, but we see the need for an additional plan to complete this work. The specific areas of the East Mark and the Preikestool should be assessed in such a context. Much argues that it may be right to protect these areas as national parks, but such extensive and permanent protection decisions should be made as a result of a more thorough and comprehensive issue to the Stortinget than a Document 8 proposal – with all due respect for both the present proposal and the proposers, I would nevertheless argue it. There is considerable local resistance in both areas, and in order to achieve the best possible process and understanding and anchoring, we believe that such protection decisions should be further elucidated. It should also be harmless to agree to for lots in this room that are skeptical of additional national parks. Knowledge and overall assessment are always tricked. We know that our national parks in a special way both protect and stimulate outdoor activities and become even more valuable as tourist areas in the future. This form of protection has proved to be effective and appropriate in several ways, and we are meeting a supplementary plan. The supplementary plan should also shed light on East Marka and the Preikestol. I am promoting this Christian People's Party proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1440	The representative Steinar Reiten has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1445	The first Norwegian National Park was established in Rondane in 1962. Today we have 39 national parks, and as many have pointed out, they have broad support for the population. National parks are still being set up, both through the 1993 process and through some local initiatives. The purpose of national parks is to protect a representative sample of Norwegian nature. Then it is a little surprising that in these processes there has been an absolute demand for local agreement on protection. It is important to have local processes, it is also important to work together with municipalities, but this is where the majority raises an absolute requirement that you do not have in terms of landscape conservation areas, or in terms of nature reserves. Nature reserves have more protective provisions than a national park. On the left, it is important that the Stortinget, even if we are going to work with the locals, still assumes responsibility for maintaining the breadth of Norwegian nature, and there is no doubt that some natural habitats are not covered by national parks today. Lower-lying, productive forest is one of them, which is just mentioning the proposal for a national park in the East. Of course, we think it is right to go into a new supplementary national park plan where we look at what we are doing today and have good processes, but at the same time we are willing to take a national responsibility for having a breadth in Norwegian national parks that makes us include the most important of nature types nationally. Then to the individual proposals. The pulpit is one of the proposals. Rogaland is one of the states that do not yet have a national park. The Preike chair itself is a unique attraction and a unique tourist destination that many people know, also internationally. There is no doubt that there are also items of pristine nature here. It has landscape types and nature in the surrounding area that have a value that makes it possible for this to be a national park, and can become a national park, which has also been established by the County of Rogaland in its assessments. In the case of the east, no lower-lying, productive forest is covered by national park protection and protection as a national park today. It should have been in the East. To the surprise of many, including in Oslo, I think, there are continuous forest areas in the East that have a value equivalent to that of a national park. This has been working with the municipality for a long time. As a city council, I started my own job in 2012. A decision was taken by the City Council in 2013, in a slightly larger area than is now proposed, but there has been a comprehensive process in which the Municipality of Oslo is willing to place its areas at the disposal of a national park. It's to get additional value out of the area, because the Municipality of Oslo already takes responsibility today. This forest is preserved as if it were a national park, but it is clear that the name ‘national park’ gives the city and region an added value that can be used to demonstrate this unique area and also to market it as a unique new quality for both the city and the region. As pointed out here, you can walk the path of voluntary protection under the Nature Diversity Act – I hope the Municipality of Oslo does – or you can do it under the Marka Act. I hope you do, too. It will be a step in the right direction, but it is clear that it is the name and the brand name ‘national park’ that gives it an additional meaning that both the city and the region can use to a greater extent. There is no doubt that other cities also have national parks nearby, and I see no reason why Oslo and Akershus should not use the possibility of having a national park to market the unique values that you have in the vicinity of the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1467	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a very thorough and good work on this matter, and thank you to the Committee for proper consideration and a good debate. The setting we are dealing with today has four elements. There is a proposal for a supplementary national park plan, a proposal for the establishment of a Preikestolen National Park, a proposal for the establishment of a Eastern National Park and a proposal for the review of existing national parks with a view to enlargement. Three of the proposals are promoted by the Labour Party, the Left, the SV and the Green Party, and the proposal for a supplementary national park plan is also supported by the Christian People's Party, as far as I understand. I'm very happy about that, because it shows that there is a great willingness to take the Norwegian national parks as a system one step further. Unfortunately, we now have a majority consisting of the Centre Party, the Advance Party and the Right, which will stand in the way of this natural progress, which means that during this process of growth, work on Norwegian national parks is stagnating. The history of Norwegian national parks is the story of some of the really great gifts of outdoor and nature protection to Norway. National parks link nature protection, outdoor life and identity and have done so for over 50 years, and Jotunheimen, Rondane, Børgefjell, Dividalen, Hardangervidda, Breheimen and the others are among the national wealth that creates life-stricken and experiences for hundreds of thousands of people, attracting very many tourists and incomes to the country. It was already in 1904 that the then president of the Norwegian Tourist Association, Yngvar Nielsen, argued to preserve what he called fragments of Norwegian nature, and asked if one should not like a part of Norway to allow it to preserve its original nature for the coming generations. The question that has to be asked now is whether we are satisfied with what we have, when we know the following: we still don't have a single national park that provides real protection of the nature that is most important to most of the Nordics in everyday life, namely the lowlands forest in the East. We have still protected a completely insignificant part of our coastal nature, and we have almost not protected any of what is Norway's sovereign largest and most important ecosystem, the sea, just as large plans are being presented for the even greater importance that the ecosystem will have for Norway in the future. There is still a very natural potential for major extensions of national parks such as Jotunheimen and others, and not least for looking at cross-border cooperation on national park protection in the North Callot. In a 2010 report, the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research concluded that the main areas of natural diversity in Norway are under-secured by protection, and that is because much of national park protection is linked to mountains — fine but not sufficiently representative. In the case of the East, we simply have to observe with some wonder that the Right has now taken up the competition with the Central Party to be the most fundamental towards all that is associated with new nature protection. On Saturday, the newspaper concluded that 98,5 pst. The population of the eastern part of the country lives in municipalities that support an investigation of the Eastern Marka National Park, and the local people elected in Oslo, Oppegård, Lørenskog, Rälingen and Ski, together with over 700,000 inhabitants, are positive, while the political majority in Enebakk, with about 11,000 inhabitants – probably quite a lot of them want a national park, otherwise – is opposed to such an investigation. We also know that there is talk of Oslo's own forests, which are already managed for protection, and we know above all, not least from the experience of the Outer Hyler National Park, in the new Fäder National Park and in the upcoming Raet National Park, that for the municipalities that are covered by protection themselves, the possibilities of marketing, profiling, travel, business development are very good and very great, and the disadvantages of existing activities are negligible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1486	We have already protected significant areas in Norway. The last time I checked, there were 46 national parks and 174 nature reserves of larger and smaller size. Many national parks are significant in different parts of the country and cover relatively large areas. If one is to go further and protect additional land such as national parks in Norway, there are a few criteria that must be met. One is what the Council of State also points to in its reply to the Committee, that one must adhere strictly to the technical criteria relating to the protection of an area such as a national park, i.e. that one does not contribute to eroding the concept of a national park. The second criterion that should be met is that a local agreed to move forward with the National Park Plans. So it simply has to be a local ownership of and a local consensus on the establishment of a national park. The fact that we are going to sit here in Stortinget and propose through a Document 8 proposal to investigate new national parks without a local consensus is not very fortunate in the opinion of the Centre Party. This applies both to the Preikestolen and to the East. As regards the Preikestolen, all three municipalities involved, Strand, Hjelmeland and Forsand, are skeptical to a new national park. They will be affected by it and they have either negative decisions attached to it or negatively expressed their opinion on the establishment. In the case of Ostmarka, the whole area – sea of the Municipality of Oslo is the landowner of the area – is located in the municipality of Enebakk, and the municipality of Enebakk decided so late last December, with a large majority, that they did not want to create a national park in the area. The east is already subject to significant restrictions under the law on land, but what is not linked to the law on land is forestry and forestry, but I think that the owner of the land where the sea will be able to care for it. There is nothing to prevent the owner of the land, the municipality of Oslo, from refraining from logging if the owner wants it. The centre party is of the opinion that further discussions are likely to take place on the establishment of national parks in different places in Norway, but that in this case there is a discussion that must come from below, and it must be based on local agreement between the different municipalities affected. It would be totally unnatural if the Stortinget, on its own and contrary to local consensus, would decide to proceed with the investigation of the National Park. The centre party will therefore not vote in favour of any of the proposals that have been tabled on this subject today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1501	Almost a year ago, Stortinget addressed Nature for life. At that time, natural diversity policy was addressed in its full and full scope. The Storting provided the basis for the long-term work on taking care of Norwegian nature. Now we follow up the decision of the Storting so that we can achieve the national and international biodiversity objectives. Area protection is one of the means of achieving these objectives. Today it is approx. 17 pst. by the protection of mainland Norway. National parks account for about half of the total population. 10 pst. of this. Most of our natures are well covered in protection. The exception is marine areas and forests, where we still have a way to achieve sufficient representativeness. The long-term goal that Stortinget set for 10 pst. forest protection is therefore important. Environmental values and marine resources must be safeguarded for future generations through sustainable use and protection. The government set up in 2016 four new marine protection areas and further 14 additional protection processes are under way. In line with the Stortinget's request decision during the processing of the Stortingen notification, I have started work on a plan for marine protection areas, with which I will return to Stortinget. Significant areas have been protected in Norway. Before the 1993 National Park Plan, there were 18 national parks in the mainland. Now we have 39. In addition, we have seven on Svalbard. In 2010, the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research demonstrated in its scientific evaluation that existing protection was somewhat deficient for habitat types in lower coastal areas. However, new comprehensive protective plans are not necessary to seal these holes. I am pleased that last May the majority of the population agreed with the government's proposal to draw up limited, county protection plans to complement today's protection areas. In some places it will be appropriate to extend existing protection areas; in others, new ones will have to be added. The type of protection chosen depends on the nature values to be protected. The Directorate-General for the Environment is now preparing the work on supplementary protection. It is most cost-effective for all new protection planning processes to be channelled through this work. However, the continuation of forest protection and marine protection will continue in its own established processes. The quality of Norwegian national parks shall be high. It's not an end in itself to create the most parks possible. Only special quality nature is given such a quality stamp. The Raet National Park and the Virgin Land National Park, which were established just before Christmas, are important supplements in the marine environment. The proposal for the Lofotodden National Park is now being discussed in the Environment Directorate. The Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, SV and the Environmental Party The Green Party proposed to create a new national park plan also during the discussion of the nature diversity report. The majority of the population did not support this proposal, and I think that was wise. At the same time, I believe that the need for new protection should be seen together. It's going to be done by the government through the upcoming state-of-the-art supplemental protection processes. I will keep Stortinget informed about the progress of this work. It is gratifying when there are local demands for the creation of new national parks. It is natural to consider such proposals, such as: East Marka and the Preikestola, as part of the supplementary protection. Then we will, among other things: assess whether the areas have natural qualities which satisfy the requirements of the Nature Diversity Act for national parks. National parks include large geographical areas, as opposed to, for example: smaller nature reserves. The establishment of national parks should therefore be based on local policy prior to the launch of resource-requiring protection planning processes. Lack of local political anchoring of national parks may make it difficult to achieve good, sustainable management, which is necessary to maintain values in a long-term perspective. Therefore, it is not just a matter of principle. There are very good practical reasons why there should be local consensus behind the establishment of national parks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1526	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1531	My question is about Lofotodden National Park and its possible establishment. The councils were also inside it in their posts. The Government Parties attach great importance to the views of municipalities in setting up new national parks. In the case of Lofotodden National Park, there is complete disintegration among the municipalities concerned. The majority of the Committee notes that they wish the government to come back with a decision in this matter in the context of the revision. The Council of State has said that it is now under consideration in the Environment Directorate. Will the Council of State do what he can to bring this matter to the attention of this magnificence period? When will the matter come from the Environment Directorate to the Ministry of Climate and Environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1538	It is true, as the representative Ljunggren points out, that local consensus is an important principle and an important starting point for protection, but a professional assessment is also an important starting point, and it is therefore important that such matters are carefully assessed and addressed in the Environment Directorate. That's the case with the Lofotden. I can't now answer when this comes, but when it comes, we're going to take it to treatment in the department. But to say whether it can be clear before the revised national budget, I am unable to say now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1543	I have two questions. One is about Lofotodden National Park, and it is quite simply: would the Council invite the members of the Committee, if he were to land, to make it a Lofotodden National Park in line with the wishes of the municipalities, so that we can bathe together on the outside? That's the one question. The second question is more related to the East. The Council of State, by letter to the Committee of 18 March 2016, is very clear that the Government considers that it wishes to focus on the state reviews before concluding the extension of existing or new national parks. He thinks it's wisest to take these rounds of national parks on that occasion. In addition, he points out that there is a need for a limited supplement with the protection of natural habitats that is currently poorly covered, and forest in lower-lying areas of the East is one of the types of nature that are poorly covered. Then my question is very simple: does the Council of State rule out the possibility of creating a national park in Enebakk in connection with these supplements?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1552	I'm ready to bathe in both national parks and other places if the opportunity affords, including members of the committee. It's happened before, and it can happen again. With regard to the issue of East Mark and Enebak, it is in many ways a paradox that all the municipalities, except Enebak, want to establish a national park, and that the areas concerned in the municipality that does not want it are owned by Oslo that wants it. But we must have as our starting point that there should be agreement, and as I said in my post, it is important not only as a principle, but as a very practical measure that the municipalities agree on this. It's about how to manage national parks. Then there is a need to do professional work on the quality of protection values, and that work is not done in the East, but it is natural to do in the county work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1561	Thank you so much for that answer. I see it as a clear invitation to bathe in Lofoten. A follow-up question about Eastmark: it's okay that the Council of State places emphasis on the locality in the context of the establishment of the National Park, and I fully agree with the Council of State in the paradox of the situation that the landowner, i.e. the Municipality of Oslo, can go further with locally-initiated protection, and Enebakk does not have the same opportunities to oppose this. And where neither the Council of State nor any other party – not even the Advance Party – demands local consensus when a landowner wants local protection. Some of the things that lie in the possibilities of protection there are just restoration protection, i.e. restoration protection, where you can see that the natural values will increase if this is unaffected for a period of time. So the question is, does the Council of State have no intention of excluding the possibilities for Oslo to carry out a process of local protection of the area in Enebak?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1568	We take as a starting point that local wishes and local initiatives should be carefully addressed. For example: forest protection is, of course, the principle of voluntary forest protection, whether it be private forest owners, municipal forest owners or the State itself. Then there is a technical assessment of the protection quality, and it cannot therefore be excluded that forest protection could be relevant in a case such as this. But now I understand that the desire for a national park is partly concerned with protecting qualities which, moreover, are largely protected already, but not least about getting the profile, identity and marketing potential that a national park status would provide. So I don't want to ignore the fact that the process and the dialogue around the idea of a national park is going to continue, despite the fact that we're not there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1573	It is not likely that any of the proposals opening up a future establishment of the National Park at the Preikestool will have a majority today. At the same time, there is a sense of urgency that the pressure in the area of tourist traffic during the summer season is in the process of creating major problems both in terms of natural wear and tear and with repeated situations where local rescue services have to enter in order to pick up tourists. Does the Council of State think that there is supply and demand to control the traffic to the Preikestool if it does not become the National Park there, or how does he view it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1579	This is a very good and a very important question. We have tourist magnets in Norway where we want tourism, where we want to organize people to come and participate in the amazing experiences they give, but at the same time we need to make sure that it is a sustainability in our travel life. We will do so, among other things. to discuss in the major communication on travel life, which the Minister of Industry will present later in spring. Let me say that I want to visit the national parks, but doing so in a good way is important. That is why visiting strategies are now being set up, which will provide a sustainable use of national parks, and here we need to deal with wear and tear in nature, we need to deal with waste management, and we need to deal with security. That means that we can't just leave demand as the rule. We have to fix this. These include: therefore, we have established the grant scheme National routes, which will improve the management of tourist flows.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1584	The Council of State is quite right in that the proposal to protect the East is definitely related to urban development. It is about showing the different qualities of the city and its surroundings, both for its own inhabitants, for travellers from other countries as well as for international travellers. It's to build a brand, but it's also about protection, and my question is, when the Council of State puts so much emphasis on local consensus, how will he, through the stately plans, ensure that we get a supplement to ensure that the variations in national protection values are preserved?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1589	Work on the state-of-the-art protection plans to complement current protected areas is important for monitoring, professional assessment, of the quality of nature. National parks are created to preserve a particularly valuable nature. When you live in Oslo, you know how valuable and important the land is, but in the context of the supplementary protection to be implemented, we have to assess whether the natural values of the eastern part of the country meet the requirements of national parks in the nature diversity law. If they do, I believe that the discussion will continue, and that the relevant municipalities will then take part in the discussion, including municipalities that are currently not set up in national parks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1594	Since there is so much talk about bathing at Lofotden, I can only recommend doing so. I have done it, and it is extra good if you have something to drink that heats very well afterwards. But in order to move back down here, it's special with the Eastmarks that an unusually large amount of space allows for the establishment of a national park there, from the fact that it's a nature type that's very important to a lot of people and that has very poor protection. No one wants to put such a protection down the ears of Enebak, but a government council that comes from a party that wants to join municipalities with coercion could well have some sense of the signal effect of his own party and the Stortinget pointing in a certain direction, which will also be perceived by Enebakk Municipality. The question is therefore: does the Council of State agree that planning a national park and highlighting the benefits, not least, for the municipality in question will give a good signal effect that can have a positive impact also in Enebak?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1605	I see it as natural that proposals for East Marka as a national park are considered as part of the supplementary protection. Then we get an assessment of whether the natural quality meets the requirements of the Nature Diversity Act for national parks. For it has not yet been assessed on a professional basis. I believe that the conclusion of that assessment will be an important premise for the further discussion on the National Park, and that it could also potentially influence the municipalities in its assessments. I don't mind if the dialogue continues. The assessment we are going to make of the protection quality can definitely affect the dialogue and influence the municipalities, including Enebak. But I'm busy, as I said, having a long-term management of the national parks, it's a very practical benefit that there's consensus among all the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1610	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1617	Let me just start with the paradox – which Rasmus Hansson also had in mind – that when it comes to merging municipalities, people were willing to use coercion, but when it comes to safeguarding national interests and protected areas, the same will to use coercion is not present. It's a little strange, because it's exactly the national that was supposed to mean that we take a national responsibility – and that the government takes its national responsibility – to implement the protection. The second is a call. I have a time for the protection of the Lofotdden National Park: nature and youth will have summer camp in the future National Park at the beginning of August – I hope – in Flakstad. It would be amazing if the Council of State could get up there, be there with all the young people and determine that national park. I am not in doubt about the natural qualities that exist on Lofotodden. I really don't think anyone else in this room is either. Therefore, I have great faith that if only the Council of State bases the principle of local agreement and that agreement should be listened to locally, the national park will also be adopted. But let me go over to the east. I think the Council of State had a good answer – with its starting point – in the discussion about Eastern Mark. I disagree with his conclusion, but he has in a way a good reasoning attached to what is the Right Position. But it is improperly a paradox – which Hans Andreas Limi too little affected, and which I think Marit Arnstad too little affected – that an area that, in my opinion, has protective values that are strong enough, and which I also perceive that both the County and other actors signal having protective values that are strong enough to qualify for the National Park, should not be able to become a national park because Enebakk is against it. Instead, it should be possible to carry out voluntary protection according to nature conservation, for example, where just pointing to the restoration protection and to the natural value of some parts of the affected area will be strong enough to have a nature reserve today, but where other parts of the area could be protected according to the nature reserve provision because if this area is developed further, the natural values will be of such a nature that they will be worth taking care of in a national park. It's a little crazy that we end up in a situation where the voluntary protection and the power of landowners is something people will be allowed to move forward with as they like. But one loses some of the nice things you'll get in a national park, namely the opportunity to market this, and a national park centre, which would most likely be added to Enebakk municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1628	It's like today that 17.1 pst. of the mainland area of Norway is protected, of which national parks form approximately. 9.7 pst. Landscape protection areas account for approximately 50 % of the total population. 5.4 pst., and nature reserves account for approx. 1.9 pst. Then we didn't bring Svalbard, where about 65.3 pst. of the area is protected but not included in mainland Norway. If we take Svalbard, there is no doubt that Norway, as a national state, is far beyond all possible national protection targets. There is no doubt about this. It's also that a lot wants more. When we look at the notes from the minority, they don't just want to put Eastmark and Preikestolen in place as national parks. They also wish to extend the Salt Mountain Black National Park and the Etne Mountains, Sunnmørsalpene and Pasvik National Park should be considered in greater depth. In addition, they want to extend landscape protection areas such as Setesdal Vesthei and Trollheimen to become national parks, as well as Lofotdden to become a national park. The concept of ‘national park’ is in the process of being completely undermined by such an unbalanced policy, promoted by representatives of the Stortinget. The importance of local unity is completely overrun and ignored, and I must say that it is strange to see – and perhaps worth a cross on the roof – that SV and MDG now agree with the landowner for once. I'm assuming it goes for a while until the next time we're going to experience it. Finally, the Progress Party is committed to not diluting the national park concept, and we are looking for other solutions for the cessation of forestry or forest protection, through voluntary protection and not through coercion. I have to say that with all the national parks that we have unfortunately been given in Finnmark, there is no doubt that there are enormous difficulties in putting nature into use, going on a trip and going out. It is the use of nature that is ultimately important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1637	I am grateful for the Spring Day's touching concern for the national park concept. To build on that, I would like to stress that national parks are not just common protected areas in line with the other protection categories we have here in the country. National natural areas are identified because of a whole set of nationally important criteria. Therefore, it is quite obvious that the view of the Storting in such cases has meaning in itself, and has a great signal effect. For this reason, a majority with the Right in the head of the Stortinget today refuses to go further with a proposal on the National Park in East Marka will be awarded as support for a no to the National Park in the East, which is more than 98 pst. by the population around the area in question wants to have. That may not be the intention, but that is what is the consequence of the active passive attitude taken by the majority of the population – with the Right – here. The fact that the Central Party and the Advance Party say no to nature protection is almost a law of nature, but that the Right, which was central not least in two of the most successful new national parks we have here in the country, namely the Outer Whaler National Park and the Fäder National Park, is so passive in getting a national park near the capital, and which preserves the exit nature of the capital in a good way, is strange. What characterises Outer Whales and Påder National Parks is that they are national parks in areas where there are much, much greater user interests and much, much larger potential user conflicts than you are in the vicinity of Enebak. These national parks are very successful, they have benefited greatly from them and see great potential in them. They are very good examples of what is the reality of using the national park concept constructively. Therefore, I hope that above all, the Right will think carefully about its policy in this area and take on board that they have taken a step back in relation to the offensive role they had in the Outer Whales and the Feathers National Parks. Then I look forward to the next majority period with the majority that Norway needs to set up national parks both in the East and in the Preikestoll, which are now demonstrating an extra great need for assistance for the good management of a national and international icon that, unfortunately, is not being handled as it should.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1644	The Preike chair is one of the country's largest tourist attractions in nature, and for every year that goes, the number of visitors and the number of those who go to the Preike chair increases. It's not hard to understand that it's a popular area. First, the Preike chair itself is quite spectacular – getting up there, seeing the Preike chair and seeing the view. In addition, there is a relatively accessible area. If you look at the clothing of some of the tourists, you'd think it was more accessible than it actually is, but it's going very well for most people to get up there with some good footwear. At the same time, it is an area that has an element of untouched nature with both landscape values and natural values. The county council in Rogaland has established that there are grounds for making the area a national park. It is an area currently managed by three different municipalities: Strand, Hjelmeland and Forsand. We can always have a discussion about how appropriate it is that such an important and much visited area as the Preikestolen is managed by three different municipalities, but there is a debate that probably comes in this room at a later stage. We're going to have to assume that at least that's the way it is now. However, there is also an area of increasing pressure, which is experiencing significant challenges in dealing with the masses with people, both on a preparedness basis and in facilitating different facilities. It's true, as many people have said, there's some local resistance in the three different municipalities. I believe that we, as big people, we as a state, should nevertheless see the national values that are in this area, and I am so disappointed that we are not getting an investigation into further work on the National Park in the Preikestool. But I also want to signal that this is something that we in the left are going to work on further, because this area is not going to be less popular. It's not an area that's going to get less pressure. It's also not an area that's going to get less national value in the future. Although today we do not have a positive decision in Stortinget, this is an area that has national, significant value, and at least we will continue to work to become a national park.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1653	There are several people who have said that we have a lot of protected land in Norway, with 39 national parks in the mainland. There are large areas, but I think we should take on board that there is still a need to protect more to ensure the variation in Norwegian nature, to have the national values, but also to preserve biodiversity and not least to preserve the populations that are, internationally. In the last 40 years, animal populations have been reduced by almost 50 pst, so the trend — both in Norway and internationally — that more areas need to be cared for, with different levels of protection, will be reinforced and continued. In the case of the East, yes, it is right and important that you have local support, but at the same time we must not deceive ourselves into thinking that there are many areas of interest in the East that have a nature type and value that they have in the East that could become a national park. After all, it is only in East Mark that one has a coherent forest area that is large enough, and in addition one in Eastfold. These are the areas in question, and then it is wrong to set this up against what is the voluntary protection. Of course, voluntary forest protection must go its way. And it's usually small areas, which are important in themselves, but they won't be able to replace it as a national park could be. This is why it is important when you interact with the local – and then the responsibility of the stately reviews – that we ensure that we still have the necessary national protection of national values and that the right protection should and should be national parks. I helped get that job started with the Eastmark National Park. There has been a process that has been in progress since 2012. Now there will not be a majority either today, but I am absolutely sure that the Municipality of Oslo will take its responsibility in caring for the forest until it becomes a national park. I'm also quite sure the area is going to be a national park in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1665	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1681	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1695	This is – as you got the right idea when the President read out the text of the interview – two serious issues. There is an industry that makes it possible for companies and persons not to pay taxes. Companies also use many of their ability to use complex corporate structures to avoid paying taxes. These were two parts that were important in the Stockholm tax settlement, which was adopted in June 2016. These were important points for the Workers' Party. The agreement, based on the Scheel Committee's decision, was not just about the tax that companies would pay, which many might put back with an impression of after the tax settlement. It was also a recognition that too few companies today pay the tax they should pay. In a working paper by Professor Guttorm Schjelderup at the Norwegian School of Commerce, reference is made to an investigation by Giorgia Maffini and Socrates Mokkas, called “Profit shifting and measured productivity of multinational firms”, conducted at the Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation. It shows that multinational enterprises systematically report higher productivity — and hence income — in low tax countries. In the same note, Schjelderup shows that international studies also consistently show that multinational companies have lower profitability in high tax countries than national companies in the same industry. This is also the case for Norway, as shown in the study of Balsvik and others. from 2009. There you will find, for example: that multinational companies in Norway have a profit margin of 1,5 to 4 percentage points below comparable national enterprises. Peter Egger, Wolfgang Eggert and Hannes Winner say in a 2010 paper that using a large data set on European companies, they find that multinational companies pay 32 pst. less taxed in high tax countries than comparable national companies — which would also support the previous data here. This is relatively well-known and certainly not new to the Minister of Finance. But the problem with this is to get to the bottom of how we're going to manage to put an end to this practice. Here a follow-up to the points of the tax settlement that the President mentioned in the introduction would have been a good start. Prem Sikka, a professor of auditing at the University of Essex in the United Kingdom, summarizes in an article he has written in the book SKJULT – which is the result of a collaboration between Changemaker and Tax Justice Network, supported by Norad – how the four largest audit firms in the world, PwC, KPMG, Deloitte and EY systematically advise their customers on how to avoid paying taxes. According to the article, a consultation of the UK Parliament’s Control Committee provided evidence that PwC had a practice in which they would recommend their customers to enter the tax arrangement if it was only 25 pst. the chance that the event would take place if it was legally tested. According to the article, the three other companies have a similar threshold of 50 pst. Luxembourg Leaks, who should be known to the Stortinget, also showed us how it was PwC who, in cooperation with the Netherlands, created tax agreements that have enabled multinational companies to avoid paying taxes in their home country. Panama Papers and other revelations have also shown us how tax advice to avoid tax is no longer just a direct one-to-one advice for individual customers, but how packages and systems are developed that are widely sold to those who want to avoid paying taxes. It has simply become an international industry. In view of this, it also seems strange that the Council of State has – in my opinion – taken care of this matter in good time. Tax Director Hans Christian Holte was out in the media right after the proposal to assess the increased disclosure and restriction of the confidentiality of lawyers in tax matters was adopted in Stortinget, and wished the proposal to be warmly welcomed and felt it would be useful for the Norwegian tax authorities. On the other hand, the Association of Lawyers was strongly critical and sent a very critical letter – even before the proposal was adopted in Stortinget, I believe – to the Council of State, in which they clearly expressed their concern. There is little to find out about what has happened in this case after the Stortinget made its decision in June. An adjacent problem, which is also addressed in the interpellation text, is if Norwegian legislation is at all well equipped to withstand the use of this type of event. Linn Cecilie Anker-Sørensen, a doctoral student at the Faculty of Law of the University of Oslo, attended a seminar on capital flight organised by all the parties in the Finance Committee in the winter of 2016 through some of the challenges related to what can really be defined as a group. Anchor-Sørensen is researching cross-border group structures and the use of financial instruments to control companies. She illustrated to the Committee how to use, among others: derivative contracts challenge even what a share is. From the fact that we have known a share as a standardised financial instrument, derivative contracts can now divide the rights into three, so that the economic rights, for example: dividends, the administrative rights, e.g. voting rights and proposal rights, and the existing rights, i.e. the right to decide whether the share should be sold, rented or retained, divided into three. Traditionally, we are used to viewing this as complex rights associated with the share. But now the fragmented elements, which can be described as decomposed shares, are to be regarded as independent financial instruments. Whoever owns what, controls what and serves what, will be far more difficult to see in a construction where they are used in groups between companies, especially if you add that much of this is done through offshore accounts, where you have little or no insight into what is happening. I don't think I take my mouth too full when I say that there is reason to believe that Norwegian law is hardly rusted to take account of this. Many of today’s legislative changes proposals are also based on a too simple and straightforward understanding of what a group is. Thus, there may also be reason to believe that lack of knowledge of financial practices does not necessarily mean that the law will meet those you need to address. This can in turn lead to challenges for competitiveness, Norwegian jobs and the tax base. The financial crisis showed us that there are many ways to control a group. There are examples of subsidiaries in the group structure that are there only to serve a purpose for the group, without actually being a real legal entity – companies that only meet the formal requirements for what a company should be. The law is fulfilled according to the wording, but not always according to the purpose. In 2014, Norway received packaging in order not to comply adequately with the legislation on money laundering, and throughout this major period, we have had an ongoing debate on financial transparency. Had I had the whole Storting in my back in this matter, which I feel the Minister of Finance has, I think I would have been a little bit more busy getting to work. After all, we're just talking about putting down two samples. So the job – as it is seen from my poor position – is that there has to be a mandate and a problem description, and you have to find the right people to deal with it. So the department's job itself should not be so big, but it would be a very important step in the right direction, so that we can get a basis for getting ahead in these matters. This is about the possibility of taxing the community without actually increasing taxes – which I think the Minister of Finance is interested in. In addition, it is not least about creating a level playing field for Norwegian local enterprises vis-à-vis international cross-border groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1731	Let me thank the representative, Mr Wickholm, for addressing important issues such as information obligations and professional secrecy in tax matters and the transfer of profits and the eroding of tax bases. The Interpellation addresses two points in the May 2016 tax settlement. The first point concerns point 9 of agreement on the establishment of an expert committee to assess whether further restrictions on the confidentiality of tax advisors should be made. It was also agreed that the expert committee should consider whether tax providers and advisers’ obligation to provide control information should be extended to information on company structures and the purpose of financial transactions. Finally, it was agreed that the expert committee should assess whether tax advisors should be required to provide information on tax planning packages. The Ministry of Finance is now working on a draft mandate, and a public authority will be appointed during the spring. Therefore, it is demanding to look into this particular issue now, and I am therefore waiting for the recommendations of the expert committee. The second point concerns the agreement point 8 from the tax settlement. The point shows that a status should be given as to how the Norwegian legislation is equipped for increasingly complex financial instruments and corporate structures, in view of the transfer of income in multinational companies. I'm assuming that there's a profit shift you've been thinking about here, which is a little bit different than income shifting. Profit movements are targeted at facilities that reduce the tax burden in Norway but which have little impact on real economic conditions. This implies that significant inputs underlying value creation are still in Norway, while profits are being shifted out. The aim is to achieve a lower tax on profits earned. Excess movements occur mainly through cross-border activity. Typically, profit movements occur through debt displacement and tax-motivated pricing of intragroup transactions. Excess movements are unfortunate. It reduces tax revenue to Norway and provides a competitive disadvantage for purely national actors who do not have the opportunity to move profits to countries with a lower tax rate and may result in a weakening of trust in the tax system. Exceedance of the tax base can also be done in other ways, and studies from the OECD indicate that tax planning that exploits differences other than different tax rates in national tax rules is a significant problem. I would like to give a status of the government's work on profit-moving and eroding the tax base, but I stress that these are issues that have been thoroughly addressed in the government's tax documents. In the tax communication, proposals for measures against profit movements are devoted to a full chapter, and the main points of the tax communication came to the conclusion of the Stortning through the tax settlement. Profit movements may have been the main reason why the tax committee was set up, and the sample pointed out that profit movements are one of the main challenges of corporate taxation. Once the company tax has been reduced in several ways, it will be reduced, among other things. make profit-moving less profitable. However, the government is also aware that this is not enough to counteract profit movements, and other targeted legislative work is therefore important. At the same time, there has been considerable international attention on this topic in recent years. The locomotive has been the OECD and the BEPS project of the G20 countries. Hopefully, the project will result in a number of changes in international tax agreements. The amendments intend to strengthen the agreements against tax evasion, etc. The guidelines for pricing intra-group transactions have been strengthened to ensure that income is allocated to the country of value creation. In addition, BEPS work provides a number of recommendations on how countries can design national rules to protect the tax base. In addition to the BEPS work, in which Norway has participated very actively, there has been extensive work on similar issues in both the EU and the UN. In recent years, the government has implemented several measures aimed at combating the flow of profits and the erosion of the Norwegian tax base. Several of the recommendations of the Tax Committee and the BEPS project have been implemented, and different legal work is ongoing in the Ministry, which will further strengthen this work and make the Norwegian legislation more robust. I'll go through some key issues: In addition to the work on implementing BEPS recommendations in internal legislation, I would like to mention a multilateral agreement that can be used to implement changes in tax agreements in a very effective way. The Agreement shall be signed on 7 June of this year. The instrument could potentially revise a large international network of tax agreements without time-consuming bilateral processes. Instead of many years of bilateral negotiations, countries can update many tax agreements by agreeing to selected provisions of the instrument. Companies operating in several countries have incentives to place a lot of debt, and thus interest expense, in countries with a relatively high tax rate, while counterpart claims are placed in countries with low or no taxes. In order to counteract profit movements through the interest deduction, Norway introduced an interest-rate reduction rule in 2014. At the same time, rules on the limitation of the interest deduction are an important part of the international effort towards profit-moving. In the tax settlement, it was agreed that the interest restriction rule should be extended to cover external interest rates, in order to take a greater part of the interest deduction due to the transfer of profits, and it was agreed that the rule should be designed to minimise the burden on ordinary borrowing conditions. There is now work in the Department on tightening up the interest-rate reduction rule by including external interest rates, and it is aimed at sending a proposal to consult this spring. The BEPS project proposes several rules designed to counteract adverse effects of so-called hybrid arrangement, i.e.: tax planning that exploits differences between the tax rules of different countries. By means of such tax planning, taxpayers can obtain double deductions or an income is not taxed effectively in any of the countries. The 2016 tax regime provided a rule to discourage a company from using the exemption method when the distribution company has been deducted from the distribution. The need for several such rules will be assessed on an ongoing basis and work is ongoing in the ministry related to some types of cases. As announced in the tax communication, the Ministry proposed rules on the introduction of country-by-country reporting to the tax authorities of Prop. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The rules have been adopted and transferred to the Tax Administration Act. The report obliges large multinational companies to provide a country-by-country report for tax purposes to Norwegian tax authorities. As a general rule, the obligation lies with the parent company in the group. Such rules will be particularly useful in verifying whether prices and conditions are properly established in intragroup transactions. First reporting takes place in 2018, for the 2016 income year. The Tax Committee recommended tightening up the concept of resident companies in the Tax Act, so that companies registered in Norway are always considered resident in the Kingdom. The aim is to prevent companies from becoming homeless. In the tax notice, the government announced that one would send to the hearing a proposal to tighten up the concept of a resident. We are now working on a consultation note with a view to sending this to the hearing in the near future. In the Norwegian tax system, there is a specific non-statutory legal basis to prevent circumvention of tax rules. In setting up the tax communication, the Committee asked that, in the context of the rule of law on circumvention, an assessment be made as to whether the obligation to provide information should include the purpose of transactions. A general extension of the disclosure obligation of taxpayers to include the purpose of transactions is assessed as part of the ongoing work of the Ministry of Finance to legislate the Code of Avoidance. This work is a priority in the ministry, but it is a little early to say something certain now about when a proposition will be promoted for Stortinget. I am committed to making progress in protecting the Norwegian tax base, and I can assure the representative Wickholm and the rest of the Stortinget that both the government and the tax administration are giving high priority to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1773	Of course, we appreciate the fact that the Council of State now informs us that it is working on a mandate, and that a selection should be set up to look at the professional secrecy of lawyers, the confidentiality of tax advisers and also the obligation to provide information in these situations. We're excited to see that work. So I just want to draw attention to the Council of State and the Department, because it's done a lot of good work, to issues there, for example. in reports made by the Tax Justice Network and other civil society organisations. If I were to give the Council of State a advice, I think it might be wise, also in order to avoid much criticism, to make sure to address the questions that a fairly scattered range of organizations have been concerned about. When it comes to the second part of the interpellation, namely to have a review of how Norwegian legislation is equipped to meet complex corporate structures, I feel that the Council of State is going through a number of other things, which I am pleased that she is working with, but which are not directly connected to it. This is, after all, a point of agreement in the tax settlement, and then it's a little strange to draw attention to the tax return. Had the Storting been satisfied with what was being taken up there, there would hardly have been a need to have it as a separate point. I was dealing with one of the issues here related to derivatives, how to control large international groups. Own computer programs have been developed to do this in a fast and efficient way across borders, and there may be reason to believe that we don't always know who controls, who controls the different companies. So this isn't an attempt to take the Council of States, where the Council of State needs to say that yes, we're already working on other important issues. Here, I think there is simply a need to talk to one of the top experts we have in Norway about this, Linn Anker-Sørensen and others, to get them to describe to the department: what is the latest in research in this area? What don't we know? And why do these research environments describe that there is such a gap between what is the practice of reality and what is the reality of the law? I think we all have an interest in getting to the bottom of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1786	I would like to receive good advice from the representative of Wickholm. Let me also say that I am very aware of the points of agreement that came into the Storting's treatment of the tax return. That's why it was important for me when I answered this interview, to try to give a lead on all the ongoing work on many different questions related to this with profit-moving. This is complicated things, but it's also so that there's a very broad political consensus in the Storting about having a lot of effort in this area, and I can assure you that we do. I did not see it as such either that the representative, Wickholm, tried in any way to take the Council of State. I have had many good discussions with the representative on these issues. There's no doubt that he has a genuine commitment to these questions, and I share that. I am therefore aware of all the recordings – with reference to both sources and references – in the articles of the interpellant. I can assure you that we have the pressure to follow up the consensus points that came up in the tax notification, also because it is important to put in place regulatory improvements in this area, precisely to avoid tax planning of a nature that actually leads to the loss of tax revenue in resident countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1798	Thank you to the interpellant Truls Wickholm for addressing important issues related to tax evasion and the follow-up to some of the issues in the tax settlement from spring 2016 that relate to disclosure and professional secrecy in tax matters. First, I would like to point out that the Minister of Finance and the Government have already followed up most of the points from the tax settlement, in a good and offensive way, and that these are either already out of business or are in the process. Right-wing satisfaction, and the Minister of Finance deserves tribute for this work. Both in the government’s tax report and in the tax settlement there were several points related to the work to prevent tax evasion. The whole background to the Tax Committee’s investigation and the government’s tax notice was precisely to take the consequences of the fact that capital can easily be moved across borders, and that it is therefore important to ensure that we against the eroding of the tax base in Norway. The most important step has, of course, been to reduce corporate tax in order to have a tax level that is somewhat in line with our competitors, and in particular our neighbouring countries. Of course, lower tax levels give itself a lower incentive to move profits. I'm glad we have a government and a majority on the Stortinget that takes these questions very seriously. The Minister of Finance explained in his statement the work of setting up an expert committee to assess whether further restrictions should be made on the confidentiality of tax advisors, and also whether tax providers and advisers should be required to provide information on corporate structures and the purpose of financial transactions. These are important elements in the government’s efforts to prevent tax evasion. I look forward to the mandate being finalised, and I am pleased that the Minister of Finance announces that a public body will be appointed during this spring. The review by the Minister of Finance of the various aspects of profit movements in multinational companies shows that the Norwegian authorities are systematically working both nationally and internationally to limit the space for action and to prevent this erosion of the tax base as far as possible. Norway has been actively involved in the BEPS project of the OECD and the G20 countries, and extensive work has also been done in this area under the auspices of the EU and the United Nations. Although a person can take — and take — national action, we are totally dependent on international work and cooperation to ensure that we are protected against profits in multinational companies. The Minister of Finance and the Government are offensive in their work and commitment to this issue. It shows the Minister of Finance's review here today, where she touched on many points related to profit movements and where she, among other things, referred to a new multilateral agreement to be signed in June to be able to revise international tax agreements more effectively in the future. It is also good that work is ongoing on including external interest rates in the interest rate reduction rule and that it is aimed at sending a proposal for consultation in ours. As you know, there is already an interest-rate restriction rule in place, and this is an important point since profit movements are largely through just debt shifts and tax-motivated pricing of transactions within the different groups. In the process of including external interest rates, it is important that we be able to avoid, as far as possible, the impact of ordinary borrowing conditions, which was also the focus of the tax settlement parties. The right is concerned with protecting the Norwegian tax base, and I am pleased that the Minister of Finance gives such a clear priority to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1821	It is not gradually lacking in investigations relating to capital evasion and tax evasion, and it is a responsibility that this government must not take on its own. Previous governments should also have followed up several of the recommendations from e.g. The Capital Flows Committee. But I do not share the opinion of the representative Meling that the answer from the Council of State was very clear and forward-looking. On the contrary, I do believe that the government's attitude to what is a very important issue, as the interpellant addresses, is somewhat backward, because tax avoidance is not just a phenomenon that exists in the periphery of business – it is on the contrary an international business model for large multinational companies that directly undermine the ability of Norwegian business to be competitive, and that leads to very large sums disappearing out of Norway every year through different channels. The media industry is among those who are experiencing this now. Advertisers who previously contributed to a free and independent press in Norway are more likely to enrich actors who are not operating precisely after the editor’s poster and who may never ever pay a reasonable tax on their turnover in Norway. So this is a challenge for several plans; it's not just the proceeds for the state, but it also changes the conditions for Norwegian business and Norwegian free exchange of views. I hope that the government will put together the expert committee, become clear enough, and to a large extent, for example. reflects the fact that the tax director has, of course, openly wanted to be tightened up in this area. But I'm not convinced that it's going to happen until I see it. I think it's worth staying a little bit by the fact that last year, at the discovery of Panama Papers, the Minister of Economic Affairs came on the track and said that she wanted a review of Norwegian state-owned and leased companies' practices in tax havens. The interpellant points out in the interpellant that the world's four largest accountants are behind half of the world's tax avoidance events. One of these four companies is PricewaterhouseCoopers. When the government – of PricewaterhouseCoopers, or PwC, as it is called today – orders a review of the activities of Norwegian state-owned companies in tax havens, I have problems to imagine a clearer example of the goat and oat sack. This may not be the first professional environment I would go to to get an independent and critical assessment of how to combat tax avoidance. Or if not otherwise, if there is something that kind of audit firms turn out to be quite competent at – after revelations both in the Netherlands and in the United Kingdom – it may well be exactly that kind of event, which has to be said to be in a legal grey zone. If they want to make recommendations about how we can seal these holes for them, it's very nice, but I don't exactly hold my breath. I want a more forward-looking government, I want a government that doesn't see this as a peripheral zone problem, but a government that acknowledges that this is one of the greatest threats to the welfare state in our time. The sums that disappear into tax havens, which should have been taxed — in both poor and rich countries — are huge. It doesn't just threaten our income here and now, it threatens our social models. So there's one more perspective here: tightening the confidentiality of tax lawyers with such schemes, tightening up and giving tax advisors more information is not just a matter of securing our own income; it's also a matter of making it less profitable to be tax havens. By contributing to the profitability of being a tax haven, we also indirectly help to make it easier for traffickers to hide their money, that it is easier for war criminals and corrupt state leaders to hide away from their money, and that even worst of all, it is easier for terrorists to finance their business. The fight against this type of economic activity is also a struggle for a safer society and a safer world. So if the government gets speeded up, I'm happy, but I suspect it's going to have to be a government shift before we get speed on things.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1841	Thank you so much for participating in the interpellation. It's nice that so many people express their commitment to and their zeal after something's going to happen here. We'll take, for example, that the interest-rate limitation rule shall also apply to the external. I'm for that, and I think that's good, but these are rules that apply within the group and on the outside of the group, and that the group also uses in several different contexts. Not having an old-fashioned, linear understanding of what a group is will be very important to understand how such a rule should be set up and function. Perhaps, as some point out, this is a kind of rule that can in some way affect normal Norwegian groups to a large extent, while other types of group events — which are so advanced that there are no ordinary companies to organise in this way — can avoid much of the same thing that we are trying to achieve. This is exactly why it is so important to look at: what is happening in the world now, what has development done, what is possible to avoid laws, regulations and taxes for companies that want to do so? Then we're back to a debate we've had before. We can have a lot of laws and rules, and there will always be someone who is trying to get away from them in a way, and then this is with openness -- at least we know what's going on, understand what's going on -- incredibly important to be able to get hold of it and maybe also to make new laws and rules. I'm afraid that, as an authority here, you'll always run for creative forces trying to get away from it, to say it like this. Finally, I hope – like everyone else – that we will soon see that sample, soon it will see the mandate. I hope there is a sample where there are many professionals, many of them who have participated most strongly in this debate over the last few years, and that there are not only tax lawyers from the largest audit and tax light companies, but that there are also academic competence, competence from civil society, that kind of thing. Otherwise I think easily it's a sample that will be criticized for being biasedly composed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1852	Thank you for the debate. I really just need to comment on one thing, and that's the introduction to the representative Serigstad Valen, where the government was accused of having a ‘retrospective’ attitude on these issues. It is with respect to report wrong. The government has been very active both here at home and not least in different international forums just to keep the pressure up and get momentum on these things. I want to remind you that there has been an incredible amount of happening in these areas over the last few years, which makes it less profitable to be tax havens, or makes it less attractive to be so, simply because when so many countries are now linked to international agreements, you get quite isolated when you choose not to. So I believe that much of the contract work that has come into place, slowly, but surely sticks holes on some of these waves and pulls us in the right direction. That being said, we should not rest on our laurels for that reason, because there are still many legislative changes and improvements in the legislation that need to be put in place. I have mentioned several of them in my main post today. We work with full power to get these in place, but there are sometimes complicated questions to find answers to. One side of this is what we can do under our own national law, and the other is how to put in place better international legislation. In any case, it is beyond doubt that when this concerns multinational companies, much of the contract work must also come into place through international rules and agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1859	So the debate is on case No. 9 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1875	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e1891	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2200	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2212	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2227	President! No further votes were recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2232	Are we in trouble? Is there more? Then we cancel the vote and try again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2244	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2268	It's going to go over I first.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2278	It is then added over II.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2292	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Ivar Odnes on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to terminate Norway’s participation in the International Student Assessment Programme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2354	It's going to go over I first.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2364	It is then added over II.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2374	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2384	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is proposal No. 1, from Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 2, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Environmental Party of the Greens. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked in a new national park plan to review all Norway’s national parks with a view to expanding the parks with new valuable natural areas adjacent to the national park.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2426	We're only going to vote for II and III. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2440	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The Greens have announced subsidized support for the proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to return to the issue of national parks at the Preikestolen and in the East in the context of a supplementary national park plan.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2455	It's going to wrestle over you. Here it can be exciting, so here everyone has to tighten up. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2469	That's how it was supposed to be. President! That was wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2478	It's corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2491	It is added over IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2517	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2526	Case No. 10 and 11 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to Acts 53 and 54. There are no comments. Thus, the law of the Storting 53 and 54 has been approved for the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-21.ana.ud383e2606	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
