ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e59	The representatives of Inbjørg Amanda Vokskesen, Jørund Rytman, Morten Wold, Fredric Holen Bjørdal and Snorre Serigstad Valen, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Buskerud County, Gerd Eli Berge, now takes the seat. From 12 May to 16 May, an application for parental leave has been submitted by the representative Trond Giske. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other product representatives of the South-Trøndelag County, Gunn Elin Flakne, apply for an exemption from meeting in the Stortinget under the permission of the representative Eva Kristin Hansen from 2 May to 4 May for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates of the South Trøndelag counties are convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: Ferhat Güven 2-4. May and Gunn Elin Flakne 9-11. May.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e111	Ferhat Güven is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e122	The representative of Mr Lene Vågslid will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e127	On behalf of Hadia Tajik, Kari Henriksen, Jorod Asphjell and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on the introduction of service numbers for adding to criminal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e132	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e152	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e166	It's about the day 18 years since the last time an equality political statement was made from this speech. On 11 May 1999 it was held by Minister for Children and Family Affairs Valgerd Svarstad Haugland. Since then, there have been major changes in Norwegian society, especially in the field of gender equality. Most mothers have become active, women’s part-time jobs have been reduced and more women have entered human-dominated professions. From 2004 onwards, the maximum price has been introduced in kindergarten, and we have introduced lower parental benefit in kindergarten for families with low incomes. From 2009 onwards, children have the right to a place in kindergarten and kindergarten contributes to children’s learning, development, integration and cohesion. For parents, kindergarten provides opportunities for professional activity and contributes to gender equality. In these days we can mark another milestone. The Government has submitted proposals for common equality and discrimination laws and proposals to strengthen the enforcement apparatus to the Stortinget. Common law will contribute to a more comprehensive and effective protection of discrimination. For the first time, discrimination will have consequences. The government is pursuing an active policy on equality and discrimination. This work is important for the diversity of society, high levels of professional participation, integration and inclusion. In addition, it contributes to equal rights and equal opportunities for all regardless of gender, function, ethnicity, religion and outlook on life, sexual orientation and age. The government's efforts are broad, and we have presented in this period: equality message family message proposals for common equality and discrimination laws for all grounds of discrimination; proposals for changes to the enforcement system in the field of discrimination strategy against hateful expressions LHBTI field action plan Universal Design Action Plan and we have investigated the rights of people with developmental disabilities Discrimination is a serious problem both for those affected and for society as a whole. The proposal for a new equality and discrimination law establishes a strong and effective protection against discrimination. We continue and strengthen strong protection against gender discrimination: The law shall continue to aim at improving the position of women. Provisions on equal pay, parental leave rights and gender balance in public authorities are continued. We are strengthening the protection against pregnancy discrimination. We propose that both women and men should be protected against discrimination on grounds of care. The law clearly prohibits complex discrimination. In addition, we propose to strengthen the protection of discrimination on many important points: The law prohibits discrimination on grounds of age outside the labour force. Schools are given a clearer duty to build on equality, not only in textbooks, but also in education. We introduce universal ICT design obligations in school. School students with disabilities are currently being excluded from normal education because the digital educational resources of the school cannot be used by all. Employers are given a more concrete obligation to work actively for equality. We're canceling today's reporting obligation. We know that the reporting obligation is resource-intensive and bureaucratic and without documented effect. It is not just a good piece of legislation; we must also have an effective instrument of enforcement. For the first time it will have economic consequences to discriminate. This is a historic milestone. Good and effective enforcement is characterised by good guidance, effective treatment and availability of lowthreshold services. It is also important that individuals who are exposed to discrimination are given their own decisions more quickly than today. Equally important is having an independent driving force in gender equality, which can be a clear voice in the public and a professional guide to both sectors and individuals who are discriminated against. The Government wants the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, LDO, to be strengthened as a driving force for gender equality and to add enforcement tasks to a new and strengthened discrimination topic. The Government has an objective of safeguarding the rights of LHBTI persons, contributing to transparency and actively countering discrimination. Although challenges remain, there is also a lot of positive in this field. The law on legal gender change was an important milestone that came into place last year. With regard to the rights of LHBTI people, we have come a long way in Norway, but we still have challenges. We have launched the Safety, Diversity, Transparency Action Plan. The action plan focuses on the areas of action of safe social arenas and public spaces, equivalent public services and improved quality of life for particularly vulnerable groups. The dissemination of knowledge across a number of sectors is envisaged and Norway’s clear international voice in this field will be maintained. Hat crime is to be combated through increased expertise and better police procedures. We will also conduct a comprehensive investigation into the protection of criminal law against discrimination. The situation of groups at risk of discrimination on a number of grounds has been given a special focus in the new plan, and we attach great importance to maintaining good cooperation with organisations in the LHBTI area even in the coming years. The government's vision is a society in which everyone can participate and be given the opportunity to contribute to society, regardless of its function. Education and the ability to get into work are important, so that they can live an active and independent life. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities contributes to the fight against discrimination on grounds of disability and respect for human rights. The Convention provides an important framework for Norway’s commitments in this area. In 2015, the right to user-controlled personal assistance became a statutory right. It makes an important difference in many people's lives. We continue and strengthen the government's work strategy, including: position resources and priority of action sites. The government is concerned about the scope of hateful statements. Hateful statements counteract equality and lead to discrimination. When Answerstad Haugland gave his gender policy statement, there was no Facebook. The difference between then and now is that it is possible to make hateful statements that the whole world can see. In democracies like Norway, freedom of expression is one of the most fundamental rights and values we have. But there's a big difference between using his freedom of speech and making hateful statements. In November 2016, the government launched a strategy against hateful expressions. There we address actions against the judicial system, police efforts, research and children and young people. In 2016, Oslo Police District registered 175 reviews for hate crime. This is three times as many as in 2014, when the number was 68. It is positive that several people choose to report hateful statements and hate crime, but there is still reason to believe that the numbers of darkness are great. It is important that the police have good knowledge and competence about hateful expressions. We are now facilitating the detection, investigation and promotion of hateful opinions to a greater extent than today before the courts or other relevant bodies. The police shall also publish statistics on illegal hateful statements. Norway is one of the world's most equalised countries. Women and men have equal rights, but after decades of gender equality policy, we still have problems that have not been solved. The government presented a gender equality message that was unanimously adopted by the Stortinget in spring 2016. The Communication addressed a number of societal areas and has nearly 70 different interventions in areas such as: growth and training; work life violence and abuse; health business and entrepreneurship; International equality work of Norway 14 request decisions submitted by the Stortinget Government in relation to the treatment of the equality notification are now followed up by the departments responsible; Girls and boys in high school are highly opting for gender-based education. We need more boys in health and social sciences and more girls in technology. Women are currently in the majority of higher education. Six out of ten students are women. More and more women are choosing what have traditionally been human-dominated educations, such as economic and administrative subjects, medicine and law. CORE — The core environment for gender equality research has established a solid knowledge status on the gender-based labour market. The labour market in Norway is largely gendered, which is the main explanation of the difference in pay between women and men. At the same time, gender mainstreaming in the labour market has decreased slightly over time. More jobs in gender-balanced professions, and women are increasingly taking on high-quality jobs. Some more men enter women-dominated professions. This applies in particular to men with a migrant background who enter professions with low qualifications. Women's choice of occupations is less varied than men, and there are still too few men who choose education and professions in women's dominated areas. The Government supports several projects to contribute to diversity and equality: In the pilot project on equal opportunities, enterprises are working to improve gender balance and diversity. The aim is to be certified as an equivalent enterprise. The National Public Health Project aims to contribute to the increased recruitment of men in the care sector. The Youth and Technology programme, with its role models, helps to increase the proportion of girls in technology at all levels of the education system. Buffdir equality indicators include, inter alia: a good overview of the educational choices of girls and boys. The general obligation to protect women and men was introduced on 1 January 2015. The first in the new scheme met at the service in the summer of 2016. The universal duty of protection resulted in equal duty and right for women and men to defend the country. The defence can be chosen from among the most suitable and motivated from the youth school as a whole. The obligation applies to all women, including those who do not serve the first time. The defence has a long experience with women in service at all levels, but for the first time all women have to deal with the defence as a educational and professional capability, and the defense has to deal with women soldiers in far greater numbers than before. The female hunter's trophy at the Special Defense Command is one of many examples of this. New role models are being created for women inside and outside Defence. General protection leads to increased equality. Work is the key to self-sufficiency and independence. As Minister of Integration, I was busy getting more immigrant women into the labour market. Work provides opportunities to practice languages and to be well integrated. The Norwegian welfare model depends on high levels of labour participation. The report of the Brochmann II Committee shows that immigration is not sustainable unless more immigrant women come into work. It shows that four out of ten immigrant women are not at work, and that is worrying. The Perspective Communication shows that there is a high potential for increased employment among non-Western immigrants and that there is much to be gained from improving integration among some immigrant groups. The proportion of Norwegian-born immigrants with parents often takes higher education and has higher participation than the rest of the population. Some immigrant groups have lower participation rates than the rest of the population. The employment rate for immigrant women from Asia and Africa is slightly below 50 pst. It is important that these women too come out to work. There are many reasons for low participation, but lack of education is of great importance. The government has proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the introduction system and training in Norwegian and social skills, and we will help to ensure that more immigrant women gain access to the labour market by strengthening their job opportunities. In recent years, fewer women are working part-time, and more are working full-time. Yet we see that 37 pst. of all women working part-time in Norway in 2016, against only 15 pst. of the men. Most people who work part-time state that they want it. The main problem is those who work involuntary part-time. The perspective message shows that if women working part-time instead of working full-time, the total number of hours worked in 2016 would increase by 8 pst. Although this example is based on strict and partly unrealistic expectations, it says something about the potential to increase average working hours. Figures from the Labour Force Survey show that 70 pst. of all employed women who have children under the age of 16, working full-time. The fact that several mothers work full time while the children live at home is positive. This shows that good schemes for families with children produce results. The government is committed to facilitating a flexible working life with a regulatory framework that stimulates full-time work for those who want to have a full-time job. The provisions of the Working Environment Act on working time have been amended in such a way as to increase access to local solutions. This can give increased opportunities to those who want to work longer shifts, in return for longer periods of free time. This can contribute to higher job rates and more full-time work. Involuntary part-time is especially a challenge in the healthcare sector. This is why we have called on regional health businesses to continue their work on the development of a full-time culture and to add as many employees as possible to their entire permanent posts. It is important to work to eliminate the pay gap between women and men where these are not factually justified. Wage discrimination is illegal. Women make an average of 86.1 pst. of men's wages when we include both full-time and part-time employees. The main reason for differences in pay is the sex-shared labour market, because women and men work in different industries, sectors, occupations and positions. The government has discussed with the main social organisations how we can move forward in order to reduce the pay gap: The responsibility of the parties for the implementation of wage and salary settlements is firm and it is important that the parties contribute to the reduction of pay differentials between women and men. Authorities follow-up through cooperation between labour market organisations on documentation and research. This development is followed up in the Technical Calculation Committee for Income Statements and in tripartite cooperation on equal opportunities in employment. We have good cooperation with the social partners on equal opportunities in employment. Good cooperation arenas between the authorities and the social partners are based on a solid tradition in Norwegian working life and politics. The main social and government organisations have agreed on organised cooperation to promote equality between women and men and that this should continue to be enshrined in the Labour and Pension Policy Council. Equality is regularly addressed as a theme in these meetings. In addition, a separate Council working group discusses issues related to gender equality in the labour market. We agree that tripartite cooperation is anchored in the structure established. For 2017, the project is set at NOK 500000 to increase gender equality in the labour market. There has been a clear increase in female leaders in the last ten years in both the public and private sectors, but there is still a much lower share of female leaders in the private sector. According to the Labour Force Survey, the proportion of women in the labour force is now 38 p.p. By means of systematic work, the State may indicate that the total proportion of women in leadership roles is 51 pst. The Storting asked for the presentation to take care of the proportion of female top managers in the businesses for which the department is responsible. I would therefore like to mention the proportion of female top managers in the departments and the directorates. At the department level, the image looks like this: The share of female top managers is between 16 pst., in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and 66 pst., in the Ministry of Culture. In the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, for which I am responsible, it is 50 pst. women and 50 pst. men. Seven departments have a gender balance, i.e. within a 40/60 pst. distribution. The average is about 38 pst. female top managers. At the directorate level and for businesses, the image looks like this: Of the 94 underlying businesses we've founded, 34 are run by women. So 36 pst. by the establishments are managed by a woman. One of the most important tasks of the State which owns is to provide good, complex and competent boards of companies in which the State holds a holding. As of 30 September 2016, 46 pst. by the companies of the female directors. There is an increase of 10 percentage points from March 2014. Lack of gender balance is a challenge for a large part of business. On behalf of the government, CORE has developed a top management survey that shows the gender balance of the top management groups in the largest companies in Norway. When CORE examined the 100 largest companies in 2016, they found only 20 pst. women in the top management groups. This year, they doubled the number of companies to 200 and found the same result. This shows that even with the Quotation Act, we have no more women in top management. The numbers also show that the top manager almost always is a man, and that's only 11.5 pst. female directors of the 200 largest companies in Norway. The barometer shows that there is a gender balance in stock positions, but the challenge is to recruit women into line positions. Line positions have performance responsibilities and are often considered necessary to move all the way up to the top level. In line positions, it's only 15 pst. women. This situation is not good enough, but it is also a responsibility that business needs to take. A competitive business must recruit good candidates from all over the population, because it is simply a good economy. Violence in close relationships is one of society's greatest equality challenges. Unfortunately, the extent of violence and abuse is much greater than many are aware of, and the consequences are serious for individuals and for society. The government prioritises the work against violence in close relations, and I am pleased that the Storting has recently adopted the escalation plan against violence and abuse. Victims of violence shall be given better protection, the investigation of acts of violence and assault shall be prioritised, all services shall have good and proper competence, the prevention work shall be strengthened and the coordination of services and services shall be improved. The investment in the current year totals about half a billion dollars, and the government has committed itself to escalating its efforts further during the planning period. The Government shall further set up a group to review a selection of partner killing cases and, until the summer, the Swedish Children's Violence Committee shall present its investigation. Gender-based violence can take many forms. On 8 March this year, the government presented a new action plan that strengthens its efforts towards negative social control, forced marriage and gender mutilation. There is a link between family policy and gender policy. Parents today have a unique opportunity to combine working life and family life. The government has focused on changes aimed at equalising both parents as caregivers. The ability of each family to choose their own solutions is central. We have one of the world's best leave arrangements for parents and children. The government's family policy is based on freedom of choice and flexibility, and this was the reason why the government and the cooperation parties increased the common part of the parental leave period by eight weeks. I trust that the parents themselves can make the choices that best suit their child and his family. Families are different, and most importantly, the child is cared for. Employers also have a responsibility and can encourage and facilitate more leave for fathers. The cash support allows the individual parent to choose the care solution that they think is best for themselves and their child. However, I see that there are dilemmas about the impact of cash support for equality and integration. The government has therefore submitted a legislative proposal to introduce a five-year residence requirement for immigrants coming to Norway from outside the EEA. The change shall contribute to better integration of both parents and children. The number of cash aid recipients has steadily declined. Most parents want kindergarten, but for those who want to postpone kindergarten start somewhat, cash support can provide flexibility in the transition from leave to paid work. The introduction of free core time into kindergartens for 3- to 5-year-olds is also a contribution to improving the integration of parents and children. In March, the Children’s Family Committee presented its study on public support for families with children. One of the priority objectives of the sample is equal parenthood through professional participation and care. The committee proposes, inter alia: granting parents the individual right to parental leave. After the NOU has been consulted, the government will assess the follow-up to the proposals. Today, parents are equal in society. The government is concerned that parents should also be equal after a break in their lives. The size of the population has recently adopted changes to the Children’s Act, such as: relate to shared residence, moving and joint parental responsibility. The changes facilitate more equal parenthood and the rights of children to both parents. The government is working to counteract differences in the supply of health between women and men. We need more knowledge about reasons for differences in health and the use of healthcare. Sick leave is high in Norway. It's higher for women than for men. Women's sick leave is 63 pst. higher than among men. Since the IA agreement was concluded in 2001, sick leave has been reduced, but the reduction has been stronger among men and the strongest in the private sector. The government is active in reducing sick leave, for example. through the IA cooperation. Increased use of classified sick notification and close follow-up by consistent enforcement of the activity requirement and dialogue meeting 2 are measures that can help reduce sick leave. The government will give priority to research on women’s health and gender perspectives, which support the government’s policies in the field of gender equality, such as the health of older women, working life and health and the health of minority women. In a statement like this, it is also important to promote the international work of the government. Women’s rights and equality are therefore also a priority part of Norwegian foreign policy. Many look to Norway to learn about gender equality. It's important for us to show that equality pays off for the whole community. For Norway, estimates show that if we had not had employment growth among women in the period 1972–2013, we could have been 3 300 billion. kr poorer than we really are. On the other hand, if women had worked as much as men in the last 40 years, we could be 2,300 billion. kr richer. The overall objective of Norwegian assistance is to combat poverty and alleviate poverty. The UN Sustainable Development Goals bring the world together to work together to eradicate poverty by 2030. With the “Common Responsibility for the Common Future – The Sustainable Development Goals and the Norwegian Development Policy”, the government presented a comprehensive development policy to help Norway achieve its ambitious objectives. International driving rules and institutions promoting democracy, human rights and legal certainty know we are under pressure. In the Communication, we announce a reinforced effort to defend freedom of expression, religious minorities and women's rights, including access to prevention and sexual and reproductive health services. Sustainability objective number 5 on gender equality is absolutely central to achieving the other UN sustainability objectives. Equality between women and men is necessary to create development in a country. Women shall be guaranteed effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of political, economic and public life. The action plan Freedom, power and opportunities provide the framework for the work of the EEAS. The focus is on girls’ education, women’s political participation, women’s economic participation and rights, the fight against violence and harmful practices against girls and women, and sexual and reproductive health and rights. Through the Women, Peace and Security Action Plan, Norway is working to ensure that women, as well as men, rights, needs and priorities, are taken seriously in all our peace and security efforts, in peace processes and peace negotiations, international operations, peace building and humanitarian efforts. The fight against sexualized violence in conflict is a priority. Norway is doing groundbreaking work to include women and promote gender perspective in the prevention and fight against violent extremism. In order to underline women’s rights, the LIKE programme – equality of opportunity for development – is established. It shall contribute Norwegian experience and competence to support the implementation of gender equality obligations in partner countries in the South. In the last four years, the government has doubled support for education in development cooperation. The education of girls is a major priority in this effort. Organisations such as UNICEF and actions such as the Global Partnership for Education have a strong focus on girls’ education and receive significant support. In March, I represented Norway during the launch of the She Decides initiative. Norway supports the She Decides initiative politically and increases its financial contribution to organisations affected by cuts after the US has announced a reduction in funding for family planning and prevention by reintroducing ‘Mexico City Policy’. This year, Norway has the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers and the main priorities in the field of gender equality are work against violence, work against hateful expressions, equality in employment and men and gender equality. The main theme of the year for the UN Commission on Women was equality in employment. From Norway, the right of girls and women to education and work and the importance of sexual and reproductive health and rights were underlined. I would like to see an even more ambitious final document, but I am pleased that the Women's Commission gave clear policy recommendations on how to strengthen women's position in the labour market. As I have pointed out in this presentation, we are working to ensure that everyone has equal rights and opportunities, regardless of sex, function, ethnicity, religion and outlook on life, sexual orientation and age. We have launched comprehensive measures against violence, and we have arranged for more immigrant women to come into work. We propose a strong, clear and fair protection of discrimination and an effective enforcement system. We're on the right track. Finally, I would like to mention that equality is more than bureaucracy, quotas and state governance. Equality is not the responsibility of any state alone. We all have a responsibility. Similarly, Norway is important for individuals. But it is also a prerequisite for maintaining a high level of well-being and continuing socio-economic development. This government is pursuing an offensive and holistic equality policy. We work for a society with equal rights and opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e432	The President will propose that the statement on the status of promoting equality and diversity in all sectors be addressed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e448	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to one hour and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e459	We've all heard stories about what starts as innocent gambling fun -- a small effort here and there, some small gains -- but that evolve to become addiction, a rush as strong as anything else, that ends in personal bankruptcy and many ruined lives. Game dependencies are not so easy to detect. One does not smell when one has wasted 400,000 kroner at night before one goes to work. One can't look at people that they're dependent on the rule. I first realized that I needed help when the woman discovered that the savings account with 500,000 kroner was empty and I had credit card debt of as many hundreds of thousands – but that was too late. These words come from one of the many thousand gambling addicts in our country. He, like many others, has fortunately received help and doesn't play today, but will forever be dependent and in danger. 120,000 other people with families around them have what exactly this person, or are at risk of being so. Gambling addiction is a major social problem and must be countered. Although gambling for most of us is innocent fun, which we spend small money on, we have to have the gambling addicts in mind when we develop the game policy. It's the most important thing. Game will always exist, we can't forbid it. One has to try everything you can to regulate it and limit the negative consequences for those who have problems. That's why we've been sticking to the Norwegian gaming monopoly and its administrators, Norwegian Typing and Norwegian Rikstototo, for decades. This is how we have ensured a responsible gambling policy, minimising the negative consequences of gambling, setting the threshold for loss of income, following marketing rules, and actively contacting, following and leaving those in danger – and the gambling company itself. In addition, the game model has contributed money to the building of volunteering, culture and sporting activities around the country, as the profits of gambling go back to societal purposes. The Norwegian game model, as we call it, was a political choice when we created it, and it has been a great success. As with other political choices, the model of exclusive rights and responsible gambling policy is not peaceful for all future. On the contrary, we see that every day it is challenged by foreign gambling companies online and their aggressive marketing aimed at the Norwegian market, and by political forces that will liberalize. The foreign gambling companies are unwanted players in the Norwegian gambling market – unwanted because they often represent an irresponsibleness, an unethical aggressiveness, in marketing, because they are not concerned with limiting the negative aspects of gambling, but on the contrary actively contact the addicts and get them out again. And they're undesirable because they don't contribute profits to children and youth, sport and volunteering in Norway, but on the contrary, they generate profits to private owners' pockets, like tax havens. There is an ideological distinction in game policy between those who stand up as defenders of the exclusive model, side by side with those who are addicted to gambling, Norwegian sport, culture and volunteering, and those who want to liberalize, drop more and let them make money on people's gambling addiction by constantly challenging the game model. The Labour Party will work to preserve and strengthen the Norwegian model. We are pleased that the government and the Minister of Culture have also fallen into that position, after much about and though, and that it permeates the message that we are dealing with today. But as is often the case, we see that one government party, the Advance Party, means one thing in government and another in Stortinget. In the comments, they clearly say that they want the Norwegian game model to live and release to foreign players on the Norwegian market. In that sense, the game model is not saved. However, the government does not do enough to show that they believe that the game model will exist, because it is believed that more stringent regulation of the ability of foreign players to advertise on the Norwegian market is needed. Instead, we feel that the door is being held open for these companies, when the conclusion in the notification, that the game model must pass, is not being followed up by a willingness to stop the commercial gambling companies. The government is despairingly doing little about the gambling companies giving the scam in Norwegian law. Daily, 1500 advertising spots are displayed on Norwegian television channels for games and betting that are directed towards a Norwegian audience. Personal enquiries with provocative offers are addressed to customers trying to protect themselves, and Norwegian celebrities are actively used in marketing. That is why the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are proposing strong instruments today when the Stortinget deals with the issue of Norwegian gambling policy. We want the advertising to be stopped, we want websites to be blocked, and we want the Lottery Authority to get more muscles. If we do this, we will strengthen a game model that not only protects vulnerable players as much as possible, but also ensures that the money we spend when we deliver the lottery ticket, buy Flax tickets or play online casinos, go to humanitarian organizations, sports, culture and volunteer. The gaming companies will not stop trying on the Norwegian market, and technology development means that we need to constantly find new solutions on how to protect the exclusive model. Putting the door on fire for companies that want to destroy our game model, as the government has done for their entire period, is not the way to go. With a majority of the proposals from the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party here today, we will do what we can to close the door and end the game of the game model. Some attention has been paid to a small proportion of the distribution of the profits from gambling, namely how to distribute the pot to social and humanitarian organisations in the future. The typing key consists - it is the distribution within this group that is up to change. We in the Workers' Party have, after many laps, concluded that we believe it is best that the ten organisations who agreed to the automatic conciliation continue to keep a fixed share, and that several new organisations must simultaneously have the opportunity to apply for the ever-increasing pot of money that we are talking about here. The potential applied for will be greater than the proportion of the 10 organisations combined. Many applicant organisations are already receiving more games than these ten. The ten go down in proportion, and the increase belongs to those who will seek in the future. We believe there's room to get to this. It's not because we previously had automatic receipts that we think they should receive funds, but it's not to avoid seeing that these ten big organizations have the ability to run the work they're doing, because of the predictability of gambling over the years. We have therefore stated that model 2 is the preferred one. And we're glad that the government itself realizes that the claim of $20 million. NOK to be able to search was too tight, and that it was lowered. In this way, more organisations, every single day, will make a great effort for our society, will have the opportunity to do more with toys. But most importantly, if the proposals of our Christian People's Party are adopted here today, those proposals will ensure that the pot of games increases in the future, by being able to do more to prevent the foreign game companies, and will preserve the responsible game model in the future. We can discuss long and well in this room what is the right level, what is the right distribution key, but the most important thing we have to agree on is that we need to do more to protect the game model, so that we can also have growth in the future, and that we can have a responsible game policy towards the game addicts. With that, I take up the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party's joint proposal in the vote. I also refer to proposal No. 20, with the adjustment that it is only on behalf of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e495	The representative of Arild Grande has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e502	Model 1 and model 2 are the concepts we have become familiar with when dealing with the game message. The representative of Grande explained that the Workers' Party wants to go for the so-called Model 2, i.e. that those who have previously been the subject of the automatic conciliation will continue to have a greater share in the future – a distorted distribution. I want to ask two questions. One is whether this is a transitional arrangement that, when it is finished, would have been in – a little depending on how to calculate – 11 or 14 years, why should a transitional regime be made permanent when it has always been clear that it is just a transitional arrangement? And why does the representative of Grande think that it is more fair for fewer people to share – unless?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e509	I don't agree with the premise that Løvaas here is on the basis of. First of all, this is how we're going to land, regardless of the results, a model that's going to last over time. No matter what you think about the adjustment and size of keys and such things, we believe that there are advantages and disadvantages with both models. We do not believe that one model is only good and the other only bad. We see that the government parties have also carefully assessed both models and have been open to more solutions. When we have landed on model 2, it is because we believe it is important to protect the organisations that have been inside the key, and to ensure predictability for the future also for them. By going for model 1, as proposed by the government, the only possibility for more new ones to be released will be that these organizations have to get big cuts, and we're sceptical about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e516	I thank the representative for the answer, and I understand that this is something you have obviously doubted about, if you could point out the one thing that makes you go away from your previous position, because under the red-green government you just wanted to end a transitional arrangement and go for a fairer and equal distribution to more. When the representative says that you should take something from someone, I wonder if it would not have been more fair that everyone had the same criteria, and that you distributed this equally – a bit like taking from those who have a lot and giving to those who have little from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e521	What is the problem with the model that the government has set up, is that if it is to be the way Eidem Løvaas here presents, that it is to be distributed more equally to all the actors, it means, among other things, that. The Cancer Association must take a big cut. It will go beyond cancer research and the ability of the Cancer Association to follow up cancer victims and their families. We are skeptical of that, and that is why we want to ensure predictability for these organisations as well. Another problem is that an organisation such as the Refugee Aid will fall completely out of the scheme and will have to endure a cut of 20 million. kr. As a result, we believe that Model 2 is the one that ensures predictability for those who have been in the scheme, but also avoids many new ones, and it is in the group of new ones that growth will move forward, so that it is a model that we believe is a win-win situation for all organisations to be covered by this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e528	It is such that changes in conditions and framework conditions are constantly taking place on the Storting. I would like to challenge the Labour Party representative whether it is only historically to have schemes that were challenging for those with gambling addiction, which will form the basis for the forward distribution of money or whether it was not more right to let everyone doing similar work be part of the grant scheme, that it was not just a bad story that was just fair to get money on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e533	I mean, that's exactly what we're doing. Regardless of the model, it will be opened up to many more organisations to be given the opportunity to receive the funds. It is positive, and it must be the case that is really something that the Storting can be gathered about. Then you disagree about the size of the keys here. We have reached a model where we believe it is also important to ensure predictability for the organisations that have been involved in the scheme, which are currently facing a threat of massive cuts that will hit their work hard. We believe it is important to ensure predictability for these organisations, but lock the proportion at the 2015 level, so that the growth of the funds will benefit the new organisations in the future, which will result in far more organisations that will experience growth in the future. That's why we think it's a model that better takes care of all the organizations instead, as the Right Party and the Advance Party put it, that it's going to be a struggle for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e538	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e544	When it comes to gambling, the policy has sometimes had the same character as the policy. It's sometimes been random, sometimes marked by high risk willingness, and sometimes outright appearances of pure gambling. It is therefore gratifying that we now have a necessary and long-term review of the message All to win, which we are debating here today. And we have everything to win, which the representative Arild Grande was in on. Dependence on games is a huge problem for those who are hit and their closest. Like all other addictions, it sends people into a deep crisis, and in many cases entire families are also involved. Too many people are at risk, and that is the main reason why we want to ensure systems that are responsible and sound. But for most of us, games, as practiced in Norway, are a pleasant recreation, a little extra excitement and a social activity that ultimately contributes to both the local sports team and to large humanitarian organisations. Funny tongues have even called gambling an extra tax for us that's a little bad in math, and it's like most of us lose, but we lose control, and we lose small amounts. The dream of running away with the big gain is what makes us try again and again, and then we comfort ourselves that at least there will be some money for good use out of it. Game is a good for most, but a bad for a few, and that is this policy must balance. In the field of policy, things change rapidly, especially in this area due to technological developments. Increasingly more players via the Internet and fewer and fewer people use the traditional games, such as Lotto and the good old tip-up. At the same time, when we see that non-regulated actors are supplying themselves in the market, there is cause for concern. If the foreign game curve continues to rise, while the proportion of gaming on regulated games is falling, we will sooner or later come to a crossroads where today's regulations are no longer enough, but shutting the outside world is not the way to go. Reference is made to the fact that several countries have used IP blocking, but then one forgets to mention that the same countries have opened up licences for foreign players – so you have a more balanced picture, and it is worth taking along. But we need to monitor developments carefully from year to year, and we need to be prepared to look at other solutions when required. It is our opinion that today's model, the so-called exclusive model, is good enough, but it can – and looks like – be challenged in the years to come. It's not about peaceing a system, it's about caring for a system we think is right today, and then we get to make assessments on an ongoing basis. That's why it'll be, among other things. to follow developments in Sweden and Denmark, which have opened up and open up licences for foreign players at several years. Experience from there can give us a different approach in the future. I am very pleased that we are today joining the so-called Model 1 for the distribution of the surplus. A long-term transitional arrangement will come to an end and a necessary cleanup will be finally implemented. We also see in today's Newspaper that very many non-governmental organisations welcome this and point out that it is indeed time. The picture is somewhat more nuanced than the previous representative gave the impression. It is reassuring that everything from the Association for Heart Disease Children, the Church's City Mission, the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association and even the venerable Tourist Association welcomes the notification and choice of the model and is pleased that soon 14 years of transition are over, that is enough. I am, although I should probably soon have made friends for it, surprised at the Workers' Party. The automatic conciliation was a transitional arrangement. It has been going on for 11 years, i.e. the system itself when it is phased out, so that it could be expected that both political parties and other stakeholders would have had enough time to change. Today, the result of ten organisations sharing the profits appears to be unfair to many of the organisations that do not have access to these funds today because in their time they did not have one-armed bandits outsourced. It is strange that the Workers' Party no longer supports the transition to a more equitable system and that they want to ensure a biased distribution in the years to come. Not least, it is strange because they supported this conversion the last time they put themselves in government. In note, the Workers' Party states that they do not want to change today's transitional arrangement because they find it ‘desirable to ensure the long-term and predictability of the organisations behind the automatic conciliation’. Predictability means creating it by continuing temporary arrangements. The Labour Party's attitude to this task makes me think of the somewhat more family-friendly Monopol game, where the instruction booklet actually states in the rules that you encourage to make house rules – or cabin rules, as we call it – to get ahead of the game. We cannot secure the Norwegian gaming market and ensure a fair distribution of the surplus to humanitarian organisations through the Labour Party's house rules. So a little visit to the Christian People's Party. I do not have the custom of quoting the text from the pulpit of Storting, but I feel that when the Christian People's Party has chosen to follow the Workers' Party in choosing a model, it is in its place to bring out something from one of the Gospels, that is, the Gospel of Matthew, chapter. 25 verse 29. For those who don't have it under the skin, I'll read it now: «For him who has, and for him who has, shall have it in abundance. But he that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath. The system, which today, after good and constructive cooperation with parties outside the Committee, is more equitable and more comprehensive. The left has contributed constructively to the communication, and I am also pleased that in cooperation we have found a mechanism to ensure refugee aid, which fell completely short of the new criteria – so that it is also respected. It's been 14 years since the last review of this policy area. There can hardly be 14 years until the next time, as soon as it changes, but at least now we're getting a whole, a responsible and a fairer game policy. It's about time. We have everything to win. At the same time, I would like to promote the proposals that the Right is the co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e580	The representative of Kårstein Eidem Løvaas has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e587	Lamentation of the political opinion of others is always a rule technique, and it shows that the representative may not have the good policy he wished he had in the matter. But in 2015, the representative of the Evening Post says, ‘We’re going to investigate how money spent on foreign games can be recovered and taxed’. It has stranded, and it also shows the representative in its post. But can the representative then give me a good reason why the Right cannot support the proposal for annual reporting on transactions to non-regulated gambling companies, or the possibility of rejecting transactions to non-regulated gambling companies, if he is so concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e594	And the interesting thing about ruling techniques is that they only work if you're allowed to rule. So it's really up to the individual to choose. In the case of taxes and foreign actors, it is often shown that foreign operators operate in so-called tax havens, and places such as Malta, etc. In fact, as long as they are able to move in Norway, they do not contribute at all. So the tax haven with their eyes is the business they're doing in Norway, where they don't contribute to the community at all. And that's right: both the government statement and I have said that we should investigate and see if we could find arrangements for this. You haven't done that today. It has been seen that the best way to pursue gambling policy in Norway today is to continue to work to maintain the exclusive right model and not to allow the licensing of foreign games. And then at the same time, we call for a so-called DNS alert, which makes those who want to or try to play in foreign games get a warning that they shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e601	I record that the representative Løvaas has not achieved or passed through the wish he had in 2015. But we have several proposals together with the Christian People's Party that are going to gain more control, especially with regard to the unregulated gambling and marketing. It was also the representative inside his post. Does the representative then think that what is available now is good enough, or can he also give here a reason why the Right cannot tighten up on the market and let them rule as they do today? For once again, the representative is concerned about his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e606	Yes, there is reason for concern. Gambling addiction is a problem, and it is clear that unprofessional actors are strengthening the problem. As far as marketing is concerned, this government has done several things. Among other things, conversations have been started with the various countries — Spain, the Netherlands and England — to see if the different companies that send from the different countries can stop advertising. It has succeeded in one country – in Spain. Fox and National Geographic have stopped since the government took the initiative and started conversations. In the Netherlands, responses from MTV are still awaited, while in England the companies that send from there have so far said they do not want to comply with this. But it's not like there are any other buttons to press to stop this marketing. It's going through dialogue. It happens by dealing with the AMT Directive, and then it goes on working along those lines. But here the government is doing everything they can to try to stop this, and there's probably no other quick fix for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e611	I may have misunderstood, but it seemed clear to me that Kårstein Eidem Løvaas in his post signalled that the exclusive right model had to be assessed in the future. In this case, there is a serious signal to Norwegian voluntarity — if the government parties do not now stand up for the exclusive right model, but spread uncertainty around it. I want to give Kårstein Eidem Løvaa's opportunity to clean it up and get an answer on whether the government parties – if not the Progress Party, so at least the Right – are saying that when we now land a model, no matter what it is adopted as in the Stortinget, we agree that the Norwegian model of exclusive rights and the Norwegian model of how we secure income for the community will continue to exist in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e616	I can reassure the representative of Grande that we stand for what we are adopting today. At the same time, I pointed out that it was 14 years ago that last review of the game policy – such an overall review as it is now – and it can hardly go 14 years to the next time, because things change faster. The representative Grande himself has shown how to change the position in a relatively short time by going from one model to the other only in a few years. So you decide what you adopt today. As I said in my post, it is today the exclusive right model that best takes care of this. But that doesn't mean, as the representative himself also said, that things are peaceful forever, to use that expression. But that is the system we think best meets the political objectives we have today. It would be irresponsible to close our eyes and say that we've done this for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e621	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e626	Designing the future game policy is not an easy task, because there are many conflicting considerations to be taken up. Not least, this is about people, both that people want to play, and also that people get hurt in order to become dependent on the games they use, with the great consequences it can have for individuals. Therefore, it is important to find a balanced and good model that enables us to maintain the activity that ensures that we also get a lot of money for the volunteer organisations that we all want to support. I want to stay a little while while choosing the model. It'll be fast tribal when we discuss from Stortinget's pulpit. But when the Workers' Party has turned from thinking that one should remove the transitional regime and allow everyone to compete for the means to apply, to say now – I think Grande from the pulpit said something like that – that model 1, like the government and what seems to be a majority in the room today, is going to go for, would result in everyone's fight against everyone, while if you go for model 2, there will be few fights against a few, i.e. someone is somehow more like others, it's a reasoning that it's really hard to follow. Especially when the criticism of Model 1 is as heavy and tough as it is from the opposition parties today, I think it is somewhat strange. It has always been the starting point that this should be a transition model. After 14 years, it must be assumed that the transitional period has at least been long enough, and the transition opportunities have been good enough. Then, of course, it always becomes demanding when good ends are set up against each other. This is what you try to do, as if the work of, for example, The cancer association should be a little less important with a model where everyone has the opportunity to search than with Model 2. It's important, I think, to stress what Grande said in the lineword shift here that both of these models have a very good deal to do, and both of them have some challenges to do. I think that's perhaps the most important thing that emerged in Grande's posts, in that particular area. And there are actually so important arguments in both directions that the Workers' Party has had two positions in a few years. We have to respect that. These are difficult balances. But then I think it's going to roll over what's going to be the majority's conclusion in the hall today, is going to go far. I'm glad that model 1 now seems to have a majority, also because it ensures a part of the volunteer that I'm extremely concerned about. Ensuring access to funds is absolutely essential for Voluntary Norway. I am very pleased that, in particular, rescue and emergency organisations, which are actually making rescue and preparedness work in Norway possible at the level we have, in model 1, are screened in the way it has been put up to. I am also pleased that you have agreed that the financial limit now goes down to 10 million. kr. I think that's very positive, also for some organizations on the emergency side, which then get the opportunity to apply for tipping agents. With regard to the future regulatory model, it is a little strange that one in a way suggests that a decision in this room today will apply forever and always – which I have the impression that the Workers' Party is based on. That's not going to happen, there's going to be a lot of new challenges in the future that we don't have an overview of today. If you look at the development of the game market in the last ten years, no one could sit down ten years ago with their hands on their hearts and say that they knew how this was going to develop. Now the mobile phone has become a game machine. One can play all over the world, unlike what was the case ten years ago. And technological developments are not going to stop there. It's going to continue, it's going to create new opportunities, and it's going to create new challenges. That is why, in a comment, the Progress Party also expresses what is our primary policy, i.e. we see that a long-term licensing model needs to be looked at in order to better understand and control the games offered by foreign players today. But right now we believe, like Eidem Løvaas, what he was up to and said, that the model we have today – I had almost said – can pass. However, it may look quite different in a relatively short time. Also in the case of the models, the licence model or today's exclusive model, there are many arguments in both directions. This is actually not black and white, even though someone is trying to give the impression that it is. We're going to play in the future, we're going to play new games, we're going to play on new platforms, and there'll always be market players in the world who find ways to escape regulation in individual countries. Therefore, it is also important to remember that one is now reviewing EU legislation, which may also have implications for Norwegian gambling policy in the future. So the only thing that is absolutely certain is that for the future, we still have to work to ensure that as many people as possible become addicted to games and that those who become addicted to games are offered proper follow-up, while at the same time having to have a game market that is adequately regulated. And it's going to change over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e645	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e651	We have to assume that the Progress Party in the government is behind the big message we are discussing today. But we see that the Progress Party in Stortinget does not. Now is not the first time we have to deal with the fact that the Progress Party in the Government and the Advance Party in the Storting is in disagreement. We're used to it being a little bit unclear what the party really means, but I'm going to try to get some clarity on it now. The notification describes the advertising pressure of foreign gaming companies as a problem. Then we have to assume that the Progress Party in the Government agrees with that. Does the Progress Party in Stortinget agree that advertising pressure is a problem? And if yes – why is one not involved in supporting proposals to do something about it, possibly having their own proposals in that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e660	I'm not quite sure if I understood the question, but I'm still going to try to answer it, because there's an impression that the Progress Party in the government thinks something different than the Advance Party in the Storting is doing, and that's wrong. I want to refer to my article and to what is in the setting. It is quite clear that the Progress Party in Stortinget and the government are behind the Government's announcement, but that the Progress Party believes that a licensing model will be the right one for the future. It would be very difficult if you were to be in a situation where discussing future models is a problem. It's rather the opposite. One must constantly adapt to technological developments. One must constantly adapt to how the problems develop, how the games evolve, and how to deal with them. I'm not sure we'll be here in ten years discussing anything other than a license model, but we don't know that. We have a position on how we imagine the future to be, but today we believe that the exclusive model can continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e669	I thank you for your answer. In VG 4 October 2013, the Progress Party says: ‘They have married Norwegian Typing and see no other solution regarding funding. And they bet upon an old horse, which is no more in the field. Does the Progress Party still believe this, that Norwegian Typing is an old horse that one must not be betting on in the future – in ten years’ time?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e679	I'm not going to do any horse game analogies here, but Norwegian Typing is what Norwegian Typing is, because it gets to be. I am not sure that Norwegian Typing alone within the exclusive rights model is the future. That's why the Progress Party says that in the future we can imagine a licensing model to get better control of the foreign players, to ensure that they do not circumvent the Norwegian legislation, and to ensure that one does not get into a situation where others actually erode what is the exclusive model. This is not primarily about Norwegian Typing, but it's about how we as a society want to have our game policy, inside or outside Norwegian Typing, which is a very important and big player – the only legal person in Norway in some areas of gaming. I think we have to admit that when the Stortinget set up Norwegian Typing in its time, it was not easy to imagine what the world would look like in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e688	The representative Anundsen said something in his post that I fully agree with, that in the case of future games, we haven't seen the end of it. There's going to be a lot of other games on different surfaces. Then it's important that you have a law that can take account of these new games. As a former Minister of Justice, the representative, Anundsen, is concerned about complying with Norwegian law. We have these illegal games as advertised every day. I expect the Progress Party too to see it as problematic. In addition to what this Communication proposes by action, what does the representative Anundsen see as measures to stop these illegal games in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e693	This is a problem that it is important to take seriously, and so has the government. There have been conversations with several countries to ensure that one will get to a system where one does not pass on the advertising of gambling in Norway on channels that send to Norway from abroad. It has actually been largely successful. That dialogue has largely produced results, even though it has not produced results across the board. I think it is important that we continue that dialogue to ensure that as much as possible is overcome with what cannot be sent as advertising in Norway. At the same time, I think we have to assume that we're part of a world, that world is becoming increasingly technologically complex, and it's increasingly difficult to censor content that we don't want. This is a difficult situation in the future, and I am absolutely convinced that both the government and the Stortinget are taking it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e698	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e703	For some gambling is unproblematic fun. For others, it destroys life. About 120,000 people in Norway are gambling addicts or are at risk of becoming so. It is aimed at this that the Christian People's Party has worked on the government's game message. First of all, I'd like to say that it's great that the government has protected the exclusive model, i.e. Norwegian Typing, and this is how we recognize that if we're to be able to control gambling politically, it's the exclusive model that makes the most of it. The government shall be in favour of securing it at least for a period of time. When dealing with issues like this, it is important to stress the social policy elements of gambling policy. Authorities are responsible for combating gambling addiction and social challenges arising from gambling and gambling. The human tragedies that can result in the wake of gambling addiction are serious, and therefore a game policy aimed at limiting the number of problems with gambling is important. We have an established tradition that responsibility should be put first in game policy, and for the Christian People's Party it is important that this should also lead in the future. The Christian People's Party has listened to several actors working on gambling addiction and has received many good advice. When we worked on the representative proposal from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party on gambling policy, which was the birth aid for the government's game message, the organization Adults for Children came with some important and timely advice that stands out well today. They thought it was important to increase the focus on children's living conditions in gambling-dependent families. It is important to recognise that gambling addiction affects not only the addict himself but the entire family — including the children. Gambling addiction is often associated with taboos, shame, breakaways, unemployment and, of course, with a difficult financial situation for the whole family. It is important to know about children's problems with their parents' gambling addiction, and this requires monitoring, research and professional updates in the field. As I said, we are pleased that the government is at peace with the exclusive model. It is primarily through what we can control gambling policy, not least in order to take care of the social policy aspect. What is a major challenge today is the illegal games that are advertised on Norwegian television every day. In my view, the government should have done far more than what they propose to stop these games. Here we have to do with gambling companies how many of them hide away in tax havens and don't contribute a single penny to society, an industry that kicks off people's gambling addiction. The Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party therefore propose a number of measures in this communication that we believe the government should listen to. We ask the government to establish the blocking of the websites of non-regulated gaming companies, as the Hamar Committee called for. We ask the government to ensure that the Lottery Authority is given the opportunity to require annual reporting by banks on transactions to non-regulated gambling companies and payment providers, and we have promoted a number of other proposals. So we believe that the government could go even further than what they call for in the communication, even though one of the measures is good. I also believe that an alert to those who go into the side of these gaming companies, that these games are illegal in Norway, a pop-up, can help people then choose not to take advantage of these games. Unfortunately, I believe that the massive marketing of these games on Norwegian television, where, among other things, use previous sports stars to advertise the games, so that many people might think that this must be legal. That former sports stars are tempted to join in on this, is a cross of thought in itself, but the point is that we have to do what we can to stop these illegal games, which also contributes to Norwegian Tipping's profits, which go to sports, culture and social organizations, can be greatly reduced if we don't get to stop this, but most of all to take care of those who are really struggling with game problems. The Christian People's Party is also promoting today a proposal in which we ask the government to investigate the basis for withdrawing State pension funds abroad from gambling companies. I find it strange and not least ethically very challenging to defend such investments. On the one hand, most of us say that we want to stop these companies from advertising illegal games, while on the other hand, it seems good that the pension fund gets to invest in them. Today, Stortinget has the opportunity to give the government the task of figuring out the basis for withdrawing these companies, and I hope the Stortinget will take advantage of that opportunity. Then I take up the suggestions that the Christian People's Party is involved in promoting in this matter, and then I will come back again with how we relate to the other solutions to the matter in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e724	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e731	Only a very specific question to the representative, who said in the post that the government should do much more to stop the advertising on the television channels that broadcast from abroad. What concrete action should the government take?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e736	If that were the case that we thought the government had done enough, there would not have been a need to promote several of the proposals that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are united on. My very specific answer is: look at those proposals and see if there is nothing there that both the government parties and the other parties on the Stortinget can support and support.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e742	One proposal that mentions this particular point is proposal No. 6 where it says: ‘The Government is asked to strengthen the exclusive right model by preventing the advertising of illegal gambling on Norwegian channels, if necessary by using the circumvention procedure in the AMT Directive.’ That work is in progress. The representative Becquerad said the government should do much more. What else is the government supposed to do to stop this advertising?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e752	I must almost just repeat my answer: read all the proposals we are making in this matter, proposals that have also been addressed by the Hamar Committee, among others. blocking IP addresses. I think it's possible here to do far more than the government suggests, and I think we owe not least to the game addicts and their families not to stretch their arms in the weather and give up at first turn if it seems that one attempt is not feasible. We have to try what we can to avoid these gaming companies being allowed to send advertisements for the illegal games.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e757	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e762	This notification has been announced for a long time, and the need has also been excessive for a long time. Like other areas where technological development sets the agenda, gambling policy has also been put under pressure. The centre party is, of course, well satisfied with the fact that the notification establishes that the exclusive right model is to be based. Sickness with the Progress Party in the government, which is positive about letting foreign actors in, would be a decision to indicate the exclusive model to be directly eye-catching, and it would probably be the same as ‘bomb Christmas’ in the Storting. All opposition parties have for the longest time travelled a kind of political protection around Norwegian Typing. In addition, there is an overwhelming majority of the population who want to continue the model. A survey of the Blue Cross revealed that 73 pst. the population opposes the entry of foreign actors into the Norwegian market. It is then a bit alarming that the government party continues its argument against the exclusive right model in the adjustment. Not only does it constitute a double communication between the Progress Party in government and in general, but it can also give a vague signal about the further follow-up of the necessary measures to continue the exclusive right model. The model of exclusive rights is important in the sense that it ensures that the profits of gambling are not taken into account but instead channelled for the benefit of all the voluntary organisations, the purposes, which every year, every week and every day, make an invaluable effort in the fields of culture, child and youth, sport, humanitarian and other social activities, in short organisations that provide both activity and meaning in people's everyday lives. The background to the full notification is as stated that the exclusive right model is under pressure, mainly by actors outside the country's borders who, via the Internet and television advertising from a broadcaster outside Norwegian jurisdiction, turn to a Norwegian audience. It is not a recent issue, nor are different alternatives to stopping aggressive marketing unknown or uninhabited in other countries. Therefore, it is a little strange that when the government has taken such a long time to deliver a message to address these challenges, the message appears to be so unfinished in this area. The Central Party understands that a balance between different technical solutions – and not least the legal link to it – must be well established in order not to conflict with other legislation and with freedom of expression. But there is reason to ask why the government has not provided a proper investigation in connection with this reporting work. The centre party has therefore wanted a more offensive message, and we also share the criticism from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party in the vote on that point. The Norwegian gaming market leaks like a sieve, and good ends lose big revenues. Therefore, it is also urgent to close the loophole that foreign players use through the Internet and TV advertising. I would therefore like to inform you that the Central Party will support most of the proposals that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are promoting in the vote. The second major question to be put to the vote today is the choice of the key to the distribution of the funds to the humanitarian and social organisations. In the choice between the two models, it has been essential for the Centre Party to ensure predictability for more than the three response organisations that are satisfied in both models with a continuation of a fixed percentage. It is difficult to see how the seven other organisations will be able to obtain equivalent predictable funding to compensate for this loss of income. Let me add the following: the centre party has absolute sympathy with those organisations that are not part of 10H, and that they want equal treatment with those organisations that have benefited from the automatic conciliation. However, it is not entirely demonstrated that automatically depriving the seven organisations of their fixed share will result in the release of more funds to other organisations. I also have to say that when there is now a majority in order to reduce the minimum application threshold to 10 million. kr, there is also an open question of how much the consequences will be. How many will be covered if one reduces that limit? I expect that today, the Council of State can give us a better reason and a better overview of what the message has given. On the background that I have now outlined, the Central Party has the country that we are going to vote for Model 2 in line with the proposal that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have jointly promoted. Then I must be allowed to return to our vote when it comes to the range of loose proposals in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e787	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e792	The representative, Arnstad, was also involved in his post – there are a large number of non-governmental organisations who are happy to be on the lookout for a model 1. And as they point out, this isn't about taking money from someone; it's about giving more opportunities to participate. These organisations are disappointed and as it says in today's Newspaper: ‘That’s why it feels strange to hear that parties that are usually concerned with solidarity will rather pursue a policy where those who already have the most get more.’ These are organizations that are at least close to the Right Heart, and I'll also assume the Center Party, when we talk about the Sanitation, the Tourist Association and others. The question is: what would the representative of the Central Party say to these organisations, who believe that after a transitional arrangement of nearly 14 years, the word ‘predictability’ is now used to continue to disperse all these sequences of organisations, which finally seem to be able to participate and get a greater share of the cake, and that it is more fairly distributed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e804	Model 1 is not the basic termination of the automatic conciliation procedure. Model 1 is not a principal opening for everyone to stand still on the same foot. Model 1 is a kind of hybrid in which three of the 10 organisations will still have predictable and secure funding, while the seven others will be excluded. That's what I think is remarkable. So one has a sort of compromise for everything, and then one has found a kid to hang it on, and it's called preparedness – preparedness instead of humanitarian or preparedness instead of cancer research or other things. It seems to us to be a hybrid, and I can't see that that arrangement is really so very principleal. The centre party is also a little concerned that when the application amount limit is now reduced to 10 million. kr: What will this mean for competition about the funds in the pot? There is an open question that the Central Party hopes it will be possible for the majority and the Council of State to answer during today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e811	The representative Arnstad has developed a scepticism to reduce the limit to 10 million. kr to participate in the scheme. Ten million. kr instead of 20 mill. NOK 15 million. kr, on which the Committee was set up, means that there will be greater competition for the resources to be allocated. So this is how the Cancer Association gets the opportunity to apply for funds. They're not excluded from the scheme, they're just not earmarked. So it's mentioned here that one doesn't take money from anywhere, but it does, actually, because we have all those organizations – up to a hundred – under 10 million. kr which is now no longer allowed to participate in this scheme. There are quite a number of patients and user organisations who are deprived of the opportunity and who lose 300,000, 400,000, 500,000, 600,000 – yes 700000 – annually. It's a significant amount. So why that scepticism of lowering the limit and letting more people participate? How much readiness are they going to make for so much money?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e818	We've asked an open question about what it means to lower the limit, and I hope that today's debate can clarify how many more there are that actually get the opportunity to come in and apply, and what that means for competition about the funds. As for the choice between model 1 and model 2, it is clear that there is a balance you have to do in any batch. One can probably try to see it in principle, that one is now going to wind up all that has to do with the automatic conciliation. But that's not what the majority advocates; the majority are in favour of making a mixture of one and the other, where some organisations are still considered a little special, while others are in competition. It's kind of the hybrid that we think is a little bit funny. It is no more principle than it would be to go on model 2 and continue the predictable funding for the ten organisations that have had it in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e825	Option 1, adopted today, is a proposal from the red-green government, which the then government felt was not a hybrid, obviously, and one would wind up today's transitional arrangement. Then we should discuss some of the principles. I'm glad that the representative Arnstad was concerned that the discussion of the principal leaders might have gone a little by the way in silence here, for example, it is said. not so much about what the humanitarian contribution should be in this Communication, compared with what is socially useful. That discussion is also unclear. But what has happened since the last time, since the Center Party now does not support its previous model, since they themselves were in government, and today believes that it is a hybrid, and that today's model is more principled, when actually far fewer people get to take part in the money with the system that the Center Party supports today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e833	What has happened is that there has been a communication that the Stortinge has been given to discuss, and thus the large groups in the different batches have been given the opportunity to go through the models that have been submitted in a thorough manner – and we have done so on a seagoing basis. It's not necessarily simple balances. It has not been in this case either. But we believe that the most sensible thing would be to ensure predictable funding for all the ten, even in the period ahead. We just point out that it's not so much more principled to let three of the ten get allowed to be within a sort of predictable regime, while the rest of the ten are going to compete. It is also difficult to see why an absolute ‘ready-to-use’ has been chosen over other key societal purposes when arguing and justifying that model.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e838	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e843	The more ideology characterises a political matter, the more important it is with a good knowledge base. There's a lot of ideology, not to say a lot of politics, in game policy. For a social liberal, gambling policy is an area where several policy considerations need to be assessed against each other. Most importantly, social responsibility, which is also highlighted as the main objective of gambling policy in the Communication. Another consideration is the need for a game model that is not so detailed and so pervasive that it is contrary to any technological developments. A third consideration is that gambling should not only be a source of income for social and humanitarian work, sport and culture, but also contribute to the independence and development of civil society on its own premises. Last but not least, the distribution of peak profits to social and humanitarian organisations is one of the most controversial measures in the Communication. The left has come to support the government's preferred option 1, where the aid scheme is opened slightly and fewer organisations receive support based on claims. This model had some weaknesses, such as that the Refugee Aid falls out if their activity takes place mainly abroad. I am therefore very pleased that the Left has joined the government parties at an agreement point where, through a majority comment in the revised national budget for 2017, we are giving leadership to the state budget for 2018, when these changes are due to take effect, so that the Refugee Aid can continue its activity in the light of this loss of income. Then we assume that the government will follow the consequences for other organisations that are still in the scheme. I am also pleased that the Left and Government and the rest of the Storting, as I understand it now, agree to lower the threshold in order to seek support from the scheme to 10 million. kr. It is important for many organisations that are also a national hub for volunteering around the country. Together, these changes contribute to a more transparent and dynamic system in which several organisations can apply for comparable and objective criteria. Although the scheme was set up as a compensation for lost automatic receipts, it is not appropriate for a national aid scheme to be cemented on such premises for the future. I think it is a little strange that the Workers' Party has turned 180 degrees in relation to what was their own model in this case when they themselves put in government. I have registered that some organisations may be so concerned that there is now a calm and predictability of the scheme in the future, as of which model we choose today. I believe that the solution that the Left has now come up with is the one that is best suited to create such calm, as opposed to the reverse operation that the Workers' Party has carried out. That being said, the Left believes that we should ideally look at the entire key model again, as sedentating support for three preparedness organisations is not ideal either. Making volunteering and civil society dependent on profits from state gambling is unfortunate both for civil society and for gambling policy. That is why we have put forward our own proposal to look at how the Norwegian Typing surplus can be phased into the state budget, and to review principles and criteria for state support to non-governmental organisations. The target must also be arm's length distance for Norwegian Typing. The last time we discussed gambling in this room, health was added to the key. Many of the organisations involved at the time are also affected when we are discussing a completely different part of the key today. I could also mention that we are discussing the impact of today's decision on cancer research, while state aid for research should strictly come from other government budget items than those that are to be supported under the will. It's a part that's not related. There are many patient and user organisations that are currently completely losing both support and the opportunity to seek further support. What is the difference between the Cancer Association and the National Association of New Patients and Transplanted People — one can die of both cancer and kidney failure — and that a sum of money in a secretariat should make the difference between the important job they both do is a little difficult to see. That's why we should also have a complete review of the key. There are many actors, many ministries, who currently manage funds. Something is in the Ministry of Health and Welfare's budget, which is in the Ministry of Culture's budget, and other parts of it are in the Ministry of Children's and Gender Equality's budget. When we look at the award criteria of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, they are very objective, but also very concrete and detailed, while other parts of the key have no specific specification. Today, the Left also promotes proposals to ask the Government to present a model for a strictly regulated licensing system. I record that the government has abandoned this idea and called about the exclusive model. The conclusion is based on two reports — one from Rambøll, which states that the income base of the state and the voluntary nature is hardly significantly affected by a licence model, and one from the Lottery Authority, which states that the exclusive right model is preferable. I have to come back to further proposals from the Left in a new post. I am promoting the proposals from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e868	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e873	In fact, gambling policy is a relatively important part of the policy of a society like Norway, for at least three reasons: first, because many people actually participate in games, so it concerns a lot of people. Secondly – and let’s be honest about it – because it’s significant revenues for very important purposes, it’s actually an important source of funding. At the same time, games create major problems for a good number of people – not just quite a few either – and thus have quite major social challenges attached. Especially the combination of the last two things requires a particularly large responsibility from us politicians and from the state to conduct a responsible game policy, both because one should be particularly remarkable when important income comes from something that can create dependency and challenges, and of course because it gives a special balance. A clear multiple in Stortinget looks at the one-right model as an important part of the answer to this. The second part of the answer seems to me to be increasingly willing to challenge ourselves when it comes to new tools in response to technological change and innovation in the market that this is about. That's what I thought the message was doing, at least at some points, but I didn't think she was doing it well enough. On the other hand, I would like to pay tribute to the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party, which I think has produced many constructive and wise proposals that SV will vote in favour of here in the Chamber. I might be a little surprised that the government party can't support at least a few-three of those suggestions in the option. When it comes to a new model for the distribution of tippers for humanitarian and social purposes, we are faced with what we need to call a real and quite difficult balance. I might be a little surprised at the tone that some people have used in their posts up here, for example. the previous speaker who, like the chattered with the ‘spinning operation’, the total revolution, etc. Maybe we politicians could occasionally be better off admitting it when it's actually a real dilemma, because on the one hand, organizations shouldn't come out worse today because they chose not to have slot machines many years ago. It's unimaginable. On the other hand, it is also unthinkable if a person should come out worse today because one 15 years ago had slot machines – when it was actually quite legal that time. This is what we call an insoluble dilemma. There's not a perfect solution for everyone – that's the way the world sometimes is – and I think one with the advantage of just being able to say it and then reflect on which one wants to focus the most. Our vision is that model 1 best solves this dilemma, even if none of the solutions are perfect. It does so because it is the model that today and in the future has the greatest degree of non-discrimination between organisations that should be non-discriminatory. A reasonable model in the future is after all the most decisive consideration, especially because the transition period to it has been long, and one has known that it goes that way, because it was the previous government, the red-green government, added up to the end of our period. And so is it, as far as I can judge, that most of the organizations – perhaps apart from all of them – can economically come out of it just as well, even though I think we also have to admit that it will go beyond their perpetratorship. It's a challenge that's absolutely understandable. What one could ask questions about, I thought, is the emergency argument. It's not obvious, and yet we choose to support it. I see the point that that's special. Per now we're going to change the limit to 10 million. kr. We think we have to be conservative in doing what can bring many in, when we see some big organizations in a slightly less prudent situation, and we will then go against many of the Christian People's Party's loose proposals. We thought that one should go through this first. So let's make a suggestion that's specific to the Refugee Aid. Because they don't want the possibility, like the others, to search the same pot, they're in a particularly difficult situation. And the proposal that others have put forward does not provide sufficient clarity and clarification in it, as far as I can judge. I'll deal with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e892	Then the representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, mentioned the proposal he referred to. No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e899	In December, the government presented the paper on gambling. It is the first comprehensive review of this important policy area since 2003. In gambling policy, it is the consideration of the players and the game addicts who have the top priority of the government and who have therefore been leading the message. The exclusive right model, where Norsk Tipping and Norsk Rikstoto have the exclusive right to offer the biggest and the most risky gambling, a good tool for achieving the goals of gambling policy, we are pleased that the Stortinget today wants to ring the bell. Nordmann’s compulsiveness is channelled into an attractive and versatile gaming offer provided within the framework of accountability measures. That way, we minimize the negative consequences that could result from gambling. At the same time, the model contributes to supporting societal purposes. Some say that the exclusive model does not work and that it has developed a large, unregulated market. However, we have a solid knowledge base that shows that these are quite groundless claims. There are only a few players, about 4 pst. by the population, although many are enough, playing with the non-regulated actors. This group has not grown in recent years, despite the massive development of the digital platforms and enormous marketing pressures. In fact, it's quite remarkable that these numbers haven't increased, and we're going to be very grateful for that. The government believes that the exclusive right model works well today and respects the social policy objectives in the field of gambling. However, digitisation has created new challenges and opportunities for most industries, and the gambling industry is no exception. In the Single European Sky Communication, the Government has therefore proposed several measures to strengthen the position of regulated operators and limit the access of non-regulated operators to the Norwegian market. Balance is the keyword in gambling policy. Finding the right balance between social policy considerations and attractive games, between the need for restrictions and the need for development, between control and freedom. We are discussing many in-depth actions in the communication, but there are several that we do not choose to go further. For example, we believe that rather than blocking websites, DNS alerts can act as an effective information tool, while at the same time we do not risk blocking unintended sites on the Internet. We are working to obtain an explicit exemption for gambling advertising when the AMT Directive, which regulates television broadcasting in the EU and the EEA, is now to be revised and we are in dialogue with ESA and the Commission to investigate the scope for action of national measures under today's directive. The distribution of profits to social and humanitarian organisations is a system that we propose to be made permanent, that transitional arrangements should now be abandoned, and that more people, based on objective criteria, will have the opportunity to apply for grants. This will provide a simpler and fairer and better order. We can see what many of the voluntary organizations write in a chronicle in the newspaper today: ‘It is therefore strange to hear that parties that are usually concerned with solidarity will rather pursue a policy where those who already have the most receive more. It will be extra cynical to present it as taking money from the 10H organisations. It has never been intended that this should be a permanent arrangement. How long are some organisations supposed to serve on the choice of slot machine revenue, something that everyone in retrospect sees as wrong? This is an invitation to the other parties on Stortinget to choose the solidarity solution. Let us be clear: this is not taking money from anyone – it’s giving many more opportunities to participate.” I hope that everyone stands behind the model that we are going for today, and that it will be for the best for the whole volunteer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e917	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e922	What I think we can agree on in this room is that no matter what model to adopt, the most important thing we have to do is secure the Norwegian game model and ensure that we can also have growth within these funds in the future, so that organisations can increase predictability and increase resources. I hear the Council of State says that for this government it is the gambling addicts that are the first priority. Then I wonder why the party of the Council of State is voting against all of the proposals we are promoting to protect the model of exclusive rights and to protect the addicts. Why won't the Council of State give the Lottery Authority the tools they're asking for? Why won't the government stop the illegal advertising? And why does the government make known and other trips with the marketing of foreign gaming companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e929	First, I would like to say that I am very pleased that today we are getting together on the exclusive model, and that the Stortinget is also so clear that it is the concern of the game addicts who are most important. So I would say – to extend the powers of the Lottery Authority – that one of the proposals that is being promoted today by the Workers' Party is already practice, so there might have to be a misunderstanding. Secondly, with regard to advertising for non-regulated gambling players, there is something we are working on against ESA and the European Commission. The Ministry of Culture conducted a seminar in London a few months ago, and when, for example: When it comes to blocking, we see that what the countries that have introduced it say is that it has a consequence on public information, but that otherwise we see that it is not very effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e936	I record that the Minister of Culture says that we are happy that we are gathering on the model of exclusive rights, and I wish I could share those words. But when we hear the Right Representative here, the representative of the Advance Party and the representative of the Left – who has even suggested breaking up the exclusive model – I wonder how strong that collection is, and does the Minister for Culture really have back coverage in his own party in order to claim that we are now gathering on the exclusive model? I hear a completely different signal, that the government parties are now considering opening up this whole ballet, and then we really have a situation where the future of the organizations, regardless of which model you choose, is in play. What I do not receive a response from the Council of State is: What has the Council of State actually spent its time on – when it was already announced two years ago that action should be taken in the communication now under consideration, but where there has not yet been any promotion of a single measure that will effectively protect the model of exclusive rights and those dependent on gambling?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e944	When a government presents a big message where we recommend Stortinget – in this case – to stop calling about the exclusive right model, it is difficult to be much clearer, even when the two parties are behind it today. So I almost have to say that I think the representative Grande hears what he wants to hear, and then there's not so much more I can do about it. Today, we get a majority who want the exclusive model to be the model we run for in gambling policy, and I'm very happy for that. When it comes to advertising from foreign gambling actors, or when it comes to blocking, it's right that we've assessed it. We believe that many of the measures are interventional, which we believe will not have the effect that is desired, and therefore we have not recommended it to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e951	Then I just have to say that either the Council of State has not followed the debate today, or she has no control over her own troops in the Stortinget. For what we hear from Eidem Løvaas here is that you stand by it today, but that this should be assessed – regardless of what we decide today – quite quickly. We hear from Anundsen that they are directly against what the government is proposing to secure the exclusive model, and we are even getting a proposal promoted by the Left today, which we are going to vote on, which is about opening up to licensing games. This clearly shows that only the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party stand by the model. The councils should be happy to see that we can stand pretty close to each other, because if you have to lean on your own game, it's quite obvious that the whole model is in play. When the message is so weak about action and they vote against our proposal, does that mean that the government is actually planning to open up this whole discussion?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e956	Now I think I have to be clear again – and now I can talk at least for the government parties: You're going to vote for the exclusive model. We believe that today it is the model that best takes care of the addicts, but technological development is moving fast. I think that, given both the digitization we see, and how fast development is in the field of technology, it's saying how the solution and the models you're going to go into is in 20 years, in 10 years, quite difficult for some of us, both in the media field, which Grande knows well, and in the field of gambling. But today, the Stortinget and a majority of the Stortinget are calling about the exclusive model. That is what we want to be governing our gambling policy, and that is the consideration of those addicts who are the most important in gambling policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e961	Whatever model you choose, there are organisations that have been involved in this scheme and have received funds, which are now falling out. The Christian People's Party is very happy that we've got the Left and the government parties to lower this ceiling from 15 million. kr – original 20 mill. NOK – to 10 million. kr, but nevertheless there are organisations that are small, which are not likely to be in this scheme, and many of these organisations are now afraid that there will be a class distinction in the organisational life of Norway. One of these organizations is the Anti-racist Centre, which has received funds, but which is now falling out of this scheme. The means of gambling are the freest of the money, and I wonder if the Minister for Culture has thought of compensation for those organisations that are now falling out and that are no longer going to be the recipients of the funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e966	That's why we've had this transitional system for so many years, for eleven years, just to adapt to a new everyday life. This is also why the government chose to extend for another year, so that it has the opportunity to plan for the changes. So it is that this government – in good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left – has strengthened voluntaryism. With the grassroots share now increasing, and with VAT compensation for volunteering, I am pleased that we have achieved a total strengthening of non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e971	In my post, I asked the Council of State today to clarify some things when it came to reducing the minimum application amount to 10 million. kr. It is a proposal that can be adopted in the Grand Duchy today, and then one should well expect the government to have an overview of its actual consequences. How many more will enter and compete in the scheme, it is necessary for Stortingen to have an overview before examining that proposal. The model proposed by the government parties here is also not very principleal. One has also chosen to pick out some organisations that will be allowed to get special conditions. Then I wonder why a person has chosen just readiness – why has a non-selected cancer research, humanitarian purposes or other things? Why is it precisely these three preparedness organisations that are to be dealt with in a special way in relation to the other major important tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e978	I can tell the representative Arnstad: it is because we are based on the model of the red-green government, on which they laid down, where the government of Stoltenberg II said that it is ‘up to, however, that three organisations with specific emergency tasks are guaranteed a fixed share after the transitional period in order to avoid the deterioration of emergency and rescue services in the future’. These three organizations were the Red Cross, the Rescue Company and Norwegian Public Aid. So we're doing what the Stoltenberg government laid down, follow the model they chose to send to the hearing. So I don't know what is little about it in principle, but the Stortinget has also stated, in the emergency notice, that the preparedness in Norway depends entirely on the voluntary organisations. So I'm glad we're making sure of it. The Stoltenberg II government also said that it is not reasonable for previous automatic receipts to serve as a permanent criterion for the allocation of these funds and that it wanted this to be based on criteria on which more organisations could apply. So we're proposing a solution based on the model promoted by the Stoltenberg II government. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e987	It's about time. Governments have to answer that in their next line. The next replicant is the representative Ketil Kjeseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e994	The debate on the exclusive right model and the licence model is one of those that goes here today, and is perhaps one of the more principled. The Council of State itself was concerned about the development of the non-regulated actors. We all see on television channels that send from abroad, that there are great interests in this, and that they are trying to influence us, and it is obvious that there is a lot of money in this. The Council of State and the majority now choose to proceed with an exclusive right model. It also means that Norsk Tipping is facing a situation where they are pushed to compete with the non-regulated actors and the increasing budgets with which they enter. Does not the Council of State fear that this will lead to Norwegian Typing becoming a more aggressive monopolistic in the Norwegian market, and that we will thus face the challenges we face in terms of gambling addiction? Furthermore, gambling addiction Norway has opted for a licence model and not to continue with an exclusive right model.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1003	I think the representative Kjeseth is asking a very relevant question, because in game policy there are many dilemmas, and this is a balance. We know that Norwegian Typing closely follows the players, remembers them and makes contact with them to offer follow-up if they see that there is aggressive gambling, while the government has introduced loss limits. So we've done a lot, and we have a good control regime to protect the addicts. On the one hand, Norsk Tipping is going to take care of it, while also offering enough attractive games, so that players don't switch to other types of games that we know create more addiction. So this is the balance to be achieved in game policy, but it is an important question the representative asks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1008	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1016	There is a lot that is at stake when we are debating the future game policy today. As many have experienced, foreign gambling companies are in line to win markets in Norway, which, of course, challenges the Norwegian game model, the exclusive right model. It is a model that takes responsibility for a controlled gaming industry and at the same time is the best friend of Norwegian sport, Norwegian volunteering and culture. It's a model that comparable countries around us envy us. That some foreign gaming companies are very interested in entering the Norwegian market is clear. Obviously, huge sums are spent advertising illegal games, on consultants and on other types of activity to attract attention. During the filming meeting with the Committee and various players from the gaming industry, we were told that time is overdue to release commercial forces in Norway. Entrepreneurs with great profit for private owners, often established in areas of the world that are not exactly known for their fair tax policy, addressed this issue. It's an unusually bad idea. Not only does the Workers' Party think so, we also have sport, volunteering and Norwegian cultural life with us on it. Many in this Chamber also agree that the Norwegian model of exclusive rights, with a responsible gambling policy, is working against addiction and generates billions of income for teams and associations across the country. The model is worth fighting for. It's worth fighting for, for example, Every sixteenth penny of money spent at Norsk Tipping, goes for good purpose. This is the core of what we are debating today, and that is also what is at stake. I am pleased that the Right Party government abandoned the idea that there would be competition in the gaming market, but we should not forget that this was really their wish, at least in parts of the government. This is probably also why we do not see any further measures in today's notification to exclude the foreign gambling companies. As a mother of three young people, I am upset when I see that their typical TV channels are full of advertising for games, how easy games can be won, and where the profit disappears into anything other than Norwegian sport. But this is the government's responsibility. They had the opportunity to take action today; instead, these companies are growing big and strong on the Right and the Government Guard of the Advance Party, possibly that was the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1029	The model of exclusive rights is a guarantee of regulation of the responsible forms of gambling, while the profits of gambling go to important tasks for society. That is why it is good that the Right Party and the Advance Party now defend the model, even though the Progress Party in government and the Advance Party Group do not agree in this matter either, and that there is also doubt here in the Chamber. Games are too many fun and exciting, but for some games are a challenge, and delimiting it is important. There are different forms, and I hope that all possibilities are put into practice. We see that Norwegian Typing is in advance, but we see that foreign gaming companies do not want to do the same. Aggressive marketing makes the everyday life of gambling addicts difficult. It makes the impression — in consultation — that people committed to their addiction are contacted by companies offering free games or new bonuses. It's the same as calling drug addicts and telling about their new wine and offering good deals. It shows that such companies should be controlled, not allowed to advertise their games – with or without old sportsmen and artists. The need for society to invest in as many treatment options for gambling addicts as it is now – together with volunteers – shows the challenges we face. Gambling addicts in Norway believe that the offer given is too poor, especially in the districts, and that there is a need for more knowledge of what can be done better. Families are destroyed, and for too many people, when gambling takes over, lives are razed. That should worry us. If more people get the chance to run in the gambling market in Norway, it increases the pressure. That is why we are also promoting proposals that restrict advertising, including legal ones. But when 90 pst. measures must be put in place to address the TV advertising coming from the foreign gaming companies. That is why we have proposals to prevent advertising of illegal games. Then we have another bingo measure, it's a 30-second rule that gives people time to think about. Together with the Christian People's Party, we want to continue this. You don't have to make that game more attractive, as it's called in the rationale for changing it. The goal must be to reduce the player. The 30-second rule has been effective in reducing risk of gambling, and therefore it should be retained – again to mitigate the pressure on those who are addicted to gambling.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1042	I want to join the representatives who have been to the pulpit and honestly and honestly say that this is demanding. I've said it before, and I'll say it again: when we discuss game policy, I have a bad feeling in my stomach. Now, do we do the right thing? Do we now take the grips we should take? It's demanding. First, it is demanding because this activity is a situation in which many people have problems. Here I don't think it's so interesting to think percentages, but there's a lot of people and their families who get problems because we have this activity. Fortunately, we have taken action that will make it fewer, and that it will be better to follow up, but it is still a challenge in game policy that we know that activity creates problems for individuals. The second challenge is that there is an offer in huge change. Here, new things happen all the time. User habits change. These are new platforms. There are completely new ways to think about it. Generations think in a completely different way. And the third is, of course, the international aspect that makes cross-border access a completely different one from today. We're going to deal with this and make a strict but fair policy. It's also challenging. Norwegian Typing has correctly introduced an effort limit, and we must say that after we from the committee have brought it up with them several times. But I'm a little surprised when it comes to foreign companies that are doing so very aggressive marketing, while Norwegian Typing is glorifying. There is a lot of marketing from Norwegian Tipping as well, and they have a clearly stated goal of reaching more young people with their activity. I think it's demanding, but we have to find the best solutions in the situation we're in. So it's this thing with who's going to get the profit. Yes, it is also demanding. Someone's falling out. Some will have changed the framework conditions. There is nothing new in politics. And there we have also tried to find the mechanism that gives the most justice and the most access possible. Then I have to say that when we hear people from the red-green parties asking questions about how we've come up with what we've done, yes, then we can refer to their own budget proposal in the transition on the way out of the government offices, where they just chose these three organizations to receive these funds. So that's nothing new.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1057	It is claimed from the government parties from this pulpit that the red-green government had landed on a model. It is wrong with all due respect, and it is claimed that you have changed your mind here. It is quite interesting that that criticism comes from parties who, first of all, already in this debate are already warning in advance that they are going to change their minds, and that they are going to re-examine the entire Norwegian game model for the next majority period or in the long term. At the same time, we know that the same government has changed view not only once, but twice when it comes to the entry criteria, where the government first suggested that the limit should be 20 million. kr, then negotiations in the committee changed to 15 million. NOK, and then we get a loose proposal in the room where we're going to make a statement of 10 million. kr. What we hear during the debate here is that only the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party stand up for the Norwegian model, which for the future ensures income for culture, volunteering and sport. For the Right, it seems that it is ready to discuss new models quite soon. The Progress Party openly states that they are opposed to the exclusive right model, and the Left supports proposals for licensing arrangements. That is what is new in this debate, as we experience here today, and I think that is actually quite dramatic. For whatever model we choose – and we can discuss until the cramp takes us, the size of the keys etc. – what will be crucial for all the organisations in this scheme will be that we will also be able to maintain a game model for the future, where we will prevent the illegal games, and where we will ensure that the revenue benefits the community, the volunteer, the sport and the culture. The Minister of Culture here claims that they are now in favour of the model of exclusive rights, but then I recommend that the Minister of Culture speak with his parliamentary basis in Stortinget. So the Central Party's Marit Arnstad asked what the consequences would be by lowering the entry criterion to 10 million. kr. We need, before we can decide on such a proposal, that the Minister of Culture of the Stortinget says something about: What will this lead to in the number of organisations, and how will this affect the future allocation? Then I would like to make a explanation of vote: the Labour Party supports proposals 18 and 19 from the Christian People's Party and proposal 21 from the Left. So a little comment on proposal 27: We believe that the Refugee Aid is protected by the proposal we are promoting to go for model 2, but I understand that this is being promoted, as it falls completely through model 1, and I assume that the government parties find solutions, although it does not ensure predictability and security as promoted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1075	As I said, I am pleased that the government parties and the Left support the Christian People's Party in setting the minimum limit in the application basis for Norwegian Tipping's profits to social and humanitarian organisations to 10 million. kr. I look forward to hearing the Minister of Culture say something about the consequences of this. But I hope that the government parties and the Left will also be involved in considering proposal No. 14, that we ask the government to allocate Norwegian Tipping’s profits to social and humanitarian organisations, taking the entire organisation’s total costs into account for the calculation – and not just the central level. Otherwise, I am glad that the Labour Party warns that they support the proposal of the Christian People’s Party. 18 and 19 – No 18 is to ask the government to identify the offer of gambling addicts and to propose measures to better address gambling addicts where shortcomings are identified. Because it turns out that when it comes to the offer of gambling addicts, it's quite unevenly distributed around the country, it's a little dependent on where you live. And it shouldn't be like that. So I'm happy for that support. I also hope that the Government Parties and the Left will consider supporting these two proposals. I can't see that there should be anything wrong with that. With regard to proposals made by the parties who are not on the committee, I would just like to inform you that the Christian People's Party will support the Left's proposal No. 21 and 25.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1084	To the debate on the exclusive right model and a licensing system, on which the Left is proposing today, some of the things we are discussing relating to a licensing system is precisely the desire to regulate those that we are not getting regulated today. And then we're talking about the digital perimeter. To what extent is Norway able to keep operators out of it? We see that today is very difficult, either because there are gambling opportunities on the Internet, or because you can advertise on TV, television broadcasts sent from all over the world, to Norwegian consumers in Norway, and where we are part of international law, which Stortinget is difficult to intervene in. This is, as many have been involved, a demanding debate. The left's position on this is not that we want to abolish the exclusive right model because it's a monopoly that only sport wins. On the contrary, we want to preserve and regulate that type of activity. And once again, with such a discussion, there may be even more benefits than those who get the opportunity to get the funds distributed today. So to the discussion about access to the drugs and the $10 million. kr, which is now being set as a limit to taking part in the funds: no one has been very specific about how many people are actually losing it, and so it is up to hundreds of organisations that are not now able to access these funds. That's a significant number, and that very few discuss that consequence, is a bit surprising. The left tried to bring in a proposal where we take a little bit of the pot and set off for the distribution topic in Bufetat, which nevertheless distributes to all these organizations already on fairly objective criteria. We haven't achieved that yet, but we're very happy that the majority is going in for 10 million. kr, it is, after all, more democratic. It gives several opportunities to access the money. As I watched from the committee panel, all the big parties set that at $15 million. kr should be the limit. You've come down from 20 million. NOK, but it would be a very topping of the funds. Those who have been on us in these debates on the distribution of funds are all the big institutions that can afford to have a lobbying device, while all the hundreds who are struggling to get the ends to meet do not have those resources. What we're also going to notice in this debate is that we're making some of the strongest considerably stronger without giving them a clear mandate for what they're going to spend the money for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1093	First of all, there should be no doubt that the red-green government made its decisions. I refer to the budget presented for 2014: ‘It is not reasonable for previous automatic receipts to serve as a permanent criterion for the allocation of these funds.’ So they wrote that. And they wrote that on the basis of the hearing, the ministry had established new criteria for which organisations can apply for these funds. And it said that those who were in the arrangement today were to enter into a new arrangement based on the new, more objective criteria. And finally, it says, However, the ‘government’ – i.e. Stoltenberg II – ‘provides that three organisations with specific emergency tasks are guaranteed a fixed proportion after the transitional period in order to avoid future deterioration of emergency and rescue services. This concerns the Red Cross, the Rescue Company and Norwegian Public Aid.’ That's pretty clear. I hear that Grande thinks they didn't make up their mind, but they did, and that's what goes on. That must be good. So just a small point that has received little mention – the representative Mandt was to a great extent involved, with the opposite sign of what I want – that in the bingo activity it is now a small change that makes it more attractive to play the bingo games of these entrepreneurs. They have had a great downturn because Norwegian Typing has inserted machines that you can stand and play on continuously, while there have been strong demands that there should be 30 seconds between the games of the others. These are very different conditions. Now we're fixing it a little bit so that they can get their income. Finally, a comment on what there is agreement on and not. I think maybe Arild Grande could have waited for the vote. Then he'll see that there's a solid majority in the Storting to continue the exclusive model. So it's the reconciliation in the hall that tells us that. There must be pretty desperate thoughts that make one try to so doubt it when one in a few hours is going to have a vote that shows that there is a great deal of consensus about it. But at the same time, several speakers, including myself, are aware that this changes so quickly that we have to be willing to see how it changes. It's the distribution of profits to good organisations that are the bearer of this business to Norwegian Typing. There is a political dividing line in the very debate that it is important to be aware of. We do not want it to be the only right – regardless of participation and profits. I don't think the Labour Party and the Arild Grande want that either. If the revenue of the organizations goes down, we'll have to grips with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1114	The representative Harberg corrected one of the two messages in the post to the Grande, so I can correct the other. On page 141 of the paper, the government's proposal amounts to 15 million. So that's not something you've changed. That was what was proposed in the communication, and then the Stortinget has a proposal for consideration later on on whether to lower the limit to 10 million. kr. The Minister of Culture may want to say something more about it, but it is the Storting that has taken the initiative. It is the Christian People's Party that has promoted the proposal and gets a majority for it – and should be happy that it gets a majority, because I think they've made reflections on why they wanted it this way. I am very pleased that the Right, Left and Advance Party also support this proposal. In addition, I would just like to mention that the Right and the Progressive Party also support proposal No. 18 and proposal No. 19 from the Christian People's Party, so that it is also referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1123	I would like to say that I hope the majority who today support the exclusive right model is happy. This is a joyous day for many out there, for many families and others who are affected by gambling addicts, and who today are happy that the Stortinge is putting up with a sound game policy, where we take into account the gambling addicts of all, first and foremost. And I think, as politicians, we should be a little aware that political games should not overshadow this debate, which is important for the lives of so many people. That there are many children, spouses and relatives who experience a terrible everyday life because there is a gambling addict in the family, we should have respect for. That is why I am pleased that a majority in this Chamber today is so clear that the model of exclusive rights we are calling about – it should be the very centre of the game policy. So it's important for me just to say that when it comes to television advertising for non-regulated gambling players, we're actively working by the government to get an explicit exception for gambling advertising in the scope of the directive, just to get a bigger room for action for national action. Recently, I received positive signals from the Commission that it could be possible to implement national measures with the current directive. This is also the basis for the fact that at least the government parties do not support the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, precisely because it is a good process for it, and where we get very good signals. The second is related to blocking and DNS notification. We now hear from a lot of those who have introduced it, that it has an impact on, are information measures, and that it is not a measure suitable to stop illegal gambling. To the proposal to extend the powers of the Lottery Authority and several other proposals: at least one of them is already in place. That is why at least the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, do not support the proposals promoted by the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. These are things that are in process, suggestions that are practices already today. I feel that there is a very large consensus in this room on the future of gambling policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1136	The next speaker is the representative of Arild Grande, who is also the working rapporteur, and thus still has 3 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1141	First of all, history writing. Yes, it is true that we thought – and still believe – that the fact that one had previously automatic revenues should not be the basis for the future allocation. We're standing by. At the same time, when creating new models, there are different reasons for doing so. As I said earlier in the debate, there are advantages and disadvantages with both model 1 and model 2, and we have gone into them thoroughly, with an open mind. When deciding on matters that are of particular importance to those involved – the organisations – but also for the purposes of the organisations, it is important that the Stortinget not only has the ability to think in principle, but also to think rationally about how the grips we are doing in this house affect the everyday life of the organisations, of people. We have come to believe, after much thought, that Model 2 is the best care for the preparedness organisations – which we were also concerned about, as it is pointed out quite correctly, and which are respected in both models – that we ensure predictability for the 7H, which was within the scheme, but which, with Model 1, will risk a large cut and reduction in their activities and in their work towards members and other people, and that new organisations, which will be the ones who will experience the greatest growth in the future, will be released. We have done so, and that is what we believe and balances a number of different considerations. Had the Right only been equally eager to work for measures that ensure the Norwegian exclusive right model, the Norwegian game model and the gambling addicts, as they have been after reviewing old documents, I think we could have done something good – but they are obviously not. It is then pointed out by the Right-Representatives that there will be new technologies that create the need to look completely new in this field. There's nothing new about new technology – the Internet came quite a long time ago, people. To the fact that there's a new technology: it's a continuous development all the time, which Norsk Tipping manages perfectly well. What's important here is whether you're willing to stand up for the exclusive model, whether you're willing to stand up for the gambling addicts, and whether you're willing to do what's required to prevent illegal games. But also in this area, we see the classic lines between the right-hand and the left-hand sides of the policy – the will to use the tools we have. It is not political games to make proposals that will protect the addicts, but it is political games to claim to be in order to protect addicts, but to vote against all proposals that will take care of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1155	I had drawn myself to answer the representative Arnstad, for I forgot that instead, but I just have to comment again on the representative Grande. The thing about political games is not very interesting. I think everyone in the room here understands what the representative Grande is doing. It's almost election time. But when it is said that what worries me is the uncertainty that the representatives of Grande and the Labour Party are now spreading towards the addicts and their families. The government has proposed the exclusive model. The government is given a majority of its policy in this Chamber today. The size is most likely to assume that the exclusive right model is sought as the leader of Norwegian gambling policy. That's what the Storting is most likely to decide, and then I might think that magnification representatives should deal with it. But then to the representative Arnstad's question. She was concerned that this was a hybrid model, and that it was little principleal. It's a Stoltenberg II budget, where they outline the model, both with the preparedness organisations to be drawn out, and that more should be involved, on which we have based our work. We've grounded the Stoltenberg model. We were very surprised that the Workers' Party would not support its own model and wonder a little about what has happened, but I am glad that the government gets a majority for its model today. For the sum of 10 million. kr, it is lower than the government proposed. We proposed $15 million. kr. What I can answer for is that the transition has come about. 40 new organizations over the years we've had it. It will certainly increase, precisely because this scheme must be dynamic and based on objective criteria. If organisations applying for grants are able to rely on the objective criteria, they will have an opportunity to participate in the scheme. This will certainly increase as the transitional regime has now changed and the amount is set at 10 million. kr. With a lower limit, more people will come in, but in terms of exact numbers, I hope you understand that it is difficult to say here, because the system is dynamic, and the number of organisations will change along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1164	The representative of Svein Harberg has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1169	I would like to thank you for the debate. It's an exciting and challenging debate, and the speeches have shown that. I think Arild Grande got into it well in his last post – yes, there are simply political dividing lines here. Here some people believe that a decision at Stortinget changes the behaviour of the Norwegian people – those who play games that are outside our borders – a belief in the fact that only the state and a state company will follow laws and regulations and can be a well-functioning system for the future, while some of us are willing to look at alternative solutions. And not least, someone believes in the fact that there is only one state model that will secure income in the future. That's where the story might show us something completely different. But, as I said, I thank you for the debate. We'll probably get back to it, either one likes it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1176	We don't think people change behavior just because we make a decision here, but we're pretty clear that we have a belief that if the Stortinget actually makes a decision that we want to prevent advertising of illegal games, it will have an impact on the market. We believe that if the Storting had been willing to vote in favour of the proposal that would provide the Lottery Authority with better tools to prevent transactions, it would have affected the market. We have made a number of proposals here that would have helped to ensure that the addicts had better protection, that we have regulated this market, and that we have limited access to illegal games. But it refuses to be on the right-hand side. There is evidence that here we have a government with a parliamentary basis from the Left that wants a completely different model, and that was the whole government period started with, that we wanted to open up more licences to foreign games, and that we do not want to do anything to protect the addicts and to prevent the illegal games on the market. There the government has had to retreat in this particular case with licenses, while the basic attitude has been expressed from this pulpit, from Kårstein Eidem Løvaas, from Anders Anundsen and from the Left, which indicates that they want a completely different model inside. Then I don't feel sure that predictability is guaranteed for volunteering, and that's a question that should worry everyone, regardless of what view you have on the keys and the model that is now being adopted. So we haven't registered that the government has no answer to what a decrease of 10 million. kr will mean in relation to the number of organisations and how it will affect the grant to the organisations in the scheme. Then I believe it is quite irresponsible that the Storting should, above the table, adopt a major change in the grant scheme without any reflection on, or investigation into, the consequences of it. Taking that into account, we cannot support it, even though it might in itself be interesting to see whether it would have helped more people to get to it, but we cannot risk that there will be further unforeseeability for the organisations to be allocated funds from the surplus. With this, I would like to thank you for a debate that clearly clarifies the lines of Norwegian policy, where we have a government that is not willing to take on their responsibility on behalf of those who depend on the game and on behalf of the game model that ensures revenue for volunteering in the future. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1187	In my weakest moments, I wish the world were as black and white as the representative of Grande expressed it. I am almost surprised that we from the national pulpit in Stortinget have such a dogmatic characterisation and characterisation in a political area that is so complex that the Grandes party itself has changed its position. I don't think it speaks for the sake of politics that in such an area where in fact very much literally is at stake, the pulpit uses to make dogmas about those who think something other than what you are doing. There has been a rather reflective debate in very many areas, but it has also been very clear that the Workers' Party and the Centre in particular have argued that there is only one solution to all problems forever. All experience shows the opposite. But that experience also shows that very often it is we, as politicians, who are perhaps most backward from seeing the new solutions and challenges. I think we should notice that it is still a former government party, SV, that stands for the distribution model that the Workers' Party and the Center Party stood for earlier. I think it's worth noting that in a line change earlier today, the representative Arnstad was asked about what has changed from the model election that the red-green government laid down in the budget, which we were referred to from the pulpit, to today. And the representative replied that there was a message that was based on the position of the former government, and then it was clearly necessary to turn the centre party and the working party upside down. I am very pleased that the majority in this Chamber today are landing on the right side, and I am also pleased that very much of the debate has shown how important it is to have a somewhat sober approach to a complex issue that affects many in the future. It's not that there's one solution that's permanent the very best for everyone. That should at least have shown us experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1196	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1212	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1221	In August 2013, the Stoltenberg II government set up the so-called Basic Committee, which was tasked with monitoring the status, quality, link to the labour market, skills needs and interaction with higher education. The NOU called Fagskolan – an attractive choice of education came in December 2014 and two years later came Melding. St. 9 for 2016-2017, Professionals for the future, which we now have for treatment. The work on the message has been extensive, and many have shown great interest in the matter. On 19 January, a hearing was held in which 29 organisations made good representations and comments. In addition, the Committee and the undersigned have received a number of written contributions from, inter alia: counties and public and private vocational schools. There have been a number of special meetings with the different parties, so all aspects of the case have been well-lit and evaluated, and it is reflected in the position promoted in the Stortinget. In general, the message is very good and most of the 48 proposals have been supported by the Committee. I'm not going to go through everybody, but let me mention that we've been involved in the vocational school place in the education system, the management of the vocational school sector, the importance of the schools' association with the working life, financing, administrative responsibility, ownership and student status and the way through education. Some suggestions have received more attention than others — one is the discussion of study credits versus subject school credits. There's been a lot of input and a lot of commitment here. The Committee has noted that vocational school credits are little known and recognised among students and in the workplace. Many believe that the introduction of credits could increase the attractiveness and status of the vocational school. A unanimous committee supports the government's proposal to change the subject-school score to the study score, as described in the message. There has also been a strong interest in the government's proposal to evaluate the reform after a maximum of five years. The Committee agrees with those who believe that this is too long and therefore asks the government to carry out a mid-term evaluation after three years and a full evaluation after five years. It is important to know as quickly as possible about the impact of the responses in the message and whether they work. If not, other measures need to be considered in order to obtain the impact of the reform that one will have. The Committee is concerned that vocational education and training should provide a solidly higher vocational education based on the needs of the labour market and that it should be based on formal tripartite cooperation. Therefore, it is proposed that we ask the government to ensure that the vocational school students and the social partners are included in the dialogue meetings and other relevant arenas with the regions and the vocational school sector. That's good. It is just so sad that it is only the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV who believe that the social partners should also be represented in the boards of vocational schools. The Committee considers that the government's proposal to call vocational education and training for higher vocational education is somewhat inexhaustible and believes that it should be called higher vocational education and training. The majority of the Committee does not support the government's proposal to enable universities and universities to pursue vocational education unless this is organised through binding cooperation agreements between a specialised school and a university or higher education institution, inter alia. because this could mean that the vocational schools lose something of their own kind, and there will be a danger that the education will be academia. In the message, the government itself expresses concern about the academic operation of vocational education, but nevertheless the Right Party and the Advance Party will open this up. I'm not sure what the Left really means, but I expect them to explain it. The Committee welcomes the government's proposal for funding and that the grant for vocational education should be a earmarked grant to the state budget counties. Many had probably wanted the schools to have the state as their owner, but that matter was decided by the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Center Party and SV when the Stortinge dealt with Report. No. 22 for 2015–2016 last year. The last point I want to mention in this article is the requirement of real competence. With the exception of the Centre Party, the Committee supports the Government's proposal to introduce an age limit of 23 for admission. The majority believe that it is important that the vocational schools actually become a higher vocational education which is at a level of secondary education. The vocational schools will now have the same system as in the university and higher education sectors, but the Committee believes that exceptions should be made for arts schools, as in the higher education admission regulation. It is a little strange because it is only the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party that promote proposals to this effect. I am promoting the proposals on which the Labour Party is involved in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1244	The representative, Tone Merete Sønsterud, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1249	Today we add a new chapter to the educational history of our country, as I see it. Over the past 30 to 40 years, we have had a staggering increase in the number of students at our universities and colleges. A higher level of education has been a great asset to our society and community. There's a lot of investment to raise the university and higher education sector, and that's good. But eager to do so, we have far overlooked the potential of professional and vocational education. This is what the colleges have done a little under. We have not invested enough in the educational opportunities of young people who have sought training on the premises of the professions. Today, we are turning that trend around with the government's announcement about the vocational schools. We have an industry and a working life that is changing. This requires skilled workers who are both teachable and adaptable. We need skilled workers who have the competence to meet tomorrow's challenges in industrial and industrial activities both to land and to water, and not least in an international mission and job setting. There has been a lot of experience of a skilled worker in my part of the country. For this reason, I am pleased that the Minister of Knowledge with this big message facilitates the possibility for Norway to finally develop a higher professional study offer on its own premises. This was also the review melody when we had a hearing on this big message. A good example of this is the Association of Management and Technology, in LO, which gave this characteristic: ‘This is a policy that facilitates making the vocational school the alternative higher education that it deserves to be referred to as. A first step towards recognising experience-based competence as equivalent academic. Policies that enable people to make choices more freely and move towards building a broader and better education system, which provides opportunities for the development of skills for more people.’ The signals now given by the Minister of Knowledge about increasing the focus on quality in this education will help to increase the recruitment base and build pride and self-confidence among the college students and those who go out to work with this professional ballast. For this reason, it has been important that post-secondary students are granted student rights, the ability to influence their own studies, and access to well-being goods and relationships such as other students. There is no reason for these courses to be subject to no quality requirements as in the higher education sector, as long as this is done with respect for the specific nature of the professions. Here you need both a quality and a quantity lift, but without the focus on quality first, it makes little sense to bet on volume. When two out of three vocational school teachers lack pedagogical education, yes, it obviously affects the quality of education. I am pleased that this message facilitates better management of the technical school sector, with new guidelines for representation in the boards both from the local working life and from the students. If the vocational training effort is to succeed, the regional industry must be involved in the education and field of activity of the vocational schools much stronger than today, and the vocational schools must be relevant and forward-looking. It's the unique opportunity of colleges. Among the almost 50 measures proposed in this message is the quality focus, access to student relationships, funding and grant changes among the most important. The same applies to arrangements to increase predictability in the transition from post-secondary education to higher education, and vice versa. It now also opens up a three-year vocational education course where it is needed for the specific nature of the subject area. I am both proud and happy that there is a blue government that has opened up a higher professional course of study, and that we finally managed to get equal designation of the student's currency in terms of study credits, in the college as in the academy. It is a great victory for the recognition of professionals and for a minister of knowledge who shows a willingness to invest in quality throughout the education cycle.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1273	It is high time that the vocational education sector was lifted and that vocational education was given the status it deserves as a higher professional education. It contributes to this message. We can certainly conclude that the vocational schools and higher education have been treated in a vote for many years, not only in terms of funding, but also in terms of placement in the education system and the extent to which public, political and administrative involvement in the development of the school type has been involved. We in the Progress Party are therefore pleased that the notification is as offensive and concrete as it is. The Communication proposes a total of 48 measures for the vocational education sector, which are based on government's main objectives for vocational education. Vocational education messages, such as: is based on the investigation of the Primary Committee, addresses the competence of the professional community, the cooperation of specialised schools with the labour market and the organisation of the sector. The many measures proposed will help to improve the quality of education and the financing of vocational education and training, as well as the management system and links between vocational schools and the labour market. It is important that vocational education is made visible in the same way as university and higher education, and the Progress Party is therefore satisfied with the proposals to introduce a national admission system for vocational education and to make admission to vocational education visible on the same website as coordinated admission to universities and higher education. We will also draw up the proposal to give the vocational schools the right to be associated with one another. This will give students access to student housing and welfare goods in the same way as students at universities and colleges. A post-school lift is something the Advance Party has been working for a long time. For the Progress Party, it is very important to insist that a good vocational education, with a bachelor's letter, a master's letter, is as good education as a bachelor's degree or a master's degree from a university or university. It is of great importance that the vocational schools now both make themselves visible and become visible as a well integrated part of an integrated education system. Here, the Progress Party will particularly stress the great responsibility of the counties/regions to ensure that the vocational schools become more well-known, both for the student population and for working life. The Progress Party is pleased that the Government in the Communication meets both the needs of the labour market for relevant competences and the needs of students for a qualitatively strong higher-level vocational education as an alternative to a purely academic education. What we have been very concerned about is good educational quality, and that vocational education should be well adapted to the needs of the labour market. The Progress Party wants more people to choose vocational education in the years ahead. It will contribute to increased value creation and benefit both business and key areas such as health and care. One of the reasons we have spent a long time dealing with this message is that we have a great deal of respect for vocational training and therefore have been very involved in the input from the parties involved. One of the details of which there were many different opinions was whether it should be called ‘school score’ or ‘school score’. Here we chose to listen to the vocational school students and therefore the country at ‘study points’. This is a small but important detail of the good work this Communication does in order to achieve simpler and more flexible transition arrangements between relevant post-secondary school studies and university and university studies. The vocational schools are primarily going to train good candidates who can go straight into value-creating work, but I would like to stress that it is positive that those who want to continue their education at universities and colleges can now make it easier. Vocational education offers a wide range of freedom of choice and opportunities to get to work quickly, but it also broadens the scope for those who want to deepen in specific disciplines. The transitions between post-secondary and relevant higher education and university education are becoming simpler and more flexible, which is a major benefit both for individual students and for working life. The measures in the notification of the vocational school will improve the capacity of the vocational schools to develop the quality and supply of education. It will help to make vocational schools more recognised and visible as a vocational alternative to other higher education, while at the same time ensuring business the skills they need. It is important to remember that a master's or a graduate's letter is as much worth as a master's degree, and now the conditions are better suited for getting more value-creating professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1307	Some have already been said in the debate on the importance of vocational schools, and it is important to give vocational schools a boost. I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus on this. I think it was interesting to read the NOU that was presented in autumn 2014 and the diagnosis that was made in the vocational school sector there, that «patient is absolutely upright, but not completely healthy». So the vocational school sector has an unsolved potential, and that's the potential we now have to be able to redeem. And to do that, there are several things that need to be done. We have to make the colleges a more interesting alternative for the students. We need to make clear demands that will help to ensure and improve the quality of vocational education. We must ensure that vocational education meets the skills needs of the labour market, and we must ensure sound and predictable funding. At all of these points, we are now taking important steps. I am pleased that a joint committee is in favour of replacing the name «school credits» by «school credits» and I am pleased that the vocational schools now also have the right to be associated with a student relationship and that there are a majority in the committee in favour of this being applicable irrespective of the size of the school. Then it is an important recognition of the vocational schools that we are now introducing two credits for vocational education when admission to university and higher education. In terms of funding and ownership, I believe that the government has set up a sensible model. But for this to work, it is absolutely essential that the county councils, and after each region, take their responsibility seriously. State policies need to provide an overview of the skills needs of their region and ensure that the study offer is dimensioned in a way that meets this need. Then it is essential that the grant is also at a level that is proportionate to the real costs in the vocational education sector. I believe that it is also an important principle to ensure a level playing field for private and public vocational schools when allocating these grants. So both the staging message and the setting say some thing about the need for an education system without blindways. It is important, but at the same time it is important for me to stress that a vocational education is a full-time education, and that there should not be a goal of going on as far as possible from colleges to colleges and colleges later on. Vocational schools have strengths and advantages that universities and universities do not have. They play a different role, they meet a different need. I believe that it is the specialist schools that are the best ones to conduct vocational education, although we also have some institutions that have gradually gained solid experience both in higher education and in vocational education. But I think it's a bad idea to make it easier for universities and colleges to set up college studies. What I fear first of all is that it will lead to the academic academia of the technical school sector if institutions that have a academic culture and tradition are also to be influenced by this kind of school in the future. Finally, I would like to stress that when we now raise the vocational schools, we do so because society needs the skills that the vocational schools contribute to. But in order for us to get more people to choose to take a professional education, we have to do more than just lift the colleges. Then we also have to raise the professions in high school, and here the cooperation parties at Stortinget have done a part in the period we are all at the brink of now, not least when it comes to increasing the apprentice's grant. But I think we need to do more – I think that the apprenticeship grant should be further increased so that it comes to a level with the cost of school education. So I have noticed that the Minister of Knowledge will not promise to participate in such a promise, but that the head of the Right Programme Committee thought it was a good idea. So I would recommend Minister of Knowledge Torbjørn Røe Isaksen to have a good talk with the man who led the Right Programme Committee, and then I am absolutely sure that you will find out that you have a lot in common, and that you have many common goals for the professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1329	Let me start by saying that it is high time that the vocational education message was dealt with. The Council of State has, as it is well known, proclaimed that ‘this is the year of the vocational school this year’, already for several years, so that in the process it has to be realized that it has not yet become the year of the vocational school. So, at the burgeoning time, it was finally the time of the college. If 2017 in practice becomes the academic year, it is too early to say – it depends on the follow-up, but if the message is late, then I want to give praise to them from the government parties who have worked on this. I understand that there have been some strong internal discussions. In general, the Center Party believes that the message is a good follow-up to the NOU that came three years ago. The Centre Party has been a champion of the position of practical and aesthetic subjects and professionals in school for many years. So far back as in the 1990s, the Center Party fought for the colleges to be strengthened and not included in colleges, as it was talking about that time. The decision today clarifies the vocational schools as 'higher vocational education' and a complementary offer for university and higher education. The hope is that today’s youth, and adults who are already established in the labour market, see the potential of vocational schools for continuing education and up-to-date competence. The central statistical agency's projections suggest that we risk having a deficit of about 134 000 skilled workers in 2030. Today it is only approx. A total of 15 000 students who have chosen a specialised school in Norway. By comparison, there are about 250,000 students at universities and colleges. It is high time to raise the opportunities of a vocational alternative to higher education. Not least, this is important in the wake of the large-scale merger of the country's higher education institutions that we have witnessed. The structural reform of the UH sector includes the fact that key professional subjects are now subject to universities or are part of major higher education institutions. The centre party is a little concerned that this could lead to further academia of some professional subjects and go beyond the practical knowledge acquired, which is also absolutely necessary. Also in this future picture, the vocational schools can play an even more important role and perhaps take over some of the tasks of the higher education institutions in the past. For the Centre Party, vocational schools are very important – this is because they provide higher vocational education that directly meets the needs of the labour market and because they are developed in close cooperation with social and work life and can respond quickly and ensure the need for up-to-date and specialised skills such as employment demand. I come from the county that has the country's largest vocational school, the Fagskolan Inland, which is located in Gjøvik. The school has over 1,000 students, most of them on Campus Gjøvik, but also more decentralised study facilities in Uppland and other counties. The vocational school is well run and has a clear place in the education sector in Uppland. Elsewhere it's been like that. It's been a challenge for the colleges that their role has been unclear. In Uppland, the labour force has had ownership and knowledge of the possibilities offered by vocational education. It's been missing some of it in other counties. I hope that will change now, and that the state politicians take up education and make sure to give it the attention it needs to become a good alternative to university studies. At a time of rapid technological change, it is very important that education can change rapidly, be flexible and adapt to new trends and needs in the workplace. That is exactly what is the strength of the vocational schools if cooperation with the labour market is good. It is therefore very important that the labour market now has its eyes on this important education and values the competences of those who are trained there. The central party agrees with the government that the county councils will continue to be responsible for the financing of the vocational schools. We also agree with the proposed changes that give stronger rights to post-secondary students in line with students in other higher education. We believe, however, that students' rights should not depend on the size of the vocational school, and we therefore oppose the requirement that a vocational school should have more than 50 students to be part of the student relationship. One of the main discussions about the message has been about the education at the post-secondary schools should have credits or post-secondary school credits. While students at colleges and colleges get their grades, they don't do it in colleges. It may have been confusing for employers. I am pleased that the representatives of the government parties in the committee have worked for this, and that they have done away with the victor. The centre party believes a common name will be of benefit to the students and to the schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1350	Let me first start by thanking the case rapporteur for letting us through this message. There was a message we've been waiting for a long time, but when it came, at least I felt it was well received out there, both in business and among the students. So there's been a good job in the department in preparing the message. I feel that they have also been responsive to what is happening out there, the issues that are there, and the concerns that have been. Our vocational schools are an important type of school, it's an important education. One of the things that's so good with the colleges is that there's a huge breadth in the offer they're giving. We have everything from specialist schools with nail design to specialist schools with technical offshore etc., and that's exactly what makes this school team so good. I feel that in any case the vocational schools themselves are very concerned that when you have become a vocational school, when you have the NOCUT qualification, you have a stamp that the education you are offering is a good education. Whether it's in nail design, in health and care professions, or in technical offshore, what they come with is something they're proud of, it's an offer that's also well received in business. What distinguishes the vocational schools from other higher education is precisely the contact they have with the business community, and the ability to turn around quickly, the ability in dialogue with the labour market to adapt their study offerings so that they can be used in the industries to which these students are going. The biggest problem for the colleges, I think, is that they're not known enough. There are not enough people who are familiar with the offer they give, and how attractive one becomes after going to a college. Here, there's a great potential to make this school more familiar. Then there are many who believe that if a person chooses a profession, career development stops after one has taken the letter. It is as wrong as it may be, but it is a problem that too many people think it is a blind way to choose a profession and thus get a letter. One of the most important and most important debates in this matter has been this with study credits and post-school credits. It's important because it means a lot, and big because we've discussed it up and down and down, and it's also attached a lot of tension to it. I think it was wise for the government to fall on the study score, and it is noticed when the entire committee ends up on it. What a point of study is known to most people, while fewer are familiar with the term ‘vocational school score’. For those who attend colleges, I feel that this is about the status and recognition of the study they take, that it is called ‘study score’. It is also a problem – in practice – that it has been called ‘school credits’, because one may have well-educated and very well-adapted candidates who have vocational credits but in contact with foreign contracts, entrepreneurs, etc. who do not know about post-secondary school credits, they prefer a less qualified, academically trained student credits. Then we haven't achieved what we want, because here we have good professionals who can do the job, and who experience that they're being reset because they don't have their study credits to refer to. Then, of course, we're going to make it clear that it's not necessarily that because you have 10 math credits, you get an automatic exemption if you go to a college or a university. There is, of course, a need to make a concrete assessment of this. It's also important that we get the smooth transitions between college and university, because it's not like today that someone is educated, and then they're fully educated. Those who train today, they have to re-train their entire lives, they have to take more education, they have to adapt, etc., and then it's important that we have such a smooth system that one can go from one to another. And it's also made it clear. Finally, I would also like to make some comments about this with the student relations. Some colleges have students who go there, who do not need important welfare services, such as: Student housing, but other colleges have students who need such an offer. Then it is important that they can also relate to the relationships, so that they get the same offer as other students. In the end, it's up to the county councils to really raise the colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1379	The education sector in Norway has a major and fundamental challenge. While Norway is training more and more academics, vocational education has ended up in the backyard. There is a great need for more professionals in vocational education. SV's Minister of Knowledge, Kristin Halvorsen, therefore received a state report for the vocational schools, took several measures to provide a basis for further development and strengthening of the vocational schools, and, not least, she set up the Primary Committee to review the entire vocational school sector. We think it's taken too long to follow up that work, but I'm glad we're here now and can take an important step further for the technical school sector. We need to strengthen the vocational schools as higher vocational education, and we need to put in place more places of study. Vocational schools are experiencing an increased number of applicants. There are a record number of qualified applicants who have not received a place to study, both in private and public vocational schools. The projections of skills demand show that we are going to have a shortage of skilled workers estimated at a deficit of 134 000 in 2030, and therefore there is a need to significantly increase educational capacity in the years to come. SV therefore believes that an obliging stepping-up plan should be drawn up for post-secondary education places in order to increase educational capacity considerably compared to the student figures we have today. SV also calls for a better balance between professional and academic competence. Once vocational education and training has been too low over time, we again see it through imbalances, especially at higher levels, which of course has something to say for search. I guess 30 pst. has university and higher education, it is only 1.4 pst. of the population having specialised schools. Vocational training shall be the equivalent of university and higher education. Neither can the bias we see in society's efforts today be maintained. Our goal is to develop the vocational schools for colleges. Today, there are 40 county vocational schools with 7,300 registered post-school students in the spring of 2016. If we are to achieve a better balance between academic and vocational higher education, we must recognise experience-based higher education as equivalent to research-based higher education. The recognition of higher education institutions as part of higher education in Norway will give vocational training the status it deserves. In order for us to continue in the development of state colleges, we will bring forward the following main point in the end: First, according to established criteria, municipal vocational schools must have a system of attendance at colleges of higher education. The government wants to wait until the evaluation of the vocational schools is completed in 2022, before they assess this. It is six to seven years to wait for an evaluation and to postpone the necessary further development of the vocational school sector. Secondly, two-year vocational education must be given the opportunity to be assessed on what is called level 6 in the qualification framework, following a learning outcomes description that preserves the characteristics of the vocational schools. Here the government proposes no assessment or adjustment of the location of post-secondary schools. The introduction of the Qualification Framework in 2011 stated that it should be evaluated and, where appropriate, adjusted by 2017. This work must therefore be carried out as soon as possible by the Ministry of Knowledge. Finally, SV wants to strengthen the master letter system. It is an important tool to ensure the needs of businesses for master’s skills in the future. It is a system that meets the needs of society for an adapted and good leadership and institutional skills, and it contributes to a serious working life. The organisation of the master letter subject is a strength for the development of the system and for the labour market by the fact that the parties are the ones who define the master qualification and curricula through their proximity to the labour market. It's an important day. We'll get a little bit further. I wish that the various proposals on which the red-green parties, SV and the Workers' Party, were united, had also received a majority today. Then we had come a significant step further. Now it will take another few years while the government evaluates and waits. Anyway, an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1401	Vocational training is as important as university education, and it has been the starting point for the work of the government with the vocational schools from the very first moment. There is no doubt that the vocational schools have been – over several years – treated in a vote in the Norwegian educational system. These include everything from political attention, how to place the offer on the market, how to talk about higher vocational education — an expression the committee uses, and which I think is also a great concept — how to treat students, and what kind of rights they have. In all these areas, there has been a consistent down-priority of practice in vocational schools. Let me just do one example. It's only now that we're changing the unfairness that you've got extra credit for, for example. higher education institutions in higher education but not awarded additional credits for taking a vocational school. It's quite right as mentioned here, that there's still a very small proportion of those who go to college, who go on to higher education. But if you're going to get extra credits for high school and not for college, then we've lived with it this year after year without it being done with anything. I am very pleased that a broad majority of the committee supports most of the measures proposed by the government. There are more than 50 measures in total. It is therefore crucial for the future's working life in a wide range of areas. We're going to need at least 100,000 extra skilled workers in 2035 with the ones we're training today. Building up a higher vocational education, which is a good, full alternative, and which delivers the skills we need, is crucial. Again: Vocational training is as important as university education. What do we see have been the problems in the technical school sector? Well, we're struggling with recruitment, we're struggling with the fact that too few applicants for vocational education, we're struggling with the students having other rights, and we also see that the quality of education may not have been as good as it should have been, among other things. because two out of three vocational teachers lack pedagogical education. We are going to do something about this, both by amending laws and regulations, by strengthening the vocational schools in the budgets, and not least by clearly connecting the vocational schools with the rest of the vocational training. To ensure that there is no doubt about it: this is also part of the government's professional profession. It is related to everything we do in high school for apprentices as well as to strengthening the skills of students in Norway. We've already started. In the 2017 state budget, about 68 million were put off. DKK to strengthen the vocational education sector and 35 million. kr to an application-based grant scheme for specialised schools. And as I've said several times, this is not the end of a bet in the colleges – it's the beginning. We also introduce a new funding scheme for the vocational schools that will give them some of the same incentives in their system as universities and colleges do. There are more than 50 measures in this Communication. There are measures to improve the quality of vocational education. There are measures to strengthen students’ rights and representation. There are measures to improve the management of vocational schools. There are measures to integrate the vocational schools into the schemes we have, for example: Coordinate recording. And there are clear and clear measures to make vocational school education more prestigious and more familiar, for example. by saying that it is called study credits regardless of whether it is from college or university — everyone understands that there are two different types of institutions, and we live well with that — but also by trying to break down some of the barriers that unfortunately exist between universities and colleges today. I would like to say that even though universities and colleges should have a high degree of autonomy and autonomy and be allowed to decide for themselves, it is a right to evaluate the study offer from before when applying for admission to higher education. And for the very few, it is important that a clear and clear signal be given to universities and colleges that there is no need to be arrogant, but also, as we suggest, to build more partnerships between colleges and colleges, so that those who want it – it will never be the majority, and it should not be – get the opportunity to go to university and college more easily. There are also several individual elements in the Committee that I could comment on. Unfortunately, this is not the time, but I believe that the majority proposals in the vote are good proposals with which we live well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1418	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1423	Vocational education students have rightly been concerned with recognition and status, but also with student welfare. Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party write in a note that the proposal to grant vocational schools the right to be associated with a relationship ‘will provide students with access to student housing and well-being in line with students at universities and colleges’. But they don't want to give all the college students this opportunity, as the representative Sandaune said in his post. On the other hand, the majority in this Chamber will do so, and the Labour Party is pleased. The NOCUT study barometer in the UH sector is a good indicator of how students perceive the relevance and quality of education in the study programmes they follow. Now the Committee supports the government's proposal to carry out regular post-secondary studies in the field of vocational education, but a vocational education usually lasts for two years, and for this to be relevant and up-to-date, would it not be wise to conduct a post-secondary vocational education examination every two years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1432	For the first problem: the really big thing about this is that the colleges now have an opportunity to become part of student relationships. But then there's also an assessment, because what we've been worried about -- and the balance we tried to find -- was that if there's too many small colleges that connect, it might be more difficult for the relationships simply to make a good offer for all the students. I live very well with the decision that the majority has taken, and of course we shall follow it up. What I want to warn you, however, is to try to introduce some kind of duty for the vocational schools to be involved in a relationship. It has, for example, nor private colleges. Of course, we're going to evaluate it too, since the majority are asking us to do it, but I'll probably be a little bit more sceptical about it. In the case of the candidate survey – I can be pragmatic considering how often it is also carried out – there is no reason to believe that you will have very wide fluctuations. That's why I don't think it's necessary to implement it every two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1439	Another area: As said in the debate, we will lack 134 000 skilled workers in 2030. For this reason, the Workers' Party has for several years proposed a stepping-up plan towards 1 000 post-school places over a three-year period. For us, the main goal is that more people carry out a vocational school education, and one should think that the government agrees with that, because the message stresses several times the need for more skilled workers, as the Council of State also said in its contribution. However, there are no concrete plans or measures to increase educational capacity and to enable the sector to respond to the increased need for skilled workers. The message is called Professionals for the future, but it is not added to more professionals in the future. Therefore, the red-greens promote a proposal in which we ask the government to come back with an obliging escalation plan for post-secondary education places. What does the Council of State think of that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1446	I believe that this vocational education message delivers exactly what it says, namely, professionals for the future. It is quite right that there is not a detailed plan of escalation here, but we clearly say that the vocational schools are important – they should have a more important position – and that we need more skilled workers with higher vocational education than today. But that is something that needs to be done in the next budgets, i.e. in the annual budgets. That's also how, as far as I remember, the previous government operated on the subject schools. So I would like to say that it is already in our budgets that the majority parties in this Great Britain have adopted, a significant strengthening of the vocational schools. 70 million. kr is in this year, among others. Thirty-five million. for quality measures in specialised schools. It's not money that comes just as promises. It is concrete money that the majority – the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left – have granted, and that is currently out in the vocational school sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1455	I would like to express my pleasure at the fact that the committee has finally come as far as now. Then I will certainly get a very practical question from those with whom I am talking about vocational school. Will the study score apply to those who are graduates this year, or will the study score apply to those who are graduates next year, but who may have started the year before?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1460	It's such a concrete question – and it would be so stupid for those who are in that situation right now if I were to answer it unexplainedly – that I would ask you to answer it in a written question, as I would like to do. But since I'm not 100 pst. Sure, I don't want to say something that suddenly some students or students catch up, and that turns out to be unpresist, as we tend to say in politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1465	I'm sure what the Council of State says is going to get caught. Since there are students in the gallery, it's important to be precise. The representative of Tingelstad Wøien was formerly in the Inland Trade School, which – in a way – has gathered and has 1,000 students, and is an example of follow-up for more. There are many advantages and disadvantages, and one of the advantages is that the responsibility for the vocational schools lies with the county council, or the “regions”, which it is now called, is that they are close. It's easy to turn around, it's good dialogue with business. You can operate differently than if you're part of a big, heavy state institution. The disadvantage of that is that we lose some control with it from here, compared to what we could have had if they were state-owned. We see that the subject schools are organized in very different ways. Some have it as the Inland School, while others are in the basement of a high school, with a principal who is the headmaster of the college as well. My question to the Council of State is: How does he feel that the county council can also help raise the vocational schools to the level they deserve to be at?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1474	Many counties are quite good at following up their colleges. They may be particularly good at giving more money than the politicians here in Oslo do. The vocational school Inland is a very good example of the driving force that is in large parts of the vocational school environment. That's great, what the Inland School has done. We are also talking in this message about a kind of structural process, but I think it is a bad idea to leave the vocational schools to the state, simply because I think we are at risk of losing the very close, close link to the regional working life that the vocational schools should have. That doesn't mean I don't see any advantage over larger units even in the field of post-secondary education. But our reasoning and the reason why we're not just running on – it hasn't been lacking in action when it comes to structural reforms in this government – is simply that it would make sense to implement some of these changes first, and then possibly look at how the structural needs are. But that won't mean state takeover.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1481	I have to go back to this with professionals for the future, because the situation is that we have record-breaking qualified applicants without a place. Then it seems very strange to call the message Professionals for the future, stand here and talk about that we need 100,000 more than we're training today, and have nothing to do with how we're going to get more. So I'm going to continue where the Council of State left off. It is a fact that, although a wide range of measures are coming — and many good measures are being adopted today — there is very little to meet the need for increased capacity. This council doesn't provide more places for those who need it. Why are the red-green parties alone proposing the escalation plan that is needed? Why does the government stand without a reply?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1489	This whole message is an answer to that. It is not the case that only more places of study or more places of vocational education are the answer. Higher quality is the answer, inclusion in the Coordinated Recording is the answer, marketing vocational education better is the answer – all together. In order not to talk about a new funding system, where you are rewarded much more for getting vocational school students through – that is also the answer. All of this helps to lift up explicitly, because we want more people to apply to colleges. I am not against the fact that we are also going to assign more post-secondary places, but it is absolutely right that we have not made an obliging progress plan in this message for the next ten years. And you also had to look at that atrociously long after under the previous government. Now it's starting to be so long ago that I guess we can't dwell on what happened over the eight years. However, there is a more offensive policy for higher vocational education and training in Norway than it has been, at least for decades, in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1496	Then I tried again and should not be as specific as I was before. But I would like to ask the Council of State to be a little bit more general and also focus on this with recruitment, as it was talked about instead. The measures in the message today are obviously something that is done because one wants to recruit more, but also comes, as we also point to in other higher education, how one should cooperate with the labour market. What is stated in the message is that working with the labour market has not been good enough, and that the working life itself is not well familiar with it. We can say that it's the county council's job to get students to this education, but it's also obviously a big task for the working life itself. Can the Council of State share its thoughts with the Committee and the Stortinget on what he thinks he needs to do in order for the labour force to understand the education that is actually being given through the vocational schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1501	First of all, I think that a lot of colleges are examples of follow-up, for example. for colleges and universities in relation to just cooperation with the labour market. It is also in the nature of vocational schools that they often have shorter education courses, closely linked to the demand for employment, and thus have close contact with the labour market. But then, as we say in the message, it can be even better. An important step to achieve this is, among other things: changing the composition of the board, so that you get a board that is even better than today to ensure that the vocational schools have a good cooperation with the labour market and are able to respond to the needs of the labour market. So I just want to touch on one thing that's been up here, but that's not what was asked, and there's also some of the discussion about building up a kind of 'fachhochschule', which it's called in Germany, i.e. college in Norway. I'm positive about it, but you just have to be careful that you don't destroy the peculiarities of colleges in that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1508	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1515	It's great to hear everyone who supports the colleges here today. There are good arguments from all parties, and both government and greatness are very clear that this is a very important education. It's also a unique signal that everyone who's friends of the colleges, and who has something to do with the colleges, should pick up. So it's likely to say that it's a happy day for all those who are engaged in colleges. But – that’s a but, I should have said, and that’s that there’s no sign that this school team will get some increase in volume, which has been up in the line change. In my opinion, there is no good answer from the Council of State on why it is. At a time of high unemployment, and especially among young people, the government rejects the proposal of the Centre Party, the SVs and the Workers' Party for a stepping-up plan for several places of study at the vocational schools. And remember, there has not been a single new place of study for the vocational schools throughout the period of the Progress Party and the Right has fallen. They have also been quite greedy with study places otherwise in our opinion, even though there have been a few more there. But there are many young people who want and want and need to take education, and then we in the Workers' Party find it strange to experience that it is argued against more places of study, against more places of vocational education, instead of seeing that we need more people who take education. The Labour Party believes that a greater part of the educational growth in the years to come will come to the vocational schools, and we have proposed a total of 1000 new places in our alternative budgets. This has been downgraded. So even if the vocational education message has been named Professionals for the future, it is not added to more professionals in the future. We stress in the attitude of the vocational school report that society needs a great deal of the competence provided by the vocational schools, and many others do. That's why this escalation is important. It doesn't just keep pointing to quality, because we need more skilled workers. Then this is a school battle, and it is clearly important to expand the volume. Many of these schools don't have to deal with the big drop-out like that. takes place in higher education or in secondary education. These are very motivated students who get through, and we need more places, although of course quality is also important. The working party will not wait to know when we need the skills offered by the vocational schools. We have proposed this in our alternative budgets, and we will continue to propose it. Good words in spite: If this is to be realized with a bet in vocational schools for the future, it obviously has to be a government change for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1528	At the end of September last autumn, I attended the inauguration of Noroff’s new premises in the Mølleparken in Oslo. This post-secondary school is a privately owned educational institution with high ambitions on behalf of the students, and it is dedicated to digital media and digital knowledge. But how well-known is this educational offer for students facing the choice of post-secondary studies, hopefully? Unfortunately not very well known! The trade schools have been a well-kept secret in the education system, a pearl that we haven't been good enough to lift up. Too many students, parents, study counselors and employers do not know what this is. It's stupid, and that's why it's nice that we're doing something about this now. The message we're dealing with gives a solid education for the colleges, which consists of almost 100 different schools with very different subjects and directions. Through almost 50 different measures, we promise education in terms of quality, professional environment, student welfare, funding and governance. My hope is that these changes will take account of the specific nature of vocational schools as short, tertiary-level vocational education, while at the same time facilitating the most flexible and flexible courses of education between vocational and university education. We are constantly hearing that Norway needs highly skilled labour. And we do -- the prognosis tells us that we will lack almost 100,000 skilled workers in 2035. Professional schools are an incredibly important part of the higher education provision in the Norwegian education system because we need the skills they represent in the future in the labour market. Then we have to help young people who are faced with many tempting educational opportunities to make good, well-informed choices. One of the things we do in the message is to introduce a new recording system, where you will find the vocational school offerings in the Coordination of admissions as alternatives to university and higher education. Education is one of the main priorities of the Right, which is why we have a long list of measures taken by the government to strengthen education from kindergarten, throughout school and into higher education and research. We have strengthened the professions through increased grants to apprenticeships and several measures to bring about closer cooperation between school and working life. Norway has a better starting point than most other countries because almost half of those entering higher education choose a profession. Our challenge is that too few of these complete their education. Therefore, we take a number of steps to prevent apostasy, and that effort will be broad and start early in school. Back to the opening of Noroff vocational school last fall. It was optimism to trace in the mirage of students, teachers and business representatives. Digitalisation is high on everyone's agenda, and this specialised school has ambitions to contribute to the development of competences in the digital shift and to meet the knowledge needs identified for a digital Norway. This message is good news. For those who are young and will choose to study, I am not in doubt that the opportunities offered by the vocational schools are more than most people. That's why it's good that we're now raising the colleges up and down.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1543	In 2014, Councillor Røe Isaksen said that 2015 would be the year of the vocational school. It didn't happen. Then we were told that he meant 2016, but it was only in December 2016 that the message came, and now we really hope that 2017 will be the year of the vocational school. Travel here has been a strange sight to follow. Some representatives from the government parties have been high on the track talking about the state of vocational schools, despite the fact that they had decided, in the context of the regional notification, that they should remain in the counties. The advance party Little Harriet Sandaune hit the big drum in the class struggle last fall. In a familiar FrP style, she went to the head of the Workers' Party and told the readers – also in the familiar FrP-style – that no world thing had happened to the vocational schools for eight years with the red-green ones, despite the fact that a state report was produced for the vocational schools that was important to close knowledge gaps and increase the visibility of the vocational schools, as the representative Lysbakken said in his post. Candidate studies were started, the Norwegian Institute of Vocational Education came into being, the National Board of Colleges was established, and the Primary Committee, which established the basis for the message we are about to deal with, was set up. But she asked the representative Gahr Støre to quiet better prepared for the next hour. One might ask himself who it is that should follow in an hour. So, just before Christmas, the message came, and the committee was in the poll of the budget. Then the Right Party and the Advance Party found out that they could just as well start the treatment of the vocational school message there, which we thought was unfortunate for many reasons. It had e.g. was not consulted, but it was clearly not interesting for the government parties either. One of the points concluded that all the college students would be entitled to participate in student relations, but they do not want it that way today. As I said – we, in fact the majority, will, but it will be against the right and the right. But what might take the cake was when the representative Kristin Vinje at the Røjres national meeting said something about the fact that the Workers' Party was quite annoyed at the fact that there is a Right-Registration who made a post-school message with concrete actions that LO is cheering on. I can tell you from this pulpit: No, we were not – and are not – annoyed about it. We were annoyed that the government spent so long on the message. When it finally came, we said that it was essentially a good message. Then I can add: the working party will never get annoyed when LO cheers, on the contrary. I do not know myself in Vinje's description at all. It is possible that the Right is annoyed if someone other than themselves has a good case, but that is not how it works in the Workers' Party, and I can clarify: Today is a turning point for the vocational schools in Norway. We take a boost for the work force, for the business community and for the post-school students. Now, when the Stortinge recognizes the vocational schools as a higher vocational education, it's just to congratulate each other on it, even though there's a lot that remains before we're fully in the finish line.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1556	I've really been looking forward to this day, where we're going to adopt what might be the most important promise for vocational training in very many years. It is clear that there has been some disagreement, but one thing we can enjoy is the broad political upswing that has been given to the broad lines of this Communication in the committee reading – because the point of competence is becoming more important as society's progress and specialisation continue. Especially in Norway, with high standards of living and high wages compared to our trading partners and competitors, we need to be in the main about whether we are going to compete, win contracts, create values and secure income that will carry the welfare state in the future. When we come up with more than 50 measures and many important changes for higher vocational education – what we really should call the master’s education course – we are now laying an important foundation for vocational schools to finally take their legal and important place in the education cycle. I'm not going to go into all of these 50 measures, I don't have time for that, but study credits, better transitions and that, for example. opening up three-year courses in the vocational schools in the fully specialised practical training courses will be one of the exciting steps ahead of us here today, as well as everything about the well-being of students. We need more masters and masters. We also need those with traditional higher academic education to be able to fill with practical higher education offered by the vocational schools – and vice versa. We need this multi-disciplinary and complex competence in the future to ensure our competitiveness and to get more companies to flag all or part of their production back to Norway. The transitions between universities, colleges and colleges are important to facilitate. Today, we clearly set out the ambitions for this area, while recognising that a lot of work remains at the individual educational institution. It is important to ensure these internal professional links when developing further training and training courses for the future. At the same time, we need to recognise that the diversity of the vocational education sector extends so far within each school class — after many years of voice-based treatment — that we now need to use the resources and opportunities open up by these means of development to increase the quality of the vocational schools in the future. We need this more than before, because the Norwegian economy is in greater transition than in many, many years. We will meet more automation, robotization and other practical and advanced skills. Thus, the vocational schools can really come to their right in this vision of the future. I look forward to the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1569	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1587	I see you, President, and you see me. We see this beautiful hall, and we see the beautiful details in the big chandelier in front of us. We also see the Castle far over there. But everyone doesn't. About 180,000 Nordics have a weakened vision that is considered visually impaired, and more than 1,000 Nordics are completely blind. But the vision is far from everything. We don't need to see the chandelier or the castle to do a good job in here. But if I had been visually impaired or blind, I would have been dependent on organisation to do the job as a people-elected person – of course. Blind and visually impaired people need good organisation so that they can participate in all areas of society. Leather lines, glasses, letterbooks, dogs, pcs, escorts – yes, the measures are many. In the newspaper a while ago, we could read about the app that looks for the blind. The tools are many, and the technology is developing. We have to do our utmost to enable all those with different disabilities to participate in all areas of society. One of the most important arenas for participation is the school, our common school where students meet from different cultures with different assumptions and different backgrounds, a school that balances differences and helps to create understanding, respect and not least help everyone to have equal opportunities to exploit their potential to live different lives and contribute to society. It's a formidable task that requires a lot of society, of school and also of politicians. If you fall out of school, the chance of falling out of work is great. If you fall out of the community, there's a great chance that you'll feel on the sideline and outside. Although we have good thoughts and visions about our school and much works just after those visions, we know that there are some areas that we need to pay extra attention to. One of these areas is the training situation for the blind and partially sighted in school. Blind and partially sighted people are entitled to complete training in our common school. It requires organization, it requires competence, it requires resources, and it requires resources. The last first: aids. A study carried out a few years ago by the MMI of the Norwegian Blind Federation showed that eight out of ten students who rely on textbooks are getting books too late. I brought this matter up in the Questionnaire, and I used an example from the Council of State and my home country, Telemark. Remi, who was then nine years old and went to school at Witteseid in Telemark, had waited over eight months to get schoolbooks with a credit card — eight months of not being allowed to follow the same scheme as the others in the class, eight months of being in danger of going both outside and on the sidelines. Think yourself, President, that you and I had gone to the same school, in the same class, and I had all the textbooks from school, but you got them first around Easter. It's not fair. It's not acceptable. But fortunately, I have the impression that this has improved since the situation with Remi was taken up. That's good. We just have to make sure that it doesn't happen again. A year ago we were presented with a study from the Blind Alliance there 65 pst. by visually impaired children and young people indicate that they are being bullied. Almost everyone says that the bullying has taken place in the school yard. At the same time, almost half say the school hasn't done enough to solve the situation. In these days, Stortinget treats a new law to ensure that schools do more to detect and combat bullying. I hope the result of that treatment will be a reinforced law that will ensure that students' legal certainty is well maintained, while at the same time acting quickly when bullying is experienced. But paragraphs are not enough to include and ensure that students have it safely in school or experience themselves as part of a community. It does not help with the obligation of activity if one is not a natural part of the community of peers or is included in the daily learning environment and the social community of the class. Studies show that 40 pst. blind and partially sighted students have been exempted in one or more subjects. Norwegian sidings, maths, gyms, English and Norwegian main goals are the most common subjects for exemption. I ask myself, is exemption the best way to ensure optimal training? In some cases maybe, but the whole 40 pst., I think that works a lot. The same has been the case with regard to national samples. We have to make sure that we don't use easy solutions. Can we get this percentage down by everyone stretching a little bit longer, adapting the teaching a little bit more, offering a little bit more organization, yeah, then I think everyone will be earned that we're doing just that, stretching out a little bit longer. I also want to draw up the story that blind Isabel Engan shared in an interview for a while back. She remembers many fine days from high school, but she also remembers many difficult. She tells about how it feels when everyone around her suddenly breaks out in laughter, and that she knows that it is her they laugh, though she cannot see it. She says, ‘I remember people thought it was fun to remove my chair, for example. That was probably humorous, but I felt bored, and bullying. And on the other hand, "It was hard to find people in the spare minutes because I couldn't play ball games, and it wasn't as easy to run the last one. A lot of people just ran out in the spare minutes, and then I was left with the teacher." Isabel is a strong girl and chose to study special education. For a capacity within that field! She ends the interview by pointing to a solution. She thinks the way out of the problem is not to think of disabled students as different, but as a natural part of the class. I think so, too. I totally agree with her. But then we have to do just that, make sure that all students with different disabilities are fully trained, with good adaptation and organisation so that one can be as much of the class as possible and the community. This is why I end the interview by asking the Council of State the following questions: What will the Council of State do to ensure that the blind and the partially sighted receive the necessary arrangements and experience adequate training and a more inclusive school environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1619	Thank you very much to the representative Thinning Bjørnø for taking up an important interpellation, and I also think it is good that the impression is that as far as the availability of teaching materials for blind and partially sighted students is concerned, the situation has improved. But I think we can agree that, to say it very simple, it's not good enough until it's real equality for all students. That means you have the textbooks you're going to have at the right time. But it also shows that when things are dealt with on Stortinget, it actually gets an effect, and this now has Statped grip. Before I start answering questions and saying something about what I think we should do and a little bit about what we are doing, I also want to say that this is an area where I think we are politicians and I as the Council of State also have to be system critical. It's very easy that we, as politicians, especially when we're in position, go in and are so concerned with all the positive things that happen, that we also forget to be self-critical on behalf of the system we run, and this is an area where we also have to be self-critical. It also applies to me as the Council of State. Because even though it's a lot of good that's done, and although there's a lot of success stories out there, there's also too many who don't get the follow-up they need. I'm also going to talk a little bit about special education in my article. Mobbing is, of course, an important matter that Stortinget is currently working on. In all of these areas, we just haven't done enough, and there's too many students who feel they're going to fail. On March 21st, I invited you to a conference on inclusion and special pedagogy. It was not only for students who were blind or weak, but for different types of students with different needs for organisation, and an important part of it was simply to let students and parents themselves tell about how they experienced school life. One of the young people who was on the platform said something very wise: we have to teach people that differences are awfully normal. It is part of the challenge, that everyone – as the representative Thinning Bjørnø also describes – should feel like and be part of a community. At the same time, we understand that in order for everyone to have equal opportunities within the community, one must also treat people a little differently in a positive sense. People need a little different treatment and a little different follow-up to be equivalent parts of the community. In the school's purpose paragraphs and value documents, this is absolutely central. The school will meet all students with confidence, respect and demands – not least ‘requirements’, I stress here – providing them with challenges that promote education and learning and, of course, counter discrimination. In other words, the value document at school – and this also applies to new general and general aspects of the curriculum, which are now at the hearing – not only says that the school should combat discrimination, but also says that all students, regardless of their starting point, have the right to trust, respect and demands. In this context, it is also important to stress that expectations and demands are one of the many students with a need for organisation, who are particularly aware that they are not receiving. Not to be met with expectations – to be treated like what some students say: I felt treated as if I were stupid – is not doing these students a favor, it is doing them a great service to bear, and they notice it so intimately when school doesn't meet them with confidence that they can also learn, and expectation that they will learn. With regard to the more specific issues of the interpellant, first on bullying: there is no doubt that among some groups of children and young people, more are being bullied than among others — for example, due to disability, weakness or a lack of vision. This has been documented by several studies and is also specifically mentioned by the Djupedal Committee. Now the Storting treats important issues and important laws about bullying, but the government's bullying policy is about three things that are all equally important. Firstly, raising the level of competence in schools, kindergartens and municipalities, secondly, better support and guidance for bullying victims and their families, and thirdly, a simpler regulation to ensure both legal certainty for students and faster and better follow-up than today. But it is also – alongside this – about attitudes and values in school. It is simply about the fact that the fine words we have put down in the general part – or now the overall part – are actually followed in everyday life. The interpellant points to a very important theme, which I am also very concerned about, namely that many students with a visual impairment are taken out of the classroom and get an exemption in the trade. With regard to the school's obligation to adapt training, it is both a goal and a continuous process. Adapted training shall be provided through variation and adaptation to the diversity of the pupil group within the community. Schools shall take care of the professional and social development of pupils in the context of regular training, but in some cases special education and other specific measures may be necessary. Everyone in this room agrees that special education and exemption from subjects and activities may be important instruments for ensuring equivalent training for each student. But what we get reports of is that special education and exemption can sometimes act like the opposite. In the worst case, special education can be segregated and offer students a worse offer than they would otherwise have had if they were in the classroom and were trained there, or that exemption from the subject is not sensible – for example, now we have. for pupils with dyslexia, it has been necessary and appropriate to do so — but it is more likely that there is a signal that the system has given up and that expectations are low. We don't know exactly where the percentage exemption should be, but I agree with the representative Thinning Bjørnø that 40 pst. is a high number, and that, along with much of the other thing we know about special education and exemption, it may indicate that these schemes do not work well enough to provide students with better education or organized education, but rather work segregatedly. We have set up an expert group under the direction of Thomas Nordahl, who is just going to help us get even better both decision-making bases and policies for students who need organized pedagogical services. They have been given the task of viewing critically through not only the law, but also practices in the municipalities. For one thing is what we adopt here in the law, which is quite another, unfortunately sometimes, how it is actually followed up. Although this should be a fast-working group of experts, we don't have time or money to wait for their recommendations alone, we also have to work continuously on this in the municipalities. Let me just mention some of the other measures the government has also recently launched, for example. in Meld. St. 21 for 2016–2017, Lærlyst – early school efforts and quality, where we announced that we consider introducing requirements for schools in the early stages to have employees with specialist education and training, while considering the establishment of a further training offer in special education. The rationale for this is precisely that of pupils with special needs for organisation, e.g.: students who are weak or blind. In the case of organised learning material, the Directorate for Education has a grant scheme providing support for the development of specifically organised learning materials. In addition, Statped offers adapted versions of existing textbooks, and I agree that when feedback comes from Remi in Witteseid in Telemark, that it has taken eight months before learning material, it is not a sustainable situation. Statped has also had additional measures and specific measures for the 2016–2017 school year, from which they have also gained important experience, from which the goal is, of course, to provide pupils with time learning material. But then it's also important to say that most municipalities know early on which students they get. If the municipalities or schools are late in providing feedback or notifying Statped about their educational needs, it may also lead to delays. In other words, it is also important here that the municipalities do their job. We have also sent a proposal from the government to new common equality and discrimination laws, and in this law we want the universal design of ICT to apply also to the education and training sector. This means that in the future the school's websites, learning platforms and digital learning materials will be universally designed so that many more students and students can benefit from them than they do today. Of course, it will also help visually impaired students. To sum up very briefly, I think there's a lot of good work going on, but this isn't an area where I'm going to rest, it's not an area where I've been thinking about simply patting myself on my shoulder and saying that here we're doing a lot of good. This is an area where we still have a lot of work to do, and we're going to keep working on it with full strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1651	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The general theme of the interpellation and my previous article dealt in depth with different forms of inclusion, at school, in trades, in the community of peers, in the social environment, in the community environment, etc. People are different fortunately, but it's not good if the differences between people get too big. The same applies to coincidences, and I'm concerned that we should minimize coincidences like that. depends on where you live, the competences you can use, the resources you can use and the organisation you get. I am pleased that the Council of State stresses the importance of being self-critical and system critical in matters like these. I talked nothing about Statped in my previous post, but the Council of State talked a little about it. Statped is an important institution for blind and partially sighted students. They have a very important point competence in the disciplines, and they assist municipalities, schools, kindergartens, PP services, etc. with different types of services, both for individual livers and at system level, as discussed by the Council of State. It is in many ways Statped to facilitate and contribute to the allocation of resources and competences there to the best of its ability. As we all know, Statped has been through extensive reorganization in recent years, and the reorganisation is now being evaluated. I would like to emphasise the importance of adjusting the course and being system critical of the findings of that evaluation, and it is also important that users are included on advice. The Blind League has, among other things: called for a stronger link between Statped and the municipalities, and the Council of State was also concerned. They indicate that it takes too much time before Statped and the municipalities get in touch. Therefore, they want a requirement that every time a school in a municipality has a visually impaired student, Statped should be connected. They also want parents and superiors themselves to be able to seek help from Statped, and there is a call for warnings that the trade unions in Statped are being reduced, especially in Trondheim, but also in Oslo. What does the Council of State think about these things? And then I'm very happy that the Council of State is taking seriously this about exemption from the profession, because it's incredibly important that this is handled in a better way, both to ensure a school where everyone is included, and to make sure that, as far as possible, everyone has equal opportunities, for example. for further higher education. I see that a lot of people have drawn themselves, and I'm glad. It's not often that this group is being discussed in this room, and I'm coming back to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1664	The major reform of Statped, which was adopted and launched under the previous government, is to be evaluated, and I fully agree that it is important to be system-critical there as well. The idea behind this change was that Statped should – and this applies to all user groups – use fewer of its resources on offer, such as: the old state schools for hearing-impaired students or the kind of things, and be more out in the municipalities, work systemically and support the municipalities. That's a very good idea, and that's also why we've continued this work. I have even broken my own government statement regarding schools for the hearing impaired, because I believe that this has been the right way to think about it. But then it is absolutely essential that if that means that Statped becomes more distant from the municipality and the municipality does not have contact with Statped, we have a problem. That's why one of the things that's important is that Statped has so-called cooperation agreements – as far as I remember, it's called – with different municipalities, which are just agreements where you go into what the municipality needs, how the relationship between us and Statped should work. At a fast-growing pace, Statped has established more and more such cooperation agreements, and that is precisely the basis for Statped to enter and help municipalities with the type of system-based work. There are two important things – as Thinning Bjørnø mentions – where there are the biggest problems today. One concerns bullying, inclusion in the school environment. The other concerns the whole problem complex related to special education, exemption, the expectations we have for students with some form of organisation needs, visual impairment or anything else. There is good reason to believe that today’s system – with special education and everything it brings – does not work for very many students. There's good reason to think that for very many students, it doesn't just work segregatedly, by unfortunately still taking them out of ordinary classrooms and teaching them, but that the quality of the offer given to some students is simply worse than they could have had if the resources had been used in another way. The answer is not to abolish the right to special education – I think it is totally utopian and a bad idea, which provides a little less security for these students – but to carry out a rather tough, critical and honest review of whether we have built a system that gives us a good conscience, but that does not help the students who need it the most. And that's what I've given Thomas Nordahl and this selection of experts to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1677	I'm a politician and I believe in a policy that wants us to give everyone equal opportunities. Then it might not be so strange that I am part of the Workers' Party, where we have 'all to join' as slogans. There's another slogan too, which I want to mention, and that's that everyone is different. I also think that is a fine vision for Norwegian school, which would help many more than just blind students, which is the theme today. But then in case we have to ask the organizer of the big tourban day, which was out here a few days ago, because they had it as their vision, that we're all different. I experience that interpellant Thinning Bjørnø and Councillor Røe Isaksen can sign that this is a vision we could have in Norwegian school, namely that we should take care of everyone, and that it is very important that all children find their way around and experience the school as a good place to be and a good place to learn. That is a very good starting point for the debate. Several things have been raised, including: excepted in the case of special education. In my post, I want to talk a little bit about what the State Council said in its last post in three minutes, about how we're going to connect the student who's blind, to the specialists in Statped and their competence, who know a lot about how to learn and thrive as a blind, who can be something about being blind. I was with and treated the Midlyng Committee's report and the big message that came after that, and I would like to take part in a self-critical review, because I am not sure if we achieved the goal we had. The intention was to have a government agency that would be a resource for municipalities, but in the case of a good part of these students with special needs, there are so few of them — sometimes just a handful, maybe five to ten students in all of Norway who have a special syndrome or something like that — and there are also not many blind students in Norway. It's quite right, as they've already said, that you know that these kids are going to start school, and you know when they start school. Then it's completely unimaginable that it's not possible to be prepared for it on the first day of school, which is prepared for all the other kids who are coming. So the question is, were we doing the right thing when we reorganized Statped? Are we satisfied with that model in general? Has the offer to this group improved? I hear a little bit of both, to say it like that. I think it's rather despairing to meet children and young people who experience it as very difficult to be at school, who don't get the help they need, who experience bullying, and how their parents are despaired because they don't have any place to go where they get help, because they're referred to Statped in a municipality that then feels to be far away. Then it's like by our decision we have removed the students from the help they should have. This is very important to get an answer because it has a very significant impact on the individuals who are completely attuned to the competences of these professional communities. I think it is very commendable of the Council of State that he takes this seriously. I really feel that he does, but the question is what's going on. There are probably students and parents listening to us in this debate now, and what are we actually able to deliver that means a change for the six-year-old who is blind, who is going to start school in August? Do we know that the child is given the help he should have, no matter where in the country he lives? Then we don't have much time. We don't have time to wait. I'm very pleased that the representative Christian Thinning Bjørnø took up this important discussion, because it's part of the core of our school policy. We want to give a good offer to absolutely all students, and then we have to make the most of it so that everyone gets it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1692	Like both the Council of State and the representative of Aasen, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important question, and for giving us a thorough discussion also at the main hall on what measures we can now put in place quickly and in the longer term for blind and feeble students in Norwegian school. The representative of Aasen began his speech by saying that she was concerned about this because she was part of the Workers' Party, which has the slogan "All shall join". I'm also concerned about this. I am not a member of the Workers' Party, but a member of the Right, who has the slogan 'Poossibilities for All'. SV had for a long time the slogan ‘Various Humans, Equal Opportunities’. The Progress Party has ‘Most People’, and it can explain how it fits into the picture afterwards. My point is really this: there's no party political or block policy discussion about whether the school, as our main common arena, should be inclusive and give all students equal opportunities. The Blind Alliance, which is a good organisation, has provided a lot of information to all of us in the Church, Education and Research Committee on the challenges these students face daily. And for those of us who don't have the blind or the weak in a close family, it's discouraging to get information that a lot of students experience being segregated or treated differently, or that they feel more lonely than other students because of the way Norwegian school treats them. So there's a lot of work being done, as the Council of State was about to do. A lot has also been done, and I think many blind and feeble people also experience – it is important to say – a good offer in Norwegian school, and that they get the follow-up they are entitled to. But as long as someone falls outside, it's not good enough. One of the things we're doing right now is clarifying the law of bullying in school. The fact that all students are going to be comfortable at school, safe at school, and that no one is going to be left out is generally a very important goal for Norwegian school, which I feel is that the Stortinge agrees to a large extent. Here we also get a clearer law that will also take care of those students who have some special needs and make them feel included. Some of the things that may be the most alarming thing about special education are the big local differences. Some students are given the offer they get, where mother and father happen to settle. One of the things I think is most affordable with what this government has now presented is precisely more clear demands from national authorities that apply in all municipalities – regardless of who controls, how large the municipality is or where in the country it is located. In this way, we ensure that even if we have municipalities like school owners, who are to have their local adjustments and their way of looking at them, it is also to ensure that all students, wherever they live, are taken care of and followed up according to the needs they actually have. It's also about competence in school and the fact that we need special teachers in all schools, that we have the skills to know how to organize in the best possible way for those students who have special needs, without feeling like being discriminated against or otherwise excluded. You get stories and examples that students don't get their learning material when they're going to school. I think that's totally unsustainable. It is actually quite shocking that year after year we get this kind of feedback – all the time we have Statped, all the time the municipalities have a responsibility to provide organized education for everyone. In its extension, digital learning platforms are now increasingly being used. There is an opportunity to better organise, but it is also very important, when we are now to facilitate the use of such material more in school, that it is also universally adapted to all students, regardless of what challenges they may have in terms of learning. Finally, the Council of State was involved in this with being system-critical. Sometimes you make rules that are probably logical on a pult in a directorate, but that can get very unfortunate results. For example, one of the examples that the Blind Alliance has informed us about is that: that very many faint and blind people get taxis to and from school. But it's not allowed to bring a friend home from school in that taxi. This is something that is very easy to solve, a very small regulation, but that of course means a lot to the student who wants to bring a friend home, as the others can. So here's all the reason to praise the interpellant, and I look forward to the follow-up both from the government and the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1715	Unfortunately, there is little doubt that blind and partially sighted rights under the Training Act have been neglected for many years. The problems addressed in this interview are important. The progress party wants an inclusive society where everyone can participate in the same line. It shall not be the case that visually impaired students receive adapted learning materials long after the other pupils in the class. The Progress Party is pleased that the government is now addressing the problem. In new equality and discrimination laws, the government has made proposals to introduce universal ICT design requirements in education. If the Storting adopts the proposal, digital learning material in school will be available to all school students and students, regardless of their ability to function. The universal design of ICT becomes a requirement in the education and training sector means that websites, learning platforms and digital learning materials can be used by much more students and students. The universal design requirement can help more people through school and education and out in the workplace. Everyone has the right to education. The new design requirements provide equal access to learning content for schoolchildren and students. This also means that parents with disabilities can easily follow up their school days. In the field of the school environment, it is working specifically to address the problems, and we in the Progress Party are pleased about that. Over the years, we have been presented with studies showing high levels of bullying among children and adolescents, whether in disability, skin color, religion or sexual orientation, that they experience significantly more bullying than other students. This is not acceptable and it is important to turn it down. All children have the right to a safe and good school environment. Despite many measures and campaigns in the last 20 years, the number of students who say they are being bullied is still high. The Party considers this to be a sign that stronger lye is needed to deal with the problem. We are pleased that the government will clarify the laws to combat bullying in school and responsible adults working in school. It is proposed to introduce an activity obligation for schools to immediately knock down bullying and to improve guidance and support for pupils and parents. The bullying victims and their families shall have better follow-up and clear rights. The competence of school, kindergarten and municipality adults will be strengthened, which will benefit all students. The Government has set up an expert group for children and young people in need of specific organisation, which will deliver its report in one year’s time. The group consists of Scandinavian professionals and researchers in kindergarten and school and is led by Professor Thomas Nordahl. The overall objective of the expert group’s work is to help children and young people in need of organised action, including special education, to receive a special educational offer of high quality and to experience increased inclusion in kindergarten and school. The work of the Expert Group shall provide national and local authorities and actors with a basis for selecting the most appropriate and inclusive instruments and measures, and the Progress Party looks forward to the results here and for further concrete action to be taken. The study conducted by the Blind Alliance suggests that 40 pst. pupils with visual impairment have been exempted in one or more subjects, but this should not be the case. In the view of the Progress Party, this does not fulfill our desire to be included in the school. In dialogue with the Blind Alliance, it is shown that more schools do not have sufficient mobilising skills and lack of teaching skills, and that this may be the reason why schools grant exemptions to students. The blindfold also reports that municipalities often do not know what skills they have, or need. Today it is up to the individual municipality to connect Statped, then to acquire the competence. This means that it takes a long time for students to receive training for visually impaired students. The Progress Party expects this expert group to carefully assess whether there is a need for Statped, for example: in the Training Act, need to be given a clearer mandate to assist municipalities with the organisation of visually impaired pupils in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1740	The representative Asheim gave us a review of the slogans of the various parties. He did not mention the Christian People's Party. Our slogan is 'Human World in the Centre', and it also fits very well into this debate. The Progress Party, as Asheim said, has 'For the most people'. We considered for a while whether we should use the slogan ‘Not just for the most people’, which would also fit well into this debate, but we stand on ‘Human World in the Centre’. In any case, it is not the terms of the stroke it depends on in this case. These are the concrete measures and the concrete solutions. I do not doubt that the representatives of the Progress Party also have a genuine commitment to this matter. It's important that we manage to create a school that's inclusive of everyone. It is important that everyone is given the appropriate training they need and that they need, and it is important that everyone is included in the social environment at school. As has been mentioned several times in this debate: when 65 pst. by the visually impaired students experience bullying and reaching 40 pst. have an exemption in one or more subjects, we have not succeeded enough with this. It is important that the teaching material is organized for visually impaired students. Digitization gives us enormous opportunities, it was also the Council of State within its post, and it is important that we make use of these possibilities and facilitate it. But it's not just in the educational situation, it's also true in trial situations. We have received reports from the Norwegian Blind Federation that the screening tests may not be well organised. It's a signal I hope the Council of State will take along. I have previously addressed with the Council of State, in the form of a written question, the national tests. The national tests in Norwegian and mathematics are organised for visually impaired pupils, but not for the national tests in English. The council gave me an answer that was positive enough, and pointed out that here one short-term solution and one long-term solution. The short-term solution is to get a PDF version of the digital sample that should be possible for a teacher to provide guidance along the way, while the long-term plan is to switch to new test forms that allow everyone to be included and carry out the same test. I hope the Council of State will start work on putting in place the long-term solution as soon as possible. And then I want to do one more thing, and it's about the right to compensation skills, what's called ADL. It's about getting training in practical things to be able to cope in everyday life – everything from being able to put clothes together in a good combination to being able to eat with knives and forks and being able to wash up – things that are a matter of course for a lot of us, but like people with disabilities like this. low vision will require training. Before, this was within the legal text. It is no longer, and therefore no guide has been developed for these paragraphs, what we have heard from the Norwegian Blind Federation. In the past, it was also the case that this training was given in addition to regular school training. Now it is often seen that this comes instead of regular schooling – the students are taken out in regular hours and get it instead. It's unfortunate, because then you miss education that you need, and it gives a very unfortunate signal that it's not so important that blind and weak minded students receive training in Norwegian, English and math. The cooperation parties on the Stortinget – Right, Christian People’s Party, Left and Advance Party – have asked the government to conduct an investigation into how this can be offered in a good way without going beyond ordinary teaching. I have not registered that it has been followed up, and I hope that we can get such an investigation in place before this accumulation period is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1753	First a thank-you to the representative Thinning Bjørnø for raising the situation of the blind and feeble in this interpellation. So I also have to express that now is essentially a lot to say. What has not been mentioned are the slogans of the Centre Party: ‘Enjoy all of Norway’ and ‘Near people’! But I think all the parties have been concerned about inclusion, and that's what we want to get out today. The study referred to in the interview shows that this group of students has not received the attention they deserve. Not only do they have a disability in the first place, but we haven't managed to organize the students so that they can participate as equally as possible. We're all concerned with bullying and students' mental health. Being included is important for everyone, whether you have a disability or one. For the Center Party, it is therefore important that we reduce the experience of alienation by facilitating that everyone can participate as closely as possible in the same line as other students. As many people have experienced, it can often be that what might seem like the simplest way out, the most gentle, or considered the most considerate to the visually impaired, perhaps it is not. Both school, PPT and parents can argue for sole education, exemption from trades, etc. But in the long run, it can be a very poor solution, not least if the student is struggling professionally or socially. Segregating solutions are quick to respond, but may be the wrong answer in many cases. This study shows that many blind and partially sighted persons are just taken out of the single class. Trials and digital learning materials are not made available to students and a lack of competence in municipalities to facilitate good practice. In the past, we have been critical that the school-based competence of the municipality has been reduced. We see that this has been very unfortunate for the development of the school in general, but this study also suggests that it may have been unfortunate for students who need more organisation. Municipalities spend too much time connecting Statped. One must therefore review the kind of obligation that municipalities should have to contact Statped for organisation when the municipalities have pupils with disabilities. Statped and parents cannot do it on their own today, as I understand it. There are some who have raised the question of Statped in connection with our treatment of the previous report. Then we have to discuss: is it Statped that is going to be proactive towards the municipalities, or is it the municipalities that are going to seek help from Statped? We need to have a discussion about that in the future. The need to be part of the ordinary student group, we need to make sure that it is better cared for. It was as the representative Asheim said, that if it's like today that it's not allowed to bring classmates home via the taxi system, we have to fix it. If we're not flexible, we're helping with our laws and rules to put students on the side bar. It's not good, nor is it necessary. On the other hand, it's important that we don't organize more than we should. Misunderstand me correctly. I've been talking to a friend of mine who's visually impaired. He said it's very important that the blind and the feeble also learn to deal with challenges that life faces, and not learn avoidance as a strategy. Therefore, it is very important to provide assistance, but not misunderstand it, in the sense that those with disabilities are spared tests and jobs and are exempted because they cannot see or are visually impaired. It could in the long run lead to helplessness, which one takes further into the workplace, in society, in the family, etc. Some people with visual impairments will usually need segregated solutions, but it should not be the main solution, as these figures indicate. Therefore, it is important that we remove laws and regulations that separate and block blind and visually impaired people from participation in ordinary school life, but it is also important that parents see the importance of not shielding their children from challenges they will face at school, but assisting and backing them up to meet the challenges they face. It gives the students ballast to be able to do better on their own later in life. With a lack of diplomas, it gets harder, and then the students put others behind for further study and work, and we don't want that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1769	I guess I'll start with the Left's slogan, so it's also included in the debate. So it's people first. It would fit into what we're talking about right now, that's putting people in front of systems. I think the council said it very well when he said that we should not have lower expectations for people who are blind or weak. They're blind or weak-minded, they haven't impaired intelligence or they're stupid. We're going to meet them with the same expectations in school that we have for other kids. But if you're born with some extra or different challenges than most people, there's something about the bureaucracy you're facing, something about the extra you have to do all the way to get what you're entitled to, that feels like frustrating. When you're at school, when you have a kid who requires something from you, you should spend your time with that kid instead of spending your time fighting a system. Then I fully agree with the representative Tingelstad Wøien, who says that if you can't bring a friend home in the taxi because there is some regulation that says it doesn't work, we have to fix it, because it goes without saying that that's not the way we want it. It's inappropriate, and it's not putting people first. In the case of Statped, we get a little bit of different feedback. It is clear that those who work in Statped have a high level of competence, they have good competence, and they are able to provide assistance to those who need it. At the same time, we get a little bit of different feedback on how well it works, and whether it works after the intention. That's why I'm glad the Council of State is willing to look at it, whether that's how we achieve what we want, whether that's how that reorganisation actually has led to things getting better. Because we have to be willing all the way to look at the system that we ourselves administer, whether it's for the best for those who need the help that it's going to offer. When it comes to things having to work, I think we can all recognize that in everyday life there are things that don't work as they should. It's almost nothing that's as annoying as that. And when you have some extra challenges, you have an extra amount you have to deal with systems and the public. Therefore, I believe that the public has a responsibility to be a little bit on the offer side and to be there when people need that help. That is why the Left was so opposed when the government proposed cutbacks to the study associations. When the Blind Alliance comes to us and says that this cut can cause blind teenage girls not to be helped to learn how to make up, one might think: Is it a public task to teach teenage girls to make up? Yeah, that's actually it. It's a public task to help those who need a little bit more help. I really mean this: it's people first, and it's people in front of systems. Many have also spoken about special education. The Children's Ombudsman has had a round where they have seen a little different special education given in different municipalities. Their conclusion is that special education works when there is good special education. So it's with special education as it is with other teaching – it has to be good for it to fulfill its intention. And it's like this for all kids that you have to have teachers who know what they're doing. You have to have someone who can help with the challenge you have. Special education shall not be an offer to take anyone out of a classroom. Special education shall be an offer to help someone with a challenge they face. So we have a piece to go also in terms of special education, on a general basis. I would think that the same will apply to those who have challenges in terms of vision. Finally, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising this issue, for many times it is that we have to discuss these issues when there is a specific matter, when something has happened, when it is something concrete. But now we were given the opportunity to discuss it on a slightly more general basis, on a slightly wider basis. I think it is good that the Storting can take the time to discuss such an important issue, which, although it does not concern many, is all the more important for them. I believe we always have a responsibility to see if the offer we provide is good enough and works as intended. Here I think we can all go a little bit in ourselves. If everyone can stretch a little bit longer, they get their textbooks when they need them, they get their friend home in a taxi, and they get makeup classes when they get teenagers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1788	The representative Henrik Asheim was impressively knowledgeable about the catalogue of slogans in Norwegian politics. I can then add that SV has replaced «Various people, equal opportunities», although I still think it is a fine slogan to take the fight for a warm society, which is equally relevant in this debate. This shows, however, that it is not primarily the slogans or the good intentions that separate the political parties, but rather the instruments. Then we'll discuss how we can follow up this important debate and the good interplay with something that can do the reality of what we've just mentioned, related to, for example. taxi, which I was not familiar with either. It is good that the representative Thinning Bjørnø has given us the opportunity to do so, and has also given the Blind Alliance the opportunity to make some valuable contributions to us in Stortinget. This is about how to create an inclusive common school, a school where everyone can learn, succeed and thrive, a school that doesn't give up a single child. The reality is that today we are far too far away from a goal of real equivalent education in Norwegian school, and that we have a long way to go for more groups of students in creating a day-to-day school and providing education that is appropriate to the individual child and the individual student's needs. Some of this can be solved by the more general changes we need in school. In SV, for example, we mean: that more teachers, more time and attention to each individual student are not least important for those students with special needs. In addition, we have recently promoted a proposal for a representative on special education, and on the need for increased special pedagogical competence, which I think will also give the Committee and the Stortinget the opportunity to take seriously part of what we have been talking about in this debate. It is clear that which measures can best be supported by a student must determine which measures are selected — not for example. a quantitative measure to reduce the number of hours of special education. Nevertheless, I believe that we clearly have a challenge in organising education so that students who are not currently receiving a satisfactory benefit can receive training within the community. Increased teacher’s density in combination with special pedagogical competence is part of the answer. In the SV’s proposal for a representative, there is now a concrete proposal for consideration in the Storting on precisely one of the points raised to the Committee in connection with this debate – the need to legislate on Statped’s services. I think it is important that we discuss this further, that in the context of the examination of that proposal, we see whether it can be possible for the Stortinge to move forward more quickly, for example. ensuring that there is a link between the individual student and the needs of the family in the country and the possibility of connecting them to the offers that Statped can offer — even in those cases where the local follow-up that you should have is not given, thus missing out on this state offer. Otherwise, I think that with part-time training and the provision of joint collections for the blind and partially sighted under the auspices of Statped, another important proposal, which the Committee might also consider dealing with in the context of the same proposal for a representative. Thank you again for the inter-pellant and thank you for a good debate. Let's make sure that what we've been talking about here is followed up by action when there's such a broad consensus about the need to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1803	I would like to thank everyone for participating in the debate. Not least, I am pleased that all parties in the committee have participated. It shows an exposure to a group that doesn't get much time in this room. It also shows that we have unsolved tasks to ensure blind and partially sighted training. It is really the most important thing to ensure that all children and young people in Norway have equal rights to education, and that there must be a basis for how we organise for all pupils, but especially students with different disabilities. You learn best when you feel like part of a community, and when you're included. I have noted some of the main points of the debate. Firstly, all students should be able to exploit their potential. Exemptions shall only be granted in trades where this is absolutely necessary to provide students with good training, but only then. The same problem also applies to national samples. Then I have noticed that concrete measures are needed and called for to combat bullying, perhaps especially those targeting the vulnerable groups, that the necessary arrangements and necessary resources are needed for the students, that we can do what we can to avoid getting more situations and examples like what we had from Telemark and with Remi from the White Sea, that Statped can do its tasks in a good way for the students, and that the scientific environments for vision in Statped are sufficient and strong enough to help both schools and students. I miss answers from the Council of State on the resource situation and the manning situation, which I challenged him on in my post. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party also mentioned this with the ADL. Here we have to make sure that we get a better solution. So now let's move on a little bit, since we all seem to agree. Let's leave the party battles. Let's be system-critical where we have to, for example, on this example by taxi, and propose concrete proposals for necessary changes where necessary. I thank you for the debate and look forward to the concrete follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1818	I would also like to thank you for the debate. I agree that it is not so often that we discuss the blind and the weak, but I also think it is worth remembering that very much of what we are discussing in Stortinget, is often also justified by the very consideration of students with a need for organization. So now, for example, when the Storting. Discussing new bullying policy, it is not just general bullying policy; it is because we know that students with planning needs, for example. blind and partially sighted, or students with other disabilities, are particularly exposed to bullying. When we discuss early efforts, it's not just general early efforts; it's precisely because we know that for some students it's early efforts, especially if they need special arrangements, incredibly important. I agree, as I said, that when we evaluate how the reorganization of Statped has worked, we have to do it, of course, based on what the ambitions of the change were. But I would also like to stress that it is not that the new system is such that Statped should sit and wait for an enquiry. Rather, the whole point is that Statped should work and is expected to work more actively, be on the offer page, have a good overview of e.g. This group of students, which is not necessarily a very large group of students, so it's possible to have an overview of them. With regard to the national tests, I've already responded to it in Stortinget. The short-term solution is a PDF, but also sketches for a scheme that allows students with low vision to participate in the national tests in English. In the long term, we're going to have, as I mentioned in my post, universal organization, so that it's also possible to take those tests in the usual way. As for the question of a taxi, I have not been able to find out on the stand whether this is a national rule, or whether it is something that is often the result of the local authorities' rules, but of course there is also something I can find a formal answer to if the Stortinget wants it. In the case of ADL, that is, extra compensatory skills, there was a change in the revision, the supervisor was revised in 2013 – I don't know when it was done in 2013, it was the Education Directorate that did it – where it was clarified that ADL would be in line with what had been and was the legislation. So there has been no legislative change. Then I am aware that the Blind Alliance sees it as if one has lost a right, but it was not a right that was removed, it was no modification of the legislation, but how the legislation was, was clarified. Just so it's for information.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1831	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1849	When the health director presented the state of health of the state of the state of the state, Key figures for the health sector for 2016, he was concerned that one in five drops out of further education, and that one in ten people were struggling to implement. He didn't take up heart disease, cancer, lack of activity and overweight. No, he brought up one thing that he was particularly concerned about: young outreach. I thought it was worth listening to. He then pointed out that education is the most important mechanism for smoothing social differences and fighting poverty. We know that when we smooth out social differences, we also smooth out social health differences. The size has been clear in many messages: completed and passed further training provides the best platform for prevention of work and further education. Young people who do not complete further training remain outside and are at increased risk of permanent exclusion from the labour market. They also use public social security schemes to a greater extent than others. The need for unskilled labour will also be reduced in time. It is even more important than in the past that young people carry out further training. The proportion of young people who complete five-year-old continuing training has a doctor of between 67 pst. and 71 pst. since the introduction of Reform 94. In 2015, it was 83 pst. students of study-preparation programmes who completed and lasted within five years. The corresponding part of professional programmes was only 58 pst. 96 pst. of all young people starting further training at the primary level, but most of them interrupt the transition between the second and third stages of the vocational training programmes. This includes more than 8 000 young people in Hausten 2014. These figures are taken from the National Audit Office’s study on the follow-up to youth outside training and work, Document 3:9 for 2015–2016. According to the law on primary and secondary education, training law, §3-6, the county council shall have a follow-up service for young people who are entitled to training under §3-1 and who are not in training or work. Service debts up to the year they reach the age of 21, and the service also includes young people who have lost the right to training under § 3-8 and § 4-6. Thus, all county councils have a statutory obligation to have their own follow-up service to follow-up of young people aged 15 to 21 who are not in training or in work. The Nav offices shall include, inter alia: help jobseekers get a job. According to the national audit report I referred to, the quality of the follow-up of young people currently varies considerably from one country to another. In recent years, the follow-up service has been responsible for following up on 16 000 young people. The size of the population has determined that the follow-up service is an important function in preventing young people from falling outside. The national audit assessed the quality of the follow-up and found out that only one in three received close and good follow-up. In the 2011/2012 school year there were 3,600 elephants in the follow-up service, and 40 pst. Of these, they were trained the following year. So this works. But the National Auditor's report revealed great variation in quality, and 60 pst. young people do not receive follow-up, as they should. The part varies from state to state. In West Agder, for example, is 43 pst. not followed up, in Telemark 76 pst. by the young people not followed up by the county. We know that it is important to start action early. The report from the Riksrevision also showed that measures were taken many months before the county came in. The National Audit Office concluded its report that they saw it as serious that the responsibility under the Training Act was so lacking in respect of the county councils as a whole. In this context, it is pointed out that young people who do not complete further training are at increased risk of permanent exclusion from the labour market. The National Audit Office emphasises that although the county has an implementing responsibility to comply with the Training Act, the Ministry of Knowledge has the responsibility to ensure that the national objectives in this area are met. They state that: ‘The efforts of the Ministry of Education have not been sufficient to contribute to the provision of adequate follow-up for further training or work by the county councils to young people who discontinue secondary education’. Hordaland County is a county municipality that has wanted to do something about this. They have applied to the Ministry for project support for the establishment of a production school in Hjeltnes, as an action against just outsidership and non-response. They want to put in place quality knowledge of this with production schools and see that the Rokkan Centre will carry out a wide-ranging study of possibilities and barriers to production schools as measures in both the central and the districts. The government has rejected the application, but the Council of State has said in response to the Storting that it may be possible to apply for funds for production in a later state budget, targeting measures to increase completion, where production schools may be one of the measures that may receive financial support. In Hordaland, there is a good experience with the production school – Hyssingen – but Hjeltnes will stand out as different from the students there can live at boarding school. In Denmark, there is a wide range of production schools. They also have their own production school law. They also have good experience with production schools with boarding schools. Individuals may need to get away from their daily environment for a shorter or longer period of time. Today, Norway has no such offer. In this way, this can represent a national project. Production school is a practical training offer. It is based on practical work and instruction in the workshop. Students can try to work within different areas, and the aim is to create through production. Perhaps Norway should do more like Denmark — think new when it comes to non-response — by creating a practical learning base for those under 21 years of age who have problems and who have a desire and opportunity and can gain competence to pursue further education or to survive in the labour market in retrospect. The experience with Hyssingen production school in Bergen is that he has given good results. There, students get to experience masturbating through the real production of goods and services. They have three workshops. They have constructions, restaurants and food and cultural workshops. In this way, students receive vocational training, and they are strengthened in their personal and social skills, which are a basis for getting through a wider education cycle or for getting into the labour market. So this I think is something that Norway should have taken up, put into use production balls more systematically, as one has done in Denmark. My question to the government and the government is: What does the government do to strengthen the work against outreach and non-return? What kind of objectives or intentions does the government have for the use of production balls in Norway? And does the Council of State welcome the creation of a national pilot project for production balls, as requested by the County of Hordaland on Hjeltnes?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1890	It is quite right for the health director to point out that non-response and health are interrelated. It's the way most of the social problems are connected. Psychiatric health, non-response, non-employment, falling out of other welfare schemes and poor school results are very often linked, and often related in one person. Now I'm not going to advertise, but I wrote a book about this in 2013, which was hot – not without reason – The vicious circle, precisely because these things cannot be solved in isolation. One can't just look at apostasy and do something about it, and then everything else will solve, or just look at health, or just look at personal finances. It's all connected, and that's what we have to do, if we're going to get rid of the outside cabinet and get more in. My responsibility is to work against non-response. What we know is that there are a lot of different reasons why young people end up in, or drop out of, high school, and that's why we also need several different measures to address it. For some, it's simply a lack of basic skills, i.e. they haven't learned enough through primary school to actually get through high school. Then it's important that better schools, well-qualified teachers and not least early efforts are made. This is something that we have just delivered a big big big message, and it is actually also related to non-response. Some people can drop out because they don't get a place to learn, for example. We have launched a series of measures to increase the number of apprenticeships, for example: increased the apprenticeship grant, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, by NOK 20 000 during this period. We know that some might have been prevented from falling out if they had received help and been discovered earlier. So it's e.g. important with a strengthened health sister scheme, so that you do not just meet a closed office door. The cooperation parties at Stortinget have also invested heavily in this. In the 2017 budget, we have also set aside 100 million. kr to a new decentralised model of competence development which enables municipalities to develop even more effectively than today the schools where they think it is the most pressing. To find out what actually works in school – and this is important not least in terms of non-response – we will spend about 50 million in 2017. kr to an innovation scheme where schools and researchers can apply for funding to implement projects. In the past, we have set up the same research specifically on non-response. One of the problems with the issue of waste is simply that over the years we've had a lot of good intentions, a lot of measures, spent billions of dollars, but we're not left with a menu of actions that work. It is because good measures and money have not been linked to research that enables us to scale up and use good measures elsewhere. Now it must also be said that for the first time in a long time, implementation in Norwegian high school actually goes up, and we hope, of course, that it continues to develop. Other measures are also important. It's not all students who fit into an ordinary school. As a result, from the autumn onwards, all counties shall offer a system of letters of practice. It is a separate training offer that facilitates the provision of a more practical and less extensive training course to young people. Of course, they will not receive a full letter if they do not take anything more afterwards, but they will receive an offer that they can make. In the National Audit Office’s study on the follow-up to non-training and work youth, there are very many important and major challenges. The follow-up of this target group is not good enough, and it is particularly pointed out that cooperation between the different services is not good enough. Here it is worth mentioning that the government has now proposed to legislate not only that other agencies should be obliged to cooperate with the schools, but something that has not been funny enough in the law, namely that the school should also be responsible for cooperating with help agencies. The county councils have done a lot in recent years to bring down the fall, and the county councils are now systematically following up the findings of the National Audit Office. At the heart of this work is better cooperation between the follow-up service and Nav and between the various parts of the support system around the youth. The work on this implementation is also followed up from the centre, and close contact exists between the county municipalities such as school owners and the department. Then the representative asks a question that she has asked herself before, namely about production schools. Just let me say that I'm not going to propose a separate grant to one concrete production school in one state. But I've met those who run production schools in Hordaland. I have also looked at the experience from Denmark, and I repeat what I have said before, that I think there might be something here that we can also learn from in Norway. We just have to be clear that manufacturing schools are not an alternative to secondary education. It's not like what I'm talking about, for example. letters of practice, which are thus less theoretical but nevertheless advanced, or a form of apprenticeship, not a fully-fledged apprenticeship scheme, but a form of training. Production schools are something quite different. The purpose of this must be to get students at risk of falling out completely, turning the clock, dropping out of every frame, onto a better track. In Denmark, they have quite good experience with production schools, and I think it might be worth looking at it. I also said that to the delegation from Hordaland when they were visiting here. But I think when we're going to do something like this -- and if the reason is non-response -- we have to do it a little bit more systematically than just giving a single grant to a single state. I think it's very good and very exciting that Hordaland runs production schools, but if we're going to have a kind of grant that's going to catch them up, I think we have to think instead: let's give funds to the county councils to initiate new measures, some kind of start-up aid, maybe connect some funds so that we get good research out of it too – at least something that makes us know if this has any effect, other than good anecdotes – and then production schools could be part of it. I have also said in the department that we should look even more closely at the Danish experience, for all the instruments that can help us get more back on the school bench – and I believe that this is the goal, that young people should come back and complete advanced education, or that they should go to work on normal terms – I think we should look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1913	I want to underline what the Council said, that production balls are not an alternative to other further training, but it is for those students who have already dropped out, who are perhaps the most vulnerable students, and who need help getting back to school or work. If they do not receive help, they may be in the social security system in the future. So it's incredibly important. The interpellation is not about the prevention of non-compliance, but he is about the fact that the county council does not take its responsibility for follow-up even if it is statutory in the training law, which is also the subject of the National Audit Office's report. It said that six out of ten who have dropped out of school are not allowed to follow up on the county council, and that is quite serious. It's kind of a positive signal from the state council. He refers to previous questions, including: from the signatures. I can understand that he can't go in – or one could have done it, call it a national project, because we have too little knowledge of production balls in Norway. But Denmark has extensive experience, there are many production schools. What is a positive signal is that the Council of State is willing to consider this by introducing production balls as a more systematic measure in Norway. I have great faith that these kids can experience mastery through the experience of producing something, and so get on the right keel again. I also understand that there may be an idea of means for new measures against non-response. Here you can enter production schools as an action to apply for starting media. The point is that the county council has done a good job, among other things. With Hyssingen, but in order to get this done on Hjeltnes, they need drag help from the state. It is in a way a little bit persistent or not. Many in Hordaland hope that some sort of system could come into being in revision, but I understand that the Council of State might think a little bit longer in time. The question is, how will the Council of State actually follow up on what he said in his main article? If it is within the state budget, it comes up with a case of its own, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1926	I cannot give any concrete promises or any concrete timetable for how it will be followed up. It is very understandable that you, as a representative of a county, are very busy with the offers in that county. It is quite reasonable to be, but I believe that as a government council, my job is not to see if this is a good offer in a single state, but to see that if we are going to have a national system, it must be because we want to investigate whether production schools or other measures – perhaps similar measures – can get the absence of high school to go down. That's why I say that if we're going to do something about this, I think it has to be part of a larger system where others also have the opportunity to apply, and where, of course, the production schools in Hordaland can apply, but there won't be any guarantee that they will come. But when we can possibly present something like this to the Storting, whether it will come in a revised budget or in a government budget, I can't say anything about it right now. My point was that there's kind of two ways to answer the input. One is saying that it's not relevant, and that's in no way, because I think production schools are an exciting idea. But I'm also going to admit that it's at the sketch stage in the department, i.e. that we do not have a complete plan for production schools, rather than a plan that allows us to build up something like this on a level similar to that in Denmark. All the other measures I mentioned are actions that are in progress or that are coming and in the cold now. Finally, as the Riksrevision pointed out, according to the 2015 figures, many people did not receive sufficient follow-up to the follow-up service. This is something that the counties are gripping, and that is something that the ministries are following. As I also said to the control committee when this matter was dealt with there, I am in no way satisfied with the effort. I fully agree that even though the counties own this, and the counties have to do a job, it is also the case that I am responsible for the results, at least to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1939	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this topic. We all know the numbers: one in four students don't complete high school in normal time, one in three students in professional subjects don't complete in normal time. Some of it is about students having lacked or weak skills from primary school, something about mental problems and drug addiction. It is also about motivation, lack of follow-up and lack of networks. Something is probably also about us having a too academic school that doesn't fit everyone's needs. There are several ways to make school a better place for all students – a more practical primary school where theory and practice are better intertwined and learn early, more teachers who have better time to follow up the students, make the professions more practical and more apprenticeships. There are also new ideas and good projects that can improve the follow-up and motivation of more students. One of these ideas is what we are discussing today, namely the wish of the county municipality of Hordaland to establish a concept of production school where the impact of the action is also being researched, and where the possibility of establishing production schools is seen as a national measure against high school drop-outs. Hordaland County Municipality has already made its positive experience with the model of production school itself, from Hyssingen Production School in Bergen. Now they want to expand the offer to a production school offer on a lucky day basis at Hjeltnes. Much of the inspiration for this is from Denmark, where such offers are available, and it is particularly targeted at those who have experienced that traditional schooling is bad for them. The goal is to get young people back to normal secondary school or to work, through work, practical training, where students experience mastery and gain confidence in being able to succeed in work or education. I believe that such an offer can reach a group that is otherwise difficult to reach, where students get a more practical day at school, and where there is a great deal of emphasis on the social community. There may be many students who serve to have a more structured everyday life, where you will learn and work with both your head and your hands. The production school that Hordaland County has applied for will be a current offer for youth throughout Hordaland, and may also inspire similar measures in other counties. The council said this is worth looking at. He says, on the other hand, that he won't grant, he won't support single schools, he'll see it nationally, but he doesn't suggest anything concrete. We must be able to say that here are the good intentions, but the lack of action. It is quite clear that, if this type of action is to be implemented and supported, there should be measures or pilot projects with a transfer value for other countries in the fight against non-response. That's also the goal of this application, as Hordaland County has sketched it. The government has opened up several private schools, profiling schools or vocational schools, but there is no need for innovation, new ways of doing things, just to be done in private. In that case, it is a backwards way of pursuing policies on the assumption. How we get the most out of high school has been an ongoing debate for over 20 years, and we should as far as possible stand in the way of new ways of doing things, as long as it has a good professional and pedagogical basis, supported by local authorities and can have transfer value to other states. Nor can it be that the law can apply for private secondary schools that differ from it – to say – the model on which public secondary schools operate, but are not willing to see with open eyes on other public models.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1952	It is an important question that is addressed in this interview. In the fight against apostasy, a flexible and creative attitude is important. There are many tools that can be used to give more people a school that suits their abilities and personality. Many people don't fit into an A4 format, and well that's good. The Progress Party will therefore stress the importance of the existence of different alternative offers for young people who need help to return to training or work. Here the Danish model of production schools, which has been mentioned several times, can be worth looking at. The Progress Party is pleased that from the autumn there is a requirement for all counties to offer a system of letters of practice. This is a long-term measure that facilitates the provision of a more practical and less extensive training course to young people. We consider this to be one of several good tools in the fight against apostasy, where students can participate in practical work and training in business rather than in ordinary school education. Estimates carried out by the Centres for Economic Research show that if implementation increases from 70 to 80 p.m., it will result in an estimated 5.4 billion cost reduction for society. kr for each coal. Successful response to the dropout means not only that society saves money but also that we get to use human resources in a good way. It's about everyone having to get the chance to succeed, and taking care of each one in this context. The Party will stress that the main single cause of non-response is weak professional skills in primary school. It is in primary school that the basis for learning and development is laid, and early intervention is an element that needs to be strengthened. Research shows that early efforts in reading training can contribute to 80 pst. students with difficulty in reading and writing get into a good development if their efforts are put into the first or second class. If you wait for the third grade, the fraction drops to 50 pst. In case of measures in the fifth class or later, only 10 to 15 pst. by the students who will achieve normal reading skills. Here we will show that the government has just submitted a message proposing to legislate on the right to early action, and that those who need it will get the right help early enough. The Communication proposes that the school should have an obligation to cooperate with other student follow-up services. We in the Progress Party will also show that the government has launched more measures to improve the quality of school. This results in optimum training for students and will lead to lower non-responses in the long term. There has been a priority investment in the professional sector that contains several good elements that we believe will lead to less non-response. Lack of education is an important reason why students do not undertake secondary education. The apprenticeship grant has increased by NOK 20 000 per contract since the government joined, and the grant for the admission of apprentices and apprentices with special needs has also increased. It is a great responsibility to train an apprentice, and an increase in this grant may help to enable more companies to do so in a good way. The Government has also strengthened the requirement for the use of apprentices to win public tenders. The tightening implies that contracting entities must use the apprenticeship clause when public tenders are published. A label scheme for apprenticeships is also in place to make the enterprises with apprentices visible. In order to help those who have fallen from or are in the risk zone, the government has, among other things, strengthened local health services with several psychologists and health sisters in the municipalities. The appropriations allocated to school health services and health centres have increased by approx. $800 million. kr since the entry into force of the Right and Advance Party Government. In addition, the trials with the Nav supervisor in secondary school, which was established in autumn 2013 as a cooperation project between the Directorate of Labour and Welfare and the Directorate of Education. It is hoped that this will continue, so that all students will be able to succeed in both schooling and further participation in the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1973	Thanks to the interpellant for the interpellation. Thanks also to the Minister for a positive and understandable response. Of course, I agree that a pilot project must and must have a transfer value both to other states and to other schools. The minister said he understood that the interpellant as a representative of the county, also raised a question linked to a concrete school in the county. I'm not just a representative of the county, but I'm also a representative of Ulvik and James Hjeltnes. I think I'll take the minister's word. Since we're now representing two parties that are going to put us together in a couple of weeks to sort out a revised budget, I'm declaring that I'm going to do a job in my party so that we might give priority to finding money to set aside a pot for the purpose. So we know, all of us who have met with Hordaland County Municipality and Hjeltnes, that they have done a very good, thorough job and should, in so far as we are able to travel together, be very good at becoming the pilot who needs us to get better answers and get the concept of production balls tested.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1980	Thank you to the representative Kjersti Toppe for raising the challenge, the link between health, education, alienation and work, but also for lifting Hyssingen and the production school trials in Hordaland. But first to the Health Directorate: I think it is great, and the Council of State was also concerned that everything is related to everything. I think we've heard that before, too, especially in the Workers' Party. Health is what may be the most important factor in social inequality, but if you're outside of work, it's extra. But the instrument that works best to reduce social inequalities is just education. I was in the statistics: 70 000 young people under 30 are now out of work and education. The proportion of young disabled people has increased – and I think of less than 30 years there too – by 40 pst. in recent years. Those are serious numbers. There are great human consequences and enormous burdens for those who are in that situation, and it is very difficult to get them back into work or education. Therefore, we need to focus more on how to follow them up, and to cooperate more closely with Nav when young people get long-term disease reports and follow them up. I've been to several Nav offices, and they say that the proportion of young people with mental challenges is increasing, and the same is true of drug use; it is increasing, and it takes too long before they arrive at relevant treatment services. A review feedback for young people is that the time horizon is very short from what one feels when things go a little wrong, that one falls very quickly outside in terms of motivation. That's why Hyssingen and the production school trials are just so positive, because they take care of the youth, give them that structure, meet them where they are and bring them forward. I have been working for 11 years in the field of vocational training and advanced training and I see that sometimes it will be quite little more to get young people onto the right track. Those in this target group — including the Council of State — are young people who, for some reason, have lost much of the structure of life. When they meet someone who has those qualities and who sees them as whole people -- it's fascinating sometimes how little is going to happen -- they get into the ordinary course. Policy letters and all the other arrangements become a kind of B scheme, so we try to get the most into and motivated for the ordinary course. In the municipality of Bergen we also tried – and we have had it for very many years – a complete offer with boarding school, also linked to high school students. That's what's a little fascinating about what they're trying to do now and want to do at Hjeltnes, just to offer a 24-hour offer to those kids who need even more structure than what you're offering at Hyssingen today. It's worth trying out. Hjeltnes has been a gardener's school for an incredible number of years, has a long experience with shelter, boarding school, offering lucky day activities. Young people get away from the environment that hasn't influenced them so constructively, they're being built up. Young people also get to try out more green-related subjects and in other subjects than what you can offer at Hyssingen in the Bergen Centre. That is why we understand – and I think it is quite right, what is pointed out by the Council of State – that there is no way to provide support for a single action but to make demands. However, there must be an opportunity to apply for funds when there is as positive experience as there is here, and that it would be desirable to link them with post requirements for follow-up research. I have good cooperation with those who have a closer relationship with the government, and then I refer to my side partner here, who took the word before me, Terje Breivik. I believe that he gets through and follows up what he has said, and that we are able to see results now in the revised version. It would have been very positive, not least linked to the young people involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e1997	My starting point and what I started with was the health director's great concern for young aliens, so the Riksrevision's investigation, which strongly criticised the Ministry of Knowledge for not responding to the challenges that the investigation revealed, and that the Council of State did not put forward any new measures, as the Riksrevision recommended to put in place additional measures to strengthen the system approach in the county's work against youth. Combined with what is happening in Hordaland, this is a golden opportunity for the government to get new ideas into the apostasy and get what the county council has to do to work in a much better way than today. It is clear that a project in one state should and must have a transfer value if one is given state resources, but that is exactly what Hordaland County has applied for. And when it comes to research and documentation, it says in the application that a quality knowledge is to be put in place of conditions for production schooling and how production should act as a response to non-response and outreach, because the Rokkan Centre is to carry out a broad qualitative and quantitative study of possibilities and obstacles such as action in both central and regional areas by looking at both schools. So that piece has been taken care of. It's interesting to hear what Terje Breivik says. If this could lead to a case being raised in the revised national budget against getting a kick-off spot for new measures in the fight against non-response, it is something that Hordaland states can apply for. If it's in place this year, one could have gotten this up and gone from the fall off. That's also the goal. I tend to say that the best thing about today's government is that it doesn't have multiples. Then there's also a hope here that one might get a quick solution to this. Otherwise, I thank the Council of State for the answer and hope that, in the long term, one can also use production schools in Norway, in the same way that one today does in Denmark, whether it is in Hordaland or in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2008	I would also like to thank the representative Toppe for the interpellation, which has both a major theme, namely non-response, and a slightly smaller theme, or more local theme, namely the production schools in Hordaland. So, of course, the Storting is free to give money to what they want, really. It'll be followed up by the representative of Breivik, and then we'll see if the four cooperation parties agree on that. An important clarification: Although this is, of course, my responsibility as the Council of State, it can easily be given the impression, both through the interpellation text of the representative Toppe and through the speeches here, that this is a problem – the follow-up service and the lack of follow-up of young people – that has arisen with this government. It is only worth recalling that the Riksrevision study was in 2015 and extended several years in time, also well into the previous government period. Since this is being used so diligently, it is also worth saying that this matter has been dealt with in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Grand Duchy, which perceived the answers from the Ministry of Knowledge and me on how we should follow up the comments of the National Audit Office, as satisfactory – just so there is no doubt about it. Then it's worth mentioning in the end that now goes for the first time in the long run in high school up – that's what I hope to continue. I think an important reason for this is precisely that there is an offensive policy in place for more people to go to high school. I would also like to end by mentioning that we are now doing a great deal of research into what measures are working to get the drop-off and implementation up. There are measures that have been launched during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2020	That being the case, it is no. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2036	No one has asked for the floor. There was then a call to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2074	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2083	A total of 27 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-10, from Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 11, by Geir Jørgen Bekkevold on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 12, from Kårstein Eidem Løvaas on behalf of Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left the proposals No 13-19, by Geir Jørgen Bekkevold on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 20, from Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 21 and 22, from Kårstein Eidem Løvaas on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Left the proposals No 23–26, from Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of the Left proposal No 27, from Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23, 24 and 26, from the left. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back to Stortinget with a model to open up the Norwegian gaming market to operators other than Norwegian Typing through a strictly regulated licensing regime.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to come back to Stortinget with a plan to phase the Norwegian Typing surplus into the State budget, and with a corresponding review of the State grant schemes to relevant organisations, with a view to objective criteria for cross-sectoral and ministerial State support.’;» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back to Stortinget with an assessment of whether the dissemination of Norwegian Typing lottery drawdowns at NRK is in line with the objective of rationalising marketing for channelling purposes, including an assessment of the termination of the scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2137	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-five, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider changing the conditions for granting financial support to sporting organisations to prevent or discourage the marketing of non-regulated actors in the Norwegian market, including considering as a condition that exclusive rights to the dissemination of sporting events in Norway cannot be exploited by actors that also offer or market unregulated games.’ The Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2154	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15–17, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the distribution of Norwegian Tipping’s surplus to social and humanitarian organisations is based on a broad understanding of the concept of ‘profitable’ and that the concept of ‘other-oriented’ as a criterion of demarcation is applied with a broad interpretation’. Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The government asks the government to make the categories of the register more fine-tuning by applying criterion (b). Registered in the Register of Freedoms under certain categories.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce model 2 for the distribution of tipping agents to the social humanitarian organisations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2181	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the basis for withdrawing State pension funds abroad from gambling companies.’ [[SPU]] The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2198	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to define the requirement of ‘nationally-wide voluntary efforts’ in order to seek funds from Norwegian Tipping’s profits to social and humanitarian organisations such as: a nation-wide organisation has countable regional/local teams or counting members with a residence address in at least five counties.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the allocation of Norwegian Typing’s profits to social and humanitarian organisations to the overall costs of the organisation for the calculation.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2223	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the introduction of Model 2 for the distribution of tipping agents to the social humanitarian organisations, with the same adjustments to the entry criteria on which the government has established Model 1’;» The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2240	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests compensation for the loss of income of the Refugee Aid as a result of decisions taken in connection with Notification. Article 12 on the re-allocation of the surplus from the gambling funds by ensuring the organisation’s revenue at approximately the same level as in 2017 in the State budget’;» [[2016-2017]] The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2257	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 4 from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government requests that the websites of non-regulated gambling companies be blocked by the government.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to explore the possibilities of collecting today’s legal gambling actors in one company.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2281	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 3 and 5-10, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the Lottery Authority is given the opportunity to require annual reporting by banks on transactions to non-regulated gambling companies and payment providers.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the Lottery Authority is given the opportunity to oblige banks to reject transactions to non-regulated gambling companies.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals for the introduction of playing cards and registration related to all digital games.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to strengthen the exclusive right model by preventing the advertising of illegal gambling on Norwegian channels, if necessary by using the circumvention procedure in the AMT Directive.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider stronger restrictions on advertising for legal actors.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to allow the Lottery Authority to impose penalties in the event of a breach of the prohibition on the marketing of non-regulated gambling.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the Lottery Authority should be given the opportunity to investigate matters, inter alia, with access to public registers, and to require the submission of information by actors contributing to a breach of the prohibition on the marketing of non-regulated gambling.’; Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to keep the 30-second rule for bingo games unchanged’. The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2336	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the right, from the front, and from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider an amendment to the Lotteries Act. § 5, paragraph 4, with the aim of softening the ban on interactive traction distributed via electronic communications networks so that several operators can be allowed to sell scrap weights through mobile applications, for example.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2355	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Right, from the Party of Advancement, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests that the minimum threshold be set in the application basis for Norwegian Tipping’s profits for social and humanitarian organisations to be DKK 10 million.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2371	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to monitor the supply of gambling addicts and to propose measures to better protect gambling addicts where shortcomings are identified.’ All parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2386	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘It asks the government within two years to evaluate the effects of opening it up so that players can participate in internet bingo games.’ All parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2401	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking, in the context of the work on a new law in the field of gambling, to carry out a broad and external evaluation of Norsk Tippings and Norsk Rikstototo’s organisation and practices, to see how best to achieve the objective of reducing negative social impacts. This shall include an evaluation of the gaming portfolio of companies and whether current marketing and other media exposure practices can be based on channelling considerations.’;» Here too, all parties have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2416	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2433	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Tone Merete Sønsterud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Tone Merete Sønsterud on behalf of the Workers' Party, Left and Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, from Tone Merete Sønsterud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to contribute to the expansion of the master's letter system to several subjects.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2460	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Left and the Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the vocational schools can also contribute to their skills in terms of immigrants who need to fill or recognise a vocational training programme.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2477	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with an obliging stepping-up plan for post-secondary education places, with a view to significantly increasing educational capacity compared to the current number of students.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider providing for exemptions from general study competence and the age requirement for real competence for admission to some arts’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to conduct post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary education studies.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the social partners are offered the opportunity to be represented in the boards of vocational schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2524	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2565	In Case No: 5 and 6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2574	Case No. 7 is the third time the legal action is dealt with and is the subject of legislative decision 75, with the opinion adopted at the meeting of the European Parliament on 25 April 2017. That is why we are voting on the draft law with the adopted statement from the second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2586	The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved by the third reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2601	The President will draw attention to the fact that today there is a long record. 1st@item: inlistbox The Prime Minister's office reports that: [[312]] Law on amendments to the Law on Disputes [[2016-2017]] 2. Act amending the Law on Planning and Building [[2016-2017]] 3. Act on changes in the support law [[2016-2017]] 4. Act on changes in public law [[2016-2017]] 5. Research Ethics Organisation Act [[2016-2017]] – is sanctioned during 28 April 2017 Onest. : Annexed to the Protocol. 2nd@item: inlistbox Representative proposal by the depositors Per Olaf Lundteigen, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Kjersti Toppe and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum to evaluate the scheme that the country's pensioners and disabled people today do not receive their pension and social security payments on paper (Document 8:129 S [[313]] [[2016-2017]] 3rd@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the deposit representatives Jonas Gahr Støre, Dag Terje Andersen, Rigmor Aasrud, Lise Christoffersen, Tove-Lise Torve, Martin Henriksen, Odd Omland, Stine Renate Håheim and Kari Henriksen on the action plan for a serious and organised working life (Document 8:111 S [[314]] [[2016-2017]] 4th@item: inlistbox Representative’s proposal for the rights of pension slip on paper sent to the post office by the staging representatives Kirsti Bergstø and Karin Andersen (Document 8:119 S [[315]] [[2016-2017]] 5th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by depositors Karin Andersen, Kirsti Bergstø and Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik to ensure equivalent pension schemes irrespective of the type of operation, cf. [[316]] The Nursing Scheme, so that employees retain at least as good retirement benefits as before in the case of outsourcing of public sector activities (Document 8:124 S [[2016-2017]] 6th@item: inlistbox Representative of the Landfill Representatives Per Olaf Lundtägen and Kjersti Toppe on a force for a decent Norwegian working life (Document 8:130 S [[317]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : No. 2–6 are sent to the Labour and Social Committee. 7th@item: inlistbox Representative of the Landfill Representative Rasmus Hansson on an industrial policy for a coast free of emissions (Document 8:136 S [[318]] [[2016-2017]] Eight. Representative of the representative of the Grandfather Rasmus Hansson to phase out the use of environmental toxins in consumer products (Document 8:137 S [[319]] [[2016-2017]] 9th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes on the exploitation of food waste resources and sewage sludge and some other proposals (Document 8:141 S [[320]] [[2016-2017]] 10th@item: inlistbox Representative proposal by Mr Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on forest conservation and logging in the DR Congo (Document 8:144 S [[321]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : No. 7-10 is sent to the Energy and Environment Committee. 11th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by Marit Arnstad, Anne Tingelstad Wøien and Kjersti Toppe on the introduction of full VAT compensation rights for voluntary organisations (Document 8:102 S [[322]] [[2016-2017]] 12th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the depositors Kirsti Bergstø, Karin Andersen and Audun Lysbakken to ensure a profit-free child protection (Document 8:116 S [[323]] [[2016-2017]] 13th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the deposit representatives Hans Olav Syversen, Line Henriette Hämdal, Hans Fredrik Gruvan, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on measures to strengthen consumer rights in the trading of housing (Document 8:123 S [[324]] [[2016-2017]] 14th @item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the deposit representatives Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Geir Pollestad, Heidi Greni, Per Olaf Lundtägen and Kjersti Toppe to change the conversion of the Swedish Archives and strengthen the 8 regional state archives (Document 8:139 S [[325]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : No. The Committee on Family Affairs and Culture shall be sent 11-14. 15th Representative proposals by the deposit representatives Lene Vågslid, Stine Renate Håheim, Lise Christoffersen, Sonja Mandt, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Christian Tynning Bjørnø and Kari Henriksen to strengthen the follow-up in the rehabilitation phase of people exposed to violence in close relations (Document 8:108 S [[326]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : to be sent to the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, which shall submit its draft opinion to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for an opinion prior to the vote; 16th@item: inlistbox Economic accounts 2016 (Report. [[327]] St. 3 [[2016-2017]] Onest. : To be sent to the Financial Committee. 17. Representatives of the representatives of the elderly Karin Andersen, Kirsti Bergstø and Audun Lysbakken to strengthen the elderly through quality-based recruitment standards, more freedom of choice for the elderly and a trust reform rather than target management (Document 8:104 S [[328]] [[2016-2017]] 18th@item: inlistbox Representative proposal by Mr Sivert Bjørnstad, Mr Erlend Wiborg, Mr Oskar J. Grimstad and Mr Morten Ørsal Johansen to allow consumption of alcohol below 22 % by volume in parks (Document 8:105 L [[329]] [[2016-2017]] 19th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the depositors Olaug V. Bollestad, Rigmor Andersen Eide and Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on health care for paperless migrants (Document 8:106 S [[330]] [[2016-2017]] 20. Representative proposal from Kjersti Toppe to strengthen patients’ right to treatment within a reasonable time frame and to introduce full transparency on waiting times and waiting lists (Document 8:107 S [[331]] [[2016-2017]] 21st Last@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the deposit representatives Jonas Gahr Støre, Torgeir Micaelsen, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Kjersti Toppe, Knut Arild Hareide, Olug V. Bollestad, Audun Lysbakken and Rasmus Hansson on daily physical activity in school and an action plan for physical activity (Document 8:113 S [[332]] [[2016-2017]] 22nd@item: inlistbox Representative proposal by Mr Kirsti Bergstø, Mr Karin Andersen and Mr Audun Lysbakken on immediate measures to ensure safe maternity care (Document 8:118 S [[333]] [[2016-2017]] 23rd Last@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the depositors Oluk V. Bollestad, Hans Fredrik Gruvan and Kjell Ingolf Call on working conditions for hospital staff (Document 8:122 S [[334]] [[2016-2017]] 24th@item: inlistbox Representative proposal by Kjersti Toppe, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Per Olaf Lundtägen and Geir Inge Lien on the follow-up to the report of the Committee on Women's Rights and Replace the Health Business Act with a Health Administration Act and introduce the popular governance and local management of Norwegian hospitals (Document 8:140 S [[335]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : No. The Health and Care Committee shall be sent from 17 to 24. 25-digit number Representatives of the representatives of the Governments of Hadia Tajik, Lene Vågslid, Kari Henriksen and Jorod Asphjell to strengthen the work against rape (Document 8:110 S [[336]] [[2016-2017]] 26. Representative proposals by Jan Bøhler, Hadia Tajik, Lene Vågslid, Kari Henriksen and Jorod Asphjell to combat recriminalism and organised crime (Document 8:121 S [[337]] [[2016-2017]] 27. Representatives of the Governments of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Anders Tyvand, Olaug V. Bollestad and Geir Jørgen Bekkevold on measures to combat rape (Document 8:127 S [[338]] [[2016-2017]] 28. Representative of the Landfill Representatives Geir Inge Lien, Anne Tingelstad Wøien and Liv Signe Navarsete on the digitisation of all District Courts in Norway (Document 8:133 S [[339]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : No. 25-28 shall be sent to the Judicial Committee. 29. Representative proposals by the deposit representatives Lene Vågslid, Stine Renate Håheim, Lise Christoffersen, Sonja Mandt, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Christian Tynning Bjørnø and Kari Henriksen to strengthen the fight against violence against the elderly (Document 8:109 S [[340]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : to be sent to the Judicial Committee, which shall submit its draft referral to the Health and Care Committee for an opinion prior to the suspension. 30. Representative proposals by the Landfill Representatives Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal, Line Henriette Hemdal, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and Anders Tyvand on a key message on a strengthened culture school for the future (Document 8:112 S [[341]] [[2016-2017]] 31. Representative proposal by the depositors Audun Lysbakken and Karin Andersen on trust reform in school (Document 8:131 S [[342]] [[2016-2017]] Thirty-two. Representative proposals by the deposit representatives Audun Lysbakken and Karin Andersen on enhanced special pedagogical follow-up in an inclusive school (Document 8:132 S [[343]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : No. 30– 32 are sent to the Church, Education and Research Committee. Thirty-three. Amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act [[344]] [[2016-2017]] Thirty-four. Amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act [[345]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : No. 33 and 34 shall be sent to the Municipal and Administrative Committee. Thirty-five. Representatives of the Landfill Representatives Karin Andersen and Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik on better conditions for lone minor asylum seekers (Document 8:125 S [[346]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : to be sent to the Municipal and Administrative Committee, which shall submit its draft decision to the Committee on Family and Cultural Affairs for an opinion before such a decision is taken; Thirty-six. National Audit Office's investigation into the sale of F-5 fighter aircraft by the Armed Forces (Document 3:7 [[347]] [[2016-2017]] Thirty-seven. National Audit Office’s follow-up study on the Ministry of Justice’s work on social security and preparedness (Document 3:8 [[348]] [[2016-2017]] Thirty-eight. National Audit Office of the North Sea Fisheries Management and Skagerrak (Document 3:9 [[349]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : No. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs shall be sent 36 to 38. Thirty-nine. Representative of the Landfill Representatives Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Audun Lysbakken, Kirsti Bergstø and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on the introduction of a production premium for the rearing of salmon, trout and rainbow trout within the territorial line (Document 8:103 S [[350]] [[2016-2017]] 40, 40, Representative of the Landfill Representatives Kirsti Bergstø and Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes on the change in conversion law (Document 8:117 S [[351]] [[2016-2017]] 41. Representative proposals by the Landfill Representatives Line Henriette Hämdal, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Geir Sigbjørn Toskedal and Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on the reduction of public participation to review the competition situation on Norwegian soil (Document 8:128 S [[352]] [[2016-2017]] 42. Representative of the Landfill Representatives, Geir Pollestad and Heidi Greni, on the wholesale notification of the trade (Document 8:134 S [[353]] [[2016-2017]] 43. Representative proposal by Mr Rasmus Hansson on food labelling schemes for animal welfare, forage and antibiotic use (Document 8:135 S [[354]] [[2016-2017]] 44. Representative proposal by Mr Rasmus Hansson for a ban on cage hens and for a ban on the labelling of caged eggs until the ban is in place (Document 8:138 S [[355]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : No. 39 to 44 shall be sent to the Business Committee. 45. Representative proposals by the deposit representatives Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Trygve Slagsvold Vedum, Heidi Greni, Anne Tingelstad Wøien and Per Olaf Lundtegen to ask the government to submit a report on the taxi industry (Document 8:115 S [[356]] [[2016-2017]] 46. Development and financing of the project E6 Vindåsliene – Corporalsbrua in Southern Trøndelag (Prop. [[357]] [[2016-2017]] 124 S 47. Representative proposal by the depositors Knut Arild Hareide, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and Hans Fredrik Gruvan on extended storage obligations of IP addresses to protect children from abuse (Document 8:126 S [[358]] [[2016-2017]] 48. Representative's proposals for bridging representatives Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Audun Lysbakken and Karin Andersen on bridging development in Norway (Document 8:142 S [[359]] [[2016-2017]] 49. Representative proposal by Mr Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on urban environmental agreements (Document 8:143 S [[360]] [[2016-2017]] 50. Representative of the Pedestrian representatives, Mr Knag Fylkesnes and Mr Kirsti Bergstø, to launch a concept selection inquiry on the Tromsbahn (Document 8:145 S [[361]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : No. 45 to 50 shall be sent to the Transport and Communications Committee. 51. Representative proposal by Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell for a comprehensive and independent evaluation of foreign and development policy instruments in Norwegian policies towards Israel and Palestine (Document 8:114 S [[362]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : To be sent to the Foreign and Defence Committee. 52. Representative proposals by deposit representatives Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Liv Signe Navarsete and Marit Arnstad on Kjeller Airport (Document 8:120 S [[363]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : to be sent to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, which shall submit its draft referral to the Transport and Communications Committee for an opinion before being put to the vote;
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-02.ana.ud290e2819	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
