ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e25	A number of permit applications are available: from the Workers’ Group on the leave of the representative Knut Storberget from 15 March to 23 March to take part as Norway’s representative in the Governing Board meeting of the Global Crop Diversity Trust in the Philippines from the representative of Fredric Holen Bjørdal on parental leave from 20 March to 2 April by representatives Geir Sigbjørn Toskedal and Marianne Aasen, on leave on 21 and 22 March, both to take part in the meetings of the EEA Parliamentary Committees in Brussels, from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the leave of the representative of Mr Inbjørg Amanda Gösskenen for the period from 21 March to 23 March to take part in the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris from the Workers' Party Group on Permit of the Representative Sverre Myrli on Permit from 21 March to 23 March to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Sarajevo On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For East-Agder County: Lene Langemyr from 21 March to 23 March For Akershus County: Are Health from 21 March to 23 March and Anne Odenmarck from 21 March to 22 March For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen from 21 March to 23 March For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve from 21 March to 30 March For the Rogaland County: Marie Liones Breek from 21 March to 22 March
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e109	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e114	I am pleased to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the Greens/Greens/European Greens that citizenship should not be withdrawn and that dual citizenship should be allowed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e119	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will state that an enquiry has been made by the Control and Constitutional Committee regarding hearings planned for the Committee. The Committee requests that a hearing be held on the day of the Grand Meeting, i.e.: Tuesday, March 21st. This means that the second sentence of the third paragraph of Section 27 of the Rules of Procedure must be waived. The President proposes that the request by the Control and Constitutional Committee be met and that the Storting approve that provision of the Rules of Procedure be waived. Is there any objection to this? – It does not seem so, and it is considered adopted. The President will then state that during yesterday's big-time meeting there was an incursion referenced error of time for the State Council Protocols when dealing with referendums 181. The correct one shall be: the State Council Protocols for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2016. – This is then considered to be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e143	We are now going to have a round of debates which deviates from the guidelines for debates set out in the Storting Rules of Procedure. The President will propose the following arrangements: There is a separate debate on each proposal that is to be discussed. The person presenting the proposal shall have a speaking time of up to 10 minutes. Other articles on the same proposal have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. If someone wants further comments on the same proposal, the speaking time will be up to 3 minutes. There's no way to take a line. The number of posts per representative is limited to two plus one short note per proposal, in line with the general rule of the Storting Rules of Procedure. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President requests that the representatives who wish to participate wait until we come to the proposal in question, unless they come up and report to the secretary and are noted in the old way. Let's go to the suggestions. We start with the Constitutional proposals 23 and 26 that are being debated in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e160	]: Norway is a large port managing sea areas seven times our land area. The proximity to the sea has always influenced people in this country – our history and not least our economy. For the Labour Party, it is important to ensure that the fish is owned jointly by people and that this right is not privatised. The fact that the fish are common to their resources, we see it as such an important principle that it should be incorporated into the Constitution itself. It shall prevent the privatisation of these dishes and ensure that they will also listen to the community in the future. The constitution is the law of the people, which confirms the values and rights on which our society is founded. The constitution shall also represent the lasting. The Norwegian fisheries management has been a success, with sustainability, and provides large revenues and important jobs across the country, but especially along the coast. Our goal is for Norway to be the world's leading maritime nation. We have to bet on the natural advantages that the sea, the fjords and the long coastline give us, in order to secure value creation and employment. And we have to ensure a resilient management, in the perspective that the resources can hold us forever. In the law, the government has given both a responsibility for and a right to manage the fish resources for the benefit of the people. By means of laws and regulations, the Community shall be guaranteed control. The right to fish is an exclusive right given to fishermen on behalf of the people. It's the people who own the fish. Therefore, no one can hold an everlasting quota. But during the Right-front party government, we have still seen new attacks against the community's ownership of important natural resources, such as the force of water, such as the fish, such as the forest. Repeated regulatory fetching attempts spell control these important resources. This sale of Norway is the Workers' Party against it. We don't want to gather resources on a few hands, but we want to keep a varied fleet of small and large boats along the whole coast, hosting the community's resources. With the Right and Advance Party in government, ownership constraints seem to be becoming a foreword, and the desire appears to be great both to remove quota ceilings and to remove regulation, which is an obstacle to the ever-increasing accumulation of fish resources on fewer and fewer hands. I am therefore pleased to be the co-rapporteur for this proposal, which seeks to establish the Community's ownership of the fish. This is about securing these important natural resources for future generations. Representatives from the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are on the proposal. In addition, SV has submitted a similar proposal. This promises well; a large majority of the population stands up to ensure that the fish resources belong to the community, and will provide additional protection under the Constitution. There is already an important principle of community ownership of marine resources laid down in today's legislation. Under the Stoltenberg Government, this principle was incorporated into the Marine Resource Act. According to marine resource laws, the state does not own fish in the sea and marine resources. The wording is precisely that the people and the community have ownership. Marine resource laws regulate not only coastal fishing and business, but also new resources that were not previously covered by the fisheries policy law. Law applies to all the hoarding and other exploitation of all the wild marine resources and their genetic material. This is an important principle. Only a few of the organisms found in the sea along our coast, especially in the north, are explored in the context of nutrition. Many marine species are probably not known, e.g. Several of the so-called mesopelagic species, i.e. those living in the deepest depth of the sea. There is a cross-political agreement that we will explore the sea to a greater extent, and then the exploitation of the biological material could become an important growth area for Norwegian business. The law states that anyone looking for, researching or exploiting marine resources must have approval for it, because we want to have control over the management of these important resources. But the Right Party and the Progress Party challenge these rules. In the maritime industry message, which was handled in the spring last year, there was a proposal from the Right-front party government that there should be permanent exceptions to the participation laws when hosting wild marine resources that it has little to do with. But these are species that can have a very large potential for future coughing. Fortunately, the majority in Stortinget then stated that there are good reasons why the participation law’s requirements as a general rule should also apply to those who want to house new species. Royal crabs and snow crabs are examples of new species that are currently subject to the Participant Act and are attractive sources of income for active fishermen. The majority concluded that new species should be considered as resources that can be used for local value creation and that the main rule should be set. In addition, there are two distributions, one from the Storting saying that such exceptions may help to put the nationality requirement into play, while the Advocate General came to a different conclusion. This shows how important it is not to have a pen stroke to change an important principle and thus take chances with our common national resources. I agree with those who say that not everything can enter the Constitution. But this is about ensuring that everything that lives in the sea should be the community's resources in the future. A fundamental law is a clear indication of the importance of this, which will also have an impact on the policy and design of laws and regulations in the future. And most importantly, what is stated in the Constitution cannot be changed without careful consideration. The basic law proposals are made by one store and handled by the next one, which means that there is a choice. And to change the Constitution, one has to have two thirds of multiples in Stortinget, that's not enough with regular multiples. With this we want to ensure that we don't get into a situation where the community no longer has control of the great values that the sea represents. Therefore, I also see it as important that the Constitution not only determines that the fish is the community's property, but states that all the marine resources belong to the community, as is also stated in the Marine Resource Act. At the same time, we must also stand up for other parts of the law, such as the Participant Act, which will ensure nationality requirements and active fishermen and the principle that fishing quotas will not be eternal. The right and the right have shown that they have a different view of this, and they have been willing to challenge the law several times. The government platform suggests that they believe that the right to take care of their community's resources can be granted forever. As I said, I'm concerned that the Right Party and the Progress Party have shown that they are willing to challenge the nationality requirement, take chances, and thus put an important principle at stake. From the Labour Party's side, we're clear that if there's the least chance that the nationality requirement will be put into play, we're not going into that road. We have to be whole, 100 percent, sure of the consequences of the changes that are being made. To conclude, the Right Party government shows us that it is necessary to go even further for the people to secure their ownership of natural resources. So we go in to legislate the most important thing from the marine resource laws, that the marine resources belong to the Norwegian people. In concrete terms, a new § 112a is proposed, which states that the living marine resources and the associated genetic material are owned by the national community.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e194	The story of Norway starts with the sea. When the first Northers settled here in the north, Istida had just let go of the roof. There was still ice in much of today's Norway. There were a few places they could take a bus ride. It was along the sea and along the rivers. The last updated date said that today's Norway build started 11 000 years ago. What was in this islet that attracted? It was the living life of the sea. The huge marine resources made it enough food even if life was hard. We know history of how the rich sea and fisheries built Norway. Nidaros was first and foremost a trading place established by the holes from the north – or barges, as they were later called – to trade fish for other commodities. Nidaros and Trondheim are built on the sea their wealth. We know the history of Bergen and how the monopoly on fishing trade ensured that the western capital got the position he got – and has – in the fishing and work of the northerners. We also know the pomor trade, from recent times, where Norway had fish and fur that were exchanged for agricultural products from Russia. Russia was then the second largest trading partner to Norway, next to Germany. Now we're talking about the 1880s. Through the pomor trade, almost all the cities of today’s North Norway were established as a trading hub, and before this trade was abruptly stopped by the Russian revolution in 1917, it had even developed a strange commercial language – a mixture of Norwegian, Russian, Sami, German and Dutch. Not so many people know. There were resources from the sea that built Norway. They created export income and surplus to create the society we have today. Today we also see how the sea gives new life to the story of Norway in the future. The'space' is called by some, and in the election campaign this year the sea will once again be centralized. Norway is a port, we've always been and hopefully always will be. Our destiny as a nation is strongly linked to the sea. In all these years, the sea has always been a common public, and the people of the coast have always had the right to dwell on the marine resources where they live. The first is the general principle. The marine resources haven't been the property of anyone, not even the King owned the fish in the sea. To the extent that there was someone who had ownership, it was the people in common. We already see the general principle in the general laws, all the way back to Frosting, which can be traced back to the 400s. That principle was passed on by Magnus Lagbøte in 1274, passed on by Christian V in 1687, passed on in the general laws of 1857, divided into various laws of 1992, but explicitly passed on in our time. Today, this principle of fundamental law protection is no longer covered by the provisions of both the Sea Resource Act and the Participant Act. The second principle, which is in the same laws, is the principle of subsidiarity. Although the marine resources belong to the Norwegian community, they always have their hundreds of years of practice and principle of local primacy. Not just own the community of the good that the sea provides – the wild marine resources have been the basis for culture, settlement and living along our coast. The Marine Resource Act formulates this wisely in the preliminary draft: the wild marine resources are in the community, and the coastal communities are the starting point for the service. That's how Norway secures value creation, settlement and coastal culture. Community ownership and private value creation are ensured at the same time. The extensive legal-historical review of the Coastal Fisheries Selection, NOU 2008:5, also shows that the principle that closeness to marine resources confers a special right to house these resources has been an important and central part of Norwegian case-law: ‘The Committee then notes that strong points in the legal history point towards a customary right with a special right to fish in the fjords for people in the fjords. However, it is not necessary for the sample to address the issue on the basis of historical use alone, all the time when this use forms only one of the two legal bases for a particular fjord. The Committee shall express its opinion on the right to fishing also in the light of the rights of indigenous and minority seamen.’;» These two principles — the general principle and the principle of subsidiarity — are closely linked. That's two sides of the same thing. We could call that the yin and the yang of the sea. That one principle cannot exist without the other. One can only imagine: if the sea is privatised and taken over by someone, the principle of subsidiarity is undermined. Similarly, if the people along the coast are refused to fall off the sea outside their living windows, the marine resources are no longer their common property. Why is it so important to define these two principles in the Constitution today? Yes, because they are being challenged – because these 1000-year-old principles, which have ensured growth and development in this country, are now being challenged and undermined by a small elite, who have great interests in gaining control of fishing rights. The right to fish is being collected on fewer and fewer hands. A few riders and financial institutions have taken control of a large proportion of resources. With the approval of the state, they have made the right to fish for a commodity, such as currency, axes and others, that is sold on the stock exchange. Young people who want to become fishermen cannot afford because the right to fish has become too expensive. Only in the last year has the price of a fishing quota gone into the weather, and both young people and fishermen are now telling us that they do not have the opportunity to get into the fishing or to increase the capacity of already existing boats. Being a fisherman has become too expensive for ordinary people. Coastal communities with long traditions and fantastic fishing are set aside. Not only are viable societies and coastal culture weakened, but the principle that has been established in our legal history is also undermined. It is not easy to understand how this has happened. How can a dozen families control half of all fishing rights? The Marine Resource Act clearly states that the wild resources belong to the community and will benefit coastal communities. But unfortunately, this legal protection has not been good enough. There are many statements, there are regulations, regulations and instructions that each day undermine the whole intention of Norwegian fishing. Therefore, it is important to get this laid down in the Constitution. We are in a special situation in this debate, which may be missing a parallel. The Workers' Party's proposal is exactly like the SV's proposal. It's directly copied, but they've omitted a very central thing in their proposal. They have struck half the proposal. For which our proposal says: ‘The wild marine resources are owned by the national community and are intended to contribute to employment and settlement in coastal communities’, the Workers’ Party has struck ‘and is intended to contribute to employment and settlement in coastal communities’ in its proposal. The consequences of ironing the coast from the Constitutional proposal are enormous. If the Labour Party's proposal becomes part of the Constitution, it will not help young people who are not currently involved in fishing because it is too expensive. It doesn't help coastal communities that are losing their dishes today. What it does, on the other hand, is that it protects developments today, where more and more of the control is being moved to fewer and fewer hands. Only the national ownership is guaranteed. It thus protects a small, rich elite, who have hamstered enormous values in today's politics. This working party has been actively deleted once they have copied SV's text. Our aim of the proposal is to bring two central legal-historical principles into the Constitution at a time when these customs are challenged: that the sea is the property of the people, and that proximity to the marine resources gives a special right to dwell. This is the last thing that the Labour Party has actively removed, and I hereby call on the Labour Party to reconsider its own proposal. Failure of the coastal people in this way is not the Labour Party I know along the coast and especially in North Norway. Since we presented this proposal, we have also tried to involve the people. This is the people's constitution as well, and this is then to those degrees a popular proposal from SV. So we've put forward a black book that we've placed on some fishhills that are now established down on the dock here in Oslo, in a naust. We also have a black book where people can sign the proposal itself, which is traveling around the country. We are going to escalate this activity as the very discussion of the proposal in Stortinget approaches, but I can already say that there are more than 10,000 signatures on this proposal. So this has a popular base, I'm completely overestimated.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e235	The next speaker is the representative Karin Andersen. Sorry, the next speaker is the representative Rasmus Hansson.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e242	Of course, it would have been a pleasure to let the representative Karin Andersen go first, but I thank the president for sticking to the rules. Norway has made two major industrial and principal choices that have meant extremely much to the nation. The first was when we decided that the fall rights in what was our first energy resource, our first basis for industrialization, the fall rights in the major watercourses, should belong to the public – would not be privatized forever. It has provided a basis for industrialisation and the construction of Velferds-Norway which can hardly be underestimated. Then we discovered oil. Then we had enough in our stomachs and in our minds enough to base the same principle on: The oil belongs to the people. The oil will benefit the people. The oil must create jobs in Norway and along the coast. This has been the basis of Norwegian oil management and has made it something that is very much in agreement that is the most successful in the world and that has largely ensured that the people get the benefit and joy of the resource they own together. Personally, I am reluctant to support the inclusion of many new, specific provisions in the Constitution. Most conditions in society and most of the considerations are well taken care of – or best – by the rest of the law. However, when the Green Party and I are in favour of the proposals to include joint ownership of marine living resources in the Constitution, it is because we have now come into a situation where questions have begun to be asked about the common ownership of marine resources – from the blue government. While this discussion has come up, whether we should move towards regimes that give private ownership and can undermine the national ownership of marine resources, there seems to be unisoning consensus in the Storting and in society that a large part of the future of Norwegian industry, the Norwegian economy and Norwegian interest policy lies just in the sea. Norway has come into an exceptional position thanks to geography and geology, which has given us a huge continental shelf. Thanks to extremely far-sighted – and we have to say extremely lucky – politicians and people from the administration, we have gained global support for an international maritime legislation that gives Norway control over an enormous sea area, with fantastic resources. And thanks to good governance from both industry and government, living resources in Norwegian seas are in a better state than in most other seas in the world. It gives us exceptional opportunities, based on this species' wealth – the chemical and biochemical possibilities that lie in those species – what is going to be a very large part of tomorrow's technology and material production. In such a future, it is absolutely essential to establish that the living resources of the sea should and must be owned jointly by the people. At the same time, it has to be established that the use of these resources is an absolute prerequisite for the achievement of the resilience limits of the ecosystem. It is therefore interesting that the proposals of the Workers' Party and SV are linked to the Environmental Paragraph of the Constitution, § 112, about which they belong. Then the Green Party will come back to how we relate to the individual legal texts and the point the representative Knag Fylkesnes took up at the end, namely the assurance that ownership will benefit the coastal people and the coastal industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e259	Several have not asked for the floor for the draft Constitutional Laws 23 and 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e266	I am very pleased to present this proposal because the rights of all people are and have been a supporter of Norwegian society and culture. It has been an important part of our identity and cultural heritage, yes, one of the most Norwegian and finest we have. All human rights are freedom and freedom for all, of invaluable importance. The right to be in nature, regardless of who owns the land, is part of our important cultural heritage. We can walk in the woods, everyone – on the mountain, along the beach. We can anchor our boat a hot summer day. We can swim, count and ski without asking permission. We can pick blueberries and mushrooms for free, regardless of property. The Court of All equates all of us with the use of open spaces and nature. State, rank, origin and ownership do not restrict our freedom under universal law. On the other hand, it builds community and is an incredibly important symbol that the country is for everyone – an inalienable and old dish that has shaped us. I believe that the Court of Human Rights has shaped us in a good way, as a country, as a people and as an individual. Because we own these values together and use them together, we will also build the best basis for taking care of them. I'm a combination of the great poet Hans Børli. He had his life in the woods – he had to. But at the same time, in one of his poems, he has described very well what it is about legislating the rights of all persons. The poem is called ‘We own the forests’. I'm not going to read the whole thing, because I know it might not be so popular, but the point of the whole poem is, as he says it: "I never owned a tree. None of my people have ever owned a tree – yet we own the forests [[...]] with the red blood straight.’ He goes on to say in the poem: ‘you can buy a thousand target forests and a thousand more targets, but not happy to go home [[...]] when the raspberry blooms along the path – No, we own the woods. such as the child’s owner’s mother.’;» So important is the universal right that SV believes it should be included in the Constitution. It also means very many large outdoor organisations in Norway, such as the Norwegian Tourist Association, the Norwegian Free Air Association and the Swedish Free Air Councils. The last person who has now given his support to this is the Norwegian League of Hunters and Fishermen, which has wholeheartedly supported the proposal to legislate on the rights of all persons. I really hope the Storting will be involved in this. Because in our time, in the search for the core values -- what shows what is fundamental in our thinking about the freedom and rights and equivalence of individuals -- there are few other rights in this country that go so to the core of it, and that have had such importance in how we think about each other in this country, as the right of all human beings. I am one of those who have grown up under these trees without ever having owned a tree. Nevertheless, in my childhood I owned the whole forest, and I think it has shaped me in a good way too. I talk a lot to people who have moved to this country who experience all-man rights as an incredible gift when they get here. It's not just saying something about freedom, it's also saying something about how we behave when we meet at this arena where we practice all-man rights. Then we greet each other, we turn off a chat, and we look at each other with a little new eyes, maybe not on the basis of a little waiting suspicion, but with a positive attitude: in the whole world, are you here, you too – then we have something in common? We're talking to each other. The Constitution lays down basic rules on the form of governance and the limits on the freedom of State to act in the form of human rights, such as: We've worked in different parts over and over again. There have been slightly different opinions about it, of course, but there are also other things that are constitutional now, such as provisions on the protection of the environment and on the state's duty to ensure that we can feed ourselves on our work. There are many freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, and there are values that also constitute us as societies. All rights are old, that's a claim right. It has come out of various rights that have emerged over time. Today, it is mainly regulated by the 1957 Outdoor Act, but with many amendments, and there are also many other legal provisions that guarantee the right of all people today. There are written doctoral thesis on all-man rights, and it is complicated today to find all the legal provisions that include it. I think we can be absolutely sure that the rights of all people over time have also contributed to the smoothing of economic differences. Before, it was actually of great importance to people who could harvest freely from the forest and nature. Today, it is first and foremost open-air, but also public access to different areas we protect with this. Outdoor life is incredibly important for people's well-being and also for the way we deal with each other. It may seem that the rights of all people stand high in Norway today, but both in the beach zone and in the mountains we see that it can be threatened. Equally, all-man rights do not prevent the commercial use of land, but they impose any restrictions, just as it imposes any restrictions on those who are required to exercise the right of universal use, to take due account, not to neglect and not to destroy — of course. It's probably not that we can imagine, for all eternity, that the rights of all people are protected. It might be that someone wants to rock it forward. Then a basic law is a safety valve that means that if you want to change the underlying laws that can be corroborated by the law of the General Court, it must be opposed to a constitutional law that I and SV hope the Storting will be involved in. We have discussed various ways in which this all-man right could be formulated in the Constitution, and we have stated that the purpose of the wording should be a constitutional provision that gives an obligation and limits the freedom of action of states and municipalities to intervene or changes in the law that could restrict the right of all persons. It's been very important for us to do it that way. We're promoting a little bit of different texts. One says: «The authorities of the Member States shall ensure and promote the rights of all persons and the natural basis of open air life.» It's from the purpose section of the Outdoors Act. One might imagine a wording as today's Basic Law § 117 on the right to vote and to sit: ‘The general right shall not be revoked.’ But the one I like very much, and to which I hope the Greatness joins, is this formulation, which is equal to book goals and new Norwegian: ‘The general right shall be maintained.’. That, I think, is a formulation that takes into account in a very good way what we want to achieve with this proposal: both to show what fundamental value, also for the view of each other in society, the right of all persons has been, is and we want it to be in the future, and to have a protection against being able to intervene in the right of all persons in the future. If someone wants to do so, then it has to go over a great period of time, so that we have to make proposals that can be passed on to the people, because the right of all people is the property of the people and one of the most important freedoms we have. I am pleased with the broad support that SV has received for this proposal from all the organisations, and I hope that Stortinget can also join this in the next period. Then we've created a value and a right that has shaped us in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e348	No more have asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e356	Constitutional treatment is an important issue. It's about some of the most important values, the rights and the limitations we're going to impose on the government, but also about how we're going to deal with our all the most important obligations. The most important freedom a human being can have must be to get out of an area where life is threatened, and into an area where one is safe. This is why the SV and the Left want the right to ‘apply and accept asylum against persecution’ to be enshrined in the Constitution. It is a recognised international principle. In 1948, the UN General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and there is Article 14 as I just quoted. Asylum is not a perfectly precise legal concept, but is described as a haven for persons who need protection from persecution because of race, religion, nationality, membership of a social group or political opinion. It is the Convention on the Legal Status of Refugees of 28 July 1951, the Convention on Refugees with Protocols of 1967, which is the most central international agreement on protection against persecution and abuse. Norway is obliged to do so, including today. The Convention to which I refer contains provisions on who can be regarded as a refugee, the rights of a refugee, and the obligations of the State to accept refugees and allow them to seek asylum. One of the most important provisions is the right not to be returned to areas where his or her life or safety is at risk. In our time, this is a matter that has an extra big and current significance. As I said, like the rest of the countries of Europe, Norway has signed the refugee convention, where we undertake to accept refugees, not for the life they had hoped or planned, perhaps not even for a plan B, but for a plan C or D – a crisis solution in a terrible situation. Today there is no fair sharing of responsibilities when it comes to the world's refugee situation. The global response capacity, or what I'm going to call it, is very weak. Some take a lot of responsibility, others little. The management of the refugee disaster – which has not affected us, but millions of refugees around the world – in very many of the countries that have signed the refugee convention gives cause for concern, concern because the practical situation is being handled in such a way that the basic human right, namely to seek asylum, is threatened because asylum cannot be sought, because the measures that the countries have to try to avoid taking this responsibility and pushing it over to neighbouring countries or other countries, or I do not know who, are involved in undermining this right that we have all joined and are committed to. We who promote this proposal believe that we cannot secure our own civilization by turning the blind eye to people like refugees from war, tyrants and religious extremism – when such chaos arises that we deal with it in a way that threatens the fundamental right to seek asylum. It's taken one century and two world wars to get human rights in place. If you really want to achieve respect and moral credibility for this, rich and well-developed societies like our European societies must be able to deal with these obligations even when there is a greater pressure on us than we have been accustomed to. It is such that the starting point of our commitment today is to find both in the UN Convention and in the European Convention on Human Rights. We have obligations after both. But there's no new invention. Historians say that the concept of asylum has roots all the way back to ancient Egypt, and it has been far passed through history. England got its first law on asylum in the '60s, I've been informed. Seeking asylum is a human right, but not necessarily getting it. I would like to stress that what we are now proposing is that we should legislate on this right to apply for asylum, because we perceive it to be under strong pressure. Yes, there are many parties in this room, unfortunately, that have been asked to renegotiate the refugee convention – many parties I had not expected from have been involved in it. You might say in retrospect that you're going to reinforce it, but we're in a world where I don't think you'll find another international partner who wants to be a part of it. Thinking about entering into and renegotiating the refugee convention in a situation that we are in now is a chance game with it – as I said in my introduction – the fundamental and most important right a human being can have, namely to get out of an area where life is threatened, and into an area where you can be safe that no one will kill or torture you. It is a serious back ground for this proposal that the Left and the SV promote, to get asylum law into the Constitution. We believe that this is necessary. Norway is in a depressed and difficult situation — yes, we are, it is difficult when there are many people on the run in the world. It will be difficult for European countries to cope well; it is difficult for Norway to cope well, but it is a commitment that we have made, and it must not be as exposed to the weather as it has been in recent times. Then I'm afraid it's not worth anything. The most important right we can have, the right to save our lives, must enter the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e378	I take the floor to express my personal support for the proposal promoted by Karin Andersen here now, and I will work to ensure that the Labour Party will also support such a proposal. It is part of the story that when we had the big round of voting on all the Constitutional proposals in connection with the anniversary, this was the question. The Labour Party supported it that time, but it fell, unfortunately. In addition to all the good arguments presented by the representative Andersen for this proposal, I would just like to add that this is a central point of democracy, namely humanism. A democracy that is unable to show humanism to humans is not a real democracy. The fact that we have to be a state based on democracy and humanism, everyone agrees, but it is put to the test on many occasions, and one of these is what the representative Karin Andersen describes here now. We're going to, as they say, slide into a situation where this is going to be an institute -- as it's called. The Asylum Institute, and the right to apply for asylum, will continue to be tested. Unfortunately, we are also in the midst of political development on our continent – which is, of course, the continent of democracy, Europe – where political flows will build walls and build nation states that isolate, in many ways, and make it very difficult to be refugees. What these forces don't care about – because they don't care about it at all – but what we who belong to another political culture should care about, is that this is finally going to happen to ourselves, because with an anti-humanist attitude also to the right of asylum, there will gradually be so much tension on our continent that it will be a completely unmanageable situation. Hopefully attaching such a right to the constitution in Norway will be a right step in a different direction, and it is desirable that Norway keep the tab high in terms of humanism and democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e387	No more have asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e395	Food Earth is an important natural resource that we need to protect for future generations, and I believe there is a need for stronger protection than today. I am therefore delighted to be part of a proposal to amend Section 112 of the Constitution, so that the food resources can be secured under the law. In a world where the population is growing and where climate change in many areas leads to more difficult conditions for agriculture, we are dependent on keeping the most arable land. This is also important in terms of preparedness. Norway is among the countries in the world that have the least food soil per capita, in fact, is less than 3pst. of the total area under cultivation in Norway. Over the past 50 years, more than 1 million Decar have been re-dispatched for purposes other than food production. The fact that the food soil is such an important, but nevertheless limited, national resource means that something has to be done. We need to keep as much food as possible to achieve the goal of increasing Norwegian food production. At the same time, Norway has very little crop reserves on the best areas suitable for the cultivation of cereals. It's just about 1.3 pst. of the total area here in the country suitable for the cultivation of cereals. Over many years, we have seen that there is a strong pressure on food resources. Most cities and agglomerations in Norway with population growth are surrounded by cultivated land. Much of the best soil is where the expansion press is the largest. Combined with the desire to maximise the overall development of existing cities and agglomerations, it creates challenges in the management of soil resources for the future. Soil protection is strong among most of the Nordics. A survey carried out by the Agriculture Investigation Office and Responses for the Farmers’ Team in 2011 showed that 86 pst. believes it is very important or quite important to take care of the food soil, and 46 pst. wishes for a stronger protection. In spite of this, the statistics for 2015 from the SSB show that 12 600 decares were still re-disposaled for non-agricultural purposes — distributed over 6 300 decares of cultivated land and 6 300 arable land. In the autumn of 2015, the Storting adopted an ambitious soil protection strategy with concrete objectives and measures. The size of the plot gathered to set annual cropland re-disposal targets at 4000 deches by 2020. The right-hand Party Government proposed to compare the continuation of the current 6 000 dekar target. In order to achieve these objectives, the government was challenged by an overall increase in supply in a number of areas. Among other things, the revised national budget for 2016 would provide positive instruments to municipalities that would facilitate the avoidance of the development of cultivated land. But the government didn't deliver. A schooling and action programme for local politicians in Norwegian municipalities was also to be established during 2016 for the conservation of cultivated and arable land. Neither did the government in that area. The Storting also asked the government to determine whether the county municipality should have a greater role in the planning work related to soil protection, and to consider an extended reporting obligation for the municipalities of the County of County in the event of the re-disposal of cultivated land, and return to Stortinget with proposals during 2016. On the point after point, we lack follow-up from the government, and therefore, in connection with last year's agricultural settlement, it was a majority in the Stortinget that concluded that the strategy had not been sufficiently followed up by the government. And when the proposal for a new planning and building law came to Stortinget in winter, there was a proposal that would have weakened soil protection. The size had to take hold and wanted the protection of the soil to be incorporated into the law. Thereafter, soil protection should also be taken into account in the law when granting exemptions to municipalities. The government argued on its side with simplification. The ambitious goal of the Storting and the demand for a strong soil protection seemed to be forgotten. We also see that the concession law is under pressure. In my view, the Concession Act, with the obligation to live and work, is an important piece to keep the food soil in claim for future generations. With the Right and Advance Party in government, the food soil has not received sufficient protection. I am therefore pleased that representatives from several parties, SV, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, are in agreement with the representatives of the Labour Party on this proposal. In concrete terms, it is proposed to modify the wording of Section 112 of the Constitution so that the protection of food resources is specifically mentioned in the paragraph. The following new wording shall be added: ‘The resources of nature, including food resources, shall be made available on a long-term and comprehensive basis to ensure this right also for the offspring.’ In my view, a fundamental law on the protection of the food soil will be an important contribution to securing the food soil for future generations, and in order for us to be able to produce more food here in the country in the future, in line with what our objectives are.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e426	Several have not asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e434	As it was referred to by the President now, the Storting should be able to join only by the positive intonation, for who is well opposed to strong interference with the citizens? But it requires a little reason why we want this to be incorporated into the Constitution. By then I mean the representatives Erik Skutle, Gunnar Gundersen, Bente Stein Mathisen and Heidi Nordby Lunde in addition to myself. The change we see for ourselves is to amend the Basic Law § 98 as follows: ‘No law, regulation or decision shall intervene in the sphere of freedom of a citizen if the intervention is disproportionate. In assessing what is disproportionate, consideration shall be given to the individual’s disadvantage weighed against the benefits that justify the intervention. Consideration shall be given to the appropriateness of the intervention, where necessary, and to the existence of less interventional instruments to achieve equivalent benefit.’;» In the theory of law, it is sometimes claimed that there is already a so-called proportionality principle when discussing which boundaries must be set for the State in order to protect a core area of the freedom of citizens from unfair interference. A modern, complex society needs regulations that also intervene in our lives, in the sphere of individual freedom. The desire for social regulation often conflicts with personal freedom of action. In the case of Norwegian administrative law in particular, there have been differences of views as to whether such a principle exists or whether it is a collective concept which includes references to different legal bases which have the same meaning as protecting citizens when the State goes too far. The proposers point out that our legal development is influenced by other external legal formations such as the development of international law, human rights and EU law, all of which have gradually been given a growing place in the Norwegian legal source image. In those areas where EU law is implemented directly through the EEA Agreement, there is no doubt about this either, but also in other areas it will be possible to see the impact. The proposers believe that there is a need to clarify a principle of proportionality as a recognised principle of law by providing it with an explicit basis as a fundamental rule of law in our constitution. This means that a requirement for proportionality not only becomes a requirement for the content of administrative decisions but also becomes an overall norm for the protection of individual citizens in all public regulation production that interferes with the freedom of action of citizens, whether called law or regulation. The proposers also point to the following examples of the fact that in some fields developments have made the need for such an overall restriction on the exercise of public power more relevant than before: the imposition of administrative penalties and the increased use of powers legislation. Firstly, we can see that the administrative penalties imposed have increased enormously. That is to say, sanctions to prevent or counteract the behaviour of individuals or legal persons are imposed by administrative decisions and by a threat of punishment. It is the intention of the proposers of the proposal to require substantive quality assurance which results in decisions disproportionately affecting the citizens and legal persons affected by burdensome acts. At the same time, it will be easier to counter-regulate from the perspective of citizens even when the rules are designed. In particular, it is that part of the proportionality assessment that it is the relevant public authority that is responsible for ensuring that the sub-requirements for proportionality are met or fulfilled. Here, key assessment themes will be first of all whether the action is a disproportionate burden on individuals assessed against the importance of societal targeting, resulting in an indisputable and tangible profit. Secondly, whether the measure is appropriate to the objectives justifying it. Thirdly, whether the measure is necessary to achieve the objectives justifying the intervention, or whether there are alternative instruments, perhaps a little more expensive, but which are at least less invasive than the ones chosen. A fundamental rule of law on proportionality will strengthen the perspective of citizens in the preparation of necessary but comprehensive social regulation. At the same time, this will be a norm for testing that the intervention has been made as gentle to the individual as possible in relation to the social benefits. The proposers refer to the fact that only regulations are laid down in the Council of State within the practical scope of control of the Storting, as they form part of the minutes of the Council of State and are therefore available as part of the review of the State Council Protocols by the Supervisory Committee. However, only a small proportion of the regulations are thus laid down. In particular, the control of legislative activities under the radar is subject to the rules laid down by the Ministry by means of delegated powers. The proposers do not regard the proposed constitutional provision as a definitive response to the shortcomings of parliamentary control by delegated legislative powers which are increasingly taking place outside the central administration. The proposal will, however, remedy that part of the administrative decisions targeting individuals in two ways: the protection against disproportionate outbursts of administrative power resulting in disproportionate intervention will be reinforced in concrete terms, while a disproportionate standard will impose greater care on the administration in the design of new legislation. We have to remember that today, nine out of ten decisions on the application of law are taken not by the courts, but by the administration of the state and the municipality, while the last tenth, as mentioned above, are cases before the courts. A expressed principle of proportionality could facilitate the verification of the management’s delegated legislative competence in addition to the individual decisions, for the very reason that they create freedom of individual spheres of freedom that cannot be violated.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e469	Several have not asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e477	There is a draft constitution tabled by Mr Lundtägen, Mr Skutle and myself. And there is a change and linguistic clarification of the provision on the right of appeal of the courts. The current constitutional law on judicial review was adopted here in Stortinget as late as 1 June 2015. The provision reads as follows: ‘In cases before the courts, the courts shall have the right and the obligation to review whether laws, regulations or other decisions of the authorities of the State are contrary to the Constitution.’ The proposal to include such a provision in the text of the Basic Law was first promoted as part of the human rights catalogue, the so-called new part E in the context of the constitutional review in 2014, but was postponed and brought up again in connection with the celebration of the anniversary of the Supreme Court, we celebrated the 200th anniversary of spring 2015. The intention of the proposal is not to introduce anything new into our constitutional law, but to express the rules that had been developed as constitutional customary law, even in the case of judicial control of laws and administrative decisions, a legal practice that had grown through a consistent practice for nearly 150 years. Accordingly, the attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee contained important comments on how the new provision was to be interpreted in order to fulfil the objective of codifying, i.e. writing on paper, a system that had already been practised for many years. On some points, this provided clarifications that were necessary to avoid that the provision could provide the basis for a new and divergent interpretation and practice that the Storting had not foreseen. The present proposal to amend the text of Section 89 is without prejudice to what has been the principle of judicial control of the Grand Duchy and which was intended to be expressed in the text of the Constitution. Furthermore, in accordance with the objective of legislating the established system, the proposal does not seek to change the substantive scope of the provision. The purpose is only to enable the aggregation to be selected in September 2017 to improve the wording of the paragraph in accordance with its intended content of opinion. Such an amendment may be justified in the first instance on the basis of a request that the text of the Basic Law be read as far as possible by all in such a way as to give the best possible expression of the central content of the fundamental law. As an expression of this system of judicial control, which it aims to legislate, today's wordings of the Constitution § 89 have several weaknesses, partly because of what is actually said, but also because of important aspects of the system that have not been expressed. This is unfortunate because the basic text thus does not provide the reader with adequate guidance on its ‘real’ meaning. The desire for better consistency between wording and real content is in itself sufficient to justify the proposed constitutional amendment. However, at a single point called ‘abstract control’ by law, the proposal could also be justified by a desire to avoid that the formulations adopted in June 2015 could serve as a basis for developing judicial control in a direction alien to the Norwegian legal tradition and to the relationship between courts and current policies. The alternative suggestions, which are contained in the booklet in variants from A to H, and which I will not extend the article by going into detail, will in various ways correct the main ambiguities in relation to today's text. Firstly, the proposals will clarify that it is not the law as such that is the subject of judicial review, as the wording could now open up or suggest. Such ‘abstract control’ is a typical feature of specialised constitutional courts, which are currently found in many other countries within and outside Europe. The Norwegian judicial system has always focused on the application of the law in each case. That is what is called ‘concrete control’, and it is doubtful that this Stortinget was also aimed at when the Constitutional Law of today’s § 89. It also complies with the corresponding provision in Sweden, for example: The cap of the form of government. 11 § 14, which has also served explicitly as an example of the provision. Secondly, the proposals will make it clear that judicial control of administration not only concerns the respect of the Constitution by the government and the administrative apparatus, but also includes the administrative commitment to the law, that is what is called legality control. In practice, law enforcement is far more important than judicial control of the retention of the administrative apparatus within the boundaries of the Constitution. This in itself suggests that the provision should be amended as soon as practicable. The Courts shall also verify that subordinate administrative bodies remain within the framework of regulations, etc. as determined by the parent body. However, on the basis of the wish for a short and simple constitutional text, the proposals are closely related to judicial review of the legality of the administration. The monitoring of overall regulations, etc. are respected, can easily be interpreted into the concept of law, «law of the country», understood as binding rules of law outside the Constitution itself. Thirdly, the proposals will clarify that the control concerns not only decisions of the ‘State authorities’ but also all decisions taken in the exercise of public authority. You can imagine here that municipal decisions too are ultimately derived from state power. That control includes both municipalities, etc. and private organisations, etc. which exercise public authority by virtue of law is doubtful already today. The best thing would be if this important side of the system were also expressed in the text of the Constitution. If it is one of the options that the proposers wish to highlight as particularly suitable for solving these problems as mentioned, the first option, A, but to some extent also option B, which will satisfy the above needs and also clarify that judicial control covers all decisions that may represent breaches of the Constitution or the laws of the country – not only decisions taken by the «State authorities», which are the text of the present day, or in the exercise of public authority, which are the other proposals. It would therefore be better for the courts to ensure that the provisions of fundamental law which must be interpreted in such a way as to restrict the freedom of action of individuals are respected when the case before them makes it necessary. A well-known example is the limits imposed by Section 100 of the Basic Law on the right of both public and private employers to restrict the freedom of expression of employees. The simplest option, A, thus covers all the mentioned needs for a more comprehensive, and, in a sense, true, formulation. The other alternatives cover all three of the former needs for constitutional change. It will also be possible for those representatives who want to be as close to today's wording as possible to draw up the previous wording on the law and duty of the courts, so that this view can also be taken into account. But we believe, as I said, that this clarification would be a win for the Constitution, its legibility and its application.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e508	Several have not asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e516	This proposal, contained in Document 12 as a draft law 36, was promoted by the representatives of Svein Flechten, Bente Stein Mathisen, Nils Aage Igstad and signed, and it is, as the President referred to, a new third paragraph of the Constitution § 95 that the State should not be able to tax and levy legal services for cases to be decided by the courts. The proposers believe that the fundamental law revision in 2014 did not adequately consider the reason behind the original provision when writing the previous provision in Section 98 of the Basic Law, the principle that the State should not charge access to legal aid. Firstly, the aim of the proposal is that people do not have to pay VAT on legal fees, i.e. a fee on fees. However, they should also not risk having to pay VAT on the salaries of lawyers when these are payments for services provided by lawyers in connection with legal proceedings. A person who addresses a lawyer and asks for the lawyer's assistance to promote e.g. a claim for compensation, must pay the lawyer a fee which today entails a supplement of 25 p.m. VAT. The proposers do not consider it reasonable for the State to serve on this state-owned activity as the legal basis, and in addition, the proposers seem to be looking up to the counterparty if that counterparty is the State. Before the change in 2014, the Constitution stated § 98: ‘With Sportler, paid to the Registrar of the Court of First Instance, no fees to the Treasury should be linked.’ The provision had then remained unchanged in the Constitution since its adoption in 1814. This provision has been proposed several times over time, but the Storting has been reluctant to adopt changes. This can be seen in the context of the then Norwegian Constitutional Conservatism, which produced many results, both in terms of change practices and in terms of interpretation. A more bold interpretation is that the scope of the provision is gradually not understood because of language difficulties. But it was a desire to keep the historical lines back to 1814 and keep visible evidence of the Constitutional Law's age in the Constitution. This consideration is no longer present, but in terms of content, the protection against the charging of legal services was already promoted in the Adler-Falsen Constitutional Draft, which in Section 152 had a provision that read as follows: ‘Since justice should be administered without payment, proposals should be made as soon as possible for the abolition of all legal sportsmen.’ The history of that provision shows that it should promote legal certainty. It was the freedom of citizens and the right to fair justice that was behind the provision. In addition, it was based on the fact that the State would not benefit from the law. The changes in the way of expression that occurred during the preparation must be seen as an attempt to express correctly what should be meant. Sportler was the remuneration for the provision of legal services. These services were carried out by the Officer of the Court of Justice. After the use of the language of the day, judges and prosecutors — as we would call them today, lawyers and lawyers — heard of these. When the Sports Regulations were repealed by the Act of 13 September 1830, the new law contained primarily provisions on the rights of sportsmen of the sorenners. The Soren writers were mentioned first in the law, and soon another impression of the provision in Section 98 would become attached. The provision was given the name ‘sorenprinter paragraph’. The justification for the provision was subsequently seen as a protection of the income of the authors of the soren, and with that also the independence of the judges. It is possible that this was also the idea behind the provision when it was given, but it has hardly been the primary reason for the rule. Its background in the French constitution of 1790 and the way to its final design in the 17th May basic law clearly show that it was desirable that the State should not, at its taxes and taxes, distort the legal framework. The principle of free administration of justice was formulated in a concrete and practical way, in line with the pragmatic approach of the owner-volls to basic legislation. However, this would soon lead to the loss of practical significance of the provision. When the Stortinget lifted the provision in 2014, the reason was that it had only historical interest. It was put in context with the principle of the autonomy of the courts and was considered unnecessary as this principle was to be expressed more clearly in a new provision. You can read more about this in Document No. 16 for 2011-2012, p. 118-119, and in Innst. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day 21st Last@item: inlistbox The fact that the principal and imaginative basis of the provision was also that the State was not to serve on the legal basis was not problematic during the work on the considerable amount of changes that took place in the context of the 2014 anniversary. The fact that legal services are currently generally subject to VAT has been addressed by the Law Association, but this has not led to any changes in the tax legislation. The Ombudsman raised the question on his own initiative, as he did. can look at the Ombudsman’s annual report over time. This means that legal services are generally charged a fee of 25 pst. For the ordinary woman and man will have an addition of 25 pst. for what is paid to the lawyer, be a significant financial burden. For the lawyer, who can subtract this amount from his business, this doesn't mean anything. However, there is also an unreasonable disparity between business clients who can deduct legal expenses and thus reduce the basis for their taxation, and those individuals who pay the levy of already taxed funds to ensure that their case is brought to an end. Now that the old provision on athletes has been repealed, there is still a question of whether non-free access to justice is part of the Constitution's spirit and principles, cf. Article 121 of the Constitution. Paragraph 98 referred to its role model in the French Constitution of 1791, and after that, the court should be free of charge. Today, Section 95 of the Basic Law states: ‘Every person has the right to have his or her case decided by an independent and impartial court within a reasonable period of time. The procedure shall be fair and public.’;» But, in the opinion of the proposers, it is not fair and not fair for the state to impose a tax of 25 pst. on the part of the general woman and of the man shall pay to his lawyer in a dispute dealt with by the courts. This means that the state is now serving in court and thus making it harder and harder for the ordinary citizen to have access to the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e557	Several have not asked for the floor for a draft Constitutional Law 36.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e564	On behalf of the representative Ulf Leirstein and the undersigned, I am pleased to present the proposal, which is important in principle. I am also looking forward to further debate later. The time is ripe for the people to gain greater power, greater participation and influence over democracy in Norway. This is why the Progress Party is promoting a constitutional proposal that will enable important issues to be resolved through a referendum. It is important and right that politicians listen to the people more than they do today. If the people do not feel that politics is directly related to them, this will have great consequences for democracy as such. We have already seen popular settlements because the politicians have moved too far from the people – both in the Brexit and in the US presidential elections. The Progress Party believes it is high time that the people gained greater influence over Norwegian policy. The need for referendums is particularly great if new issues arise in the middle of a parliamentary term. There may be issues that no batch has mentioned in its batch programmes and that the voters have therefore not had the opportunity to influence at all – there are simply no parties to vote on who have taken a decision on this new issue. In such a situation, the representatives of the people have not been given the necessary mandate by the voters to implement a change. It is particularly important that the people are given the opportunity to participate in democracy through a direct and binding referendum. It is true that the Storting can already decide that there will be an advisory referendum on any question. However, these referenda are not binding, which the Progress Party believes is fundamentally wrong. If the people made a decision through a referendum, it would be directly undemocratic if the politicians nevertheless ignored the outcome of the referendum. Another problem is that referendums according to today's rules require a majority of the representatives of bigots to support the decision in a referendum. This means that the referendum option is virtually blocked, with the EU case being the only exception. If the referendum is to have any practical significance as a corrective factor for representative democracy, a minority must therefore be able to demand a referendum. In this way, the referendum institute becomes a real democratisation, while the initiative in the process remains with the people's representatives. The draft Constitutional Law states that one third of the representatives of the Storting should be able to require, within a certain period, that certain decisions of the Stortinge should be put to a referendum. If there is a majority against the decision, the proposal shall be rejected. The outcome of the referendum will be binding. In other words, it is not a question of giving the people a right to demand that certain matters be taken up for a referendum, so-called a popular initiative, but of a right for a minority in the United Kingdom to ask the people to be consulted about proposals that have already been adopted, and then in the hope that the decision will be reversed. Of course, the proposal contains a number of limitations, including: related to State budget decisions. However, the proposal is not intended to be closed in order to allow the Storting to carry out referendums through general decisions in those areas where the Storing considers this appropriate, by a majority of the Storing. Norway has an indirect democracy by choosing representatives to make decisions in elected bodies. This applies to local government, county councils and the Stortinget. Direct democracy is a democratic form of government in which the people directly have the right to participate in taking decisions without working within the framework of a representative board. An indirect democracy, as we have in Norway, is a good system, but democracy will be strengthened by several elements of direct democracy through referenda on major issues. This will create a high level of involvement in the population and allow everyone to retain or reject a decision on a roll-out. Switzerland has a form of direct democracy with frequent referenda. You can have a different view of how it works in the first place, and a challenge with the Swiss model is that Parliament and the government thus have less power. The advantage is that the inhabitants in return get more power. The proposal we are promoting here today is based on the Danish model, which is a milder form, but which can also be said to have been sensible and good. Six nationwide national referendums have been held in Norway. The first two in 1905 on governance and the Union resolution, then in 1919, where the referendum imposed a ban on spirits, and in 1926, when the same ban was lifted. And then we have the last two on the European Community and the European Union in 1972 and 1994. The fact that the people are told their opinion directly in major matters through a referendum rather than only through indirect elected representatives is about strengthening democracy, and we are legitimizing our governance further. We politicians should not forget that we sit as the people's representatives, and we politicians should therefore not be afraid to listen to the opinion of the people and follow the people's opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e587	I'll give you a brief presentation of Constitutional Law 43, presented by Kjersti Toppe and signed. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The following new second paragraph is added to Section 49: By means of a referendum, the people can set aside new legislative acts and decisions on Norway's accession to the Treaties. Such a referendum shall be held if required by at least 100000 citizens. The referendum shall be valid if at least 40 per cent of those entitled to vote have voted. Paragraph 49, second paragraph, becomes the third paragraph.’ New legislative acts and decisions on accession to the Treaties may be set aside by a majority in such a referendum. So this doesn't apply to economic issues, for example. Only legislative acts and decisions on Norway’s accession to the Treaties shall apply. This is a proposal for a subsequent corrective referendum to set aside new legislative acts and decisions on Norway's accession to the Treaties, i.e. a proposal different from that promoted by Åslaug Haga and Marit Arnstad, which were discussed at the Innst. S. No 112 for 2007-2008. We're pointing out that the purpose is to give people a safety valve in case the majority of the population is indifferent. This is in line with the principle of popular sovereignty. It repairs the situations in which the party system triggers parliamentary errors by means of the partisan. For example, the big parties are trumped by a decision in spite of the absence of a majority of people in favour of the proposal, so that it would not be decided whether the representatives of the magistrates were released. The subsequent referendum will show whether the decision of the Storting gave a true picture of popular opinion or not. In order to require the implementation of a referendum, at least 100,000 citizens have to demand it, i.e. a people's initiative. The referendum is valid if at least 40 pst. by the voting rights. These are very strict demands, because there has to be a movement of people behind the requirement, as we have formulated it. If there is a majority in the referendum, the decisions shall be set aside. It's inspired by the Swiss system. It is based on Norwegian circumstances and, as I said, there are high demands for participation in order to promote such a referendum, which should therefore be able to set aside new legislative decisions and decisions on Norway's accession to the Treaties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e615	First of all, I intend to comment on the draft constitution that I myself have promoted together with the representative Erlend Wiborg, but I also want to say that I think it is exciting thoughts the representatives of the Centre Party, Lundtigen and Toppe, put forward in their proposal. That we can get real discussions in the Storting related to increased use of referendums is something I welcome. I think it is healthy for democracy that we take that kind of debate also linked to the Constitution. Democracy means rule of the people, and it is therefore natural with a safety valve that allows the people to make the final decision in bigger matters. There are good examples of rich and well-functioning democracies that allow citizens to participate directly in democracy through referendums. One example is Switzerland, as both previous representatives mentioned in their contributions. From 1848 to the end of 2004, 531 federal referendums were held in Switzerland, and regular referendums on important social issues are still held. It is such in that system that a certain proportion of the population may demand that matters be brought before the referendum, which Parliament must then follow up. It's a direct democracy, which works, which has sat down, and which has been tested for many years in Switzerland. To believe that we can do the same in Norway overnight, I have no faith in. I think, of course, that we have to go a little bit more cautiously, but at least we have a slightly larger opening to start with more referendums through the Constitution than just the six times we've had, as the representative Wiborg said. I think it's a good idea that we can go some further. It also adds up to the Constitutional Bill. Giving the people more power can be felt carelessly by some politicians. I constantly hear in debates that many people believe that since you've gained that trust through elections, you can do almost anything you want. That's not how you should think about the voters. People should be viewed as their masters and not as their servants. For many years the Progress Party has been concerned that we should have a more direct democracy. It also means allowing for a greater degree of referendums. We politicians are for the people. It shouldn't be the other way around, and we shouldn't be afraid to give the people more power. The proposal presented by the representative Wiborg and signed is based on Section 42 of the Danish Constitution. In other words, the proposal is based on an established and well-tested practice, and that is good experience with the Danish provision in our neighbouring country. The paragraph is assumed to be of great indirect importance, as the negotiating climate between different parties and politicians will constantly ensure that they have in mind that a minority can promote a case for the people to judge in a referendum. This creates better processes and constantly reminds the politicians in Denmark of the importance of caring for the interests of the people. A system proposed in this proposal will also stimulate the interest in policy and social governance, as it will allow individual choices to be directly involved in decision-making – including between choices. We have recently seen that both journalists and politicians have declining confidence in the population. It is a challenge we should take seriously. In the long term, we think that the proposal we are promoting could affect legitimacy and the ability to maintain a functioning democracy. In other words, it is high time for a democracy reform, a reform that puts the people – and not the politicians – at the centre. The size has already seen the importance of referenda on local issues in the municipalities, and I am pleased that we legislated the right to local referendums in 2009. Now it is time to take the next step in the democratisation process and ensure that the people get greater rights also nationally, by legislating a right to binding referenda in the Norwegian Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e634	Just about what you're called in the community otherwise, to correct a manifest misunderstanding: After all, the Danish system was presented as having a very low threshold to bring things to a referendum, while in reality it is talking about a very high threshold to change the Constitution. They have a change clause in Denmark that requires an even greater majority in the Folketing to change the Constitution. A five-sixth majority is required. In other words, if you don't pattern the great, qualified, majority to change the Constitution, it will have to pass on to Christiansborg, to a confirmatory referendum. It's really about several obstacles that are built up to change the Constitution. It can therefore rather be used as an argument for further provisions against doing unraveled things with the Constitution. So the changes take place in an interaction with the parliamentary, while this was presented as if it were a minority prerogative, where one could go to the people and almost present whatever one might want as an appeal body. It was just to prevent this impression of Danish state law from attaching itself, I took this post.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e644	Several have not asked for the floor for the draft Constitutional Laws 14 and 43.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e651	This constitutional proposal is intended to give 16-year-olds the right to vote. Giving 16-year-olds voting is actually just one thing, and it's making democracy stronger. Democracy is not a passive thing, a department in a museum, but a living, breathing system. Democracy is what we do every day. There are democracies that break down because you don't manage them properly. It is democracies that are at risk in these days, even in countries that are not so far from Norway. But there are also democracies that are expanding, that include more people, and that benefit more power. These democracies can become stronger. The very best of democracies is based on trust. In Norway, we have a system that is based largely on this trust and is made possible by a social system that has provided the basis for this trust. That's why I think giving more trust in more is making our country better. That is why the age of voting should be reduced. In Norway, we have strengthened democracy every time we have lowered the age of voting. In retrospect, it all says in itself. Everyone will agree that democracy in Norway became more real when women competed for voting in 1913. And today it sounds strange with a 21-year-old voting age, but it's not that long since we had it. Austria has taken a full step and introduced a 16-year age of voting rights. They're obviously never going to raise their voting age again. No one proposed to reintroduce such schemes in Norway either when we went to the age of 18. As democracy expands, the number of people in our society who can actively participate and influence, who must be actively involved and take responsibility. It enhances the strength of the decisions taken, the legitimacy of the decisions taken, and the quality of the decisions taken, making it necessary for more people to take responsibility and feel ownership of the policy. So, of course, there are many objections to such a change. One of them is that voting rights should and must follow the age of authority. That's right, but I don't know if I think it's a very important principle, and that's for two reasons: First of all, it's not like this today, fortunately. The threshold for excluding any voting rights is very high in Norway. This means, for example: that unauthorised persons often have voting rights in Norway, so it is not that powers and voting rights are inextricably aligned today either. Secondly, when one is authoritative, one is completely responsible for himself. But even today, young people have rights and obligations even if they are not authoritative. The obligations to understand and obey the law from them are 15 years old. From the age of 16, they have the right to have sex, 16-year-olds have the right to choose their own education, and not least they have the right to choose their own political stance. The right to influence the rule and laws of the country should also be granted to 16-year-olds, who during the year they turn 16, also complete their compulsory education – what we believe is the least they have to learn. Giving the right to vote is giving trust and responsibility. I have no doubt that our young people will manage that trust well. Some point, as I said, to the difference between the age of authority and the age of voting as a problem, but also today we operate with age limits that in some cases are above the age of authority, without there being any problem for that reason. We as society will benefit from many more being given their vote in elections. It is likely to increase the turnout among the generations previously introduced to representative and active democracy. It could give more commitment and greater ownership to politics. This provides the basis for even a little more trust in Norwegian democracy and, consequently, for a better democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e678	I also agree to present this proposal, and I can join the post from the representative of the Serigstad Valen. I would also like to add a few comments that I think Stortinget should bring with him in the further processing, and that Norwegian voters should also bring with them when they are going to vote in the autumn, at least those who are allowed to vote today. On 8 February, Minister of State Jan Tore Sanner opened up a possibility to have another test project with the right to vote for 16-year-olds, which will come after the test project we had in 2015, which in turn came after the test project we had in 2011. In other words, this is not a new issue. On the contrary, a number of 16 and 17-year-olds have been able to vote in the last two local elections, and then I think it's useful to look at the experience from there, when we're now going to discuss whether this should be something that should apply to all choices. Experience, as evaluated by the Institute for Social Research, is essentially positive – not to say merely. Perhaps the most important thing is that voting is high among the 16- and 17-year-olds who have had the opportunity to vote. In 2015 it is close to the normal electoral process among all age groups, which then amounts to 60.2 pst. The 16- and 17-year-olds voted in 57 p.m. of cases. If we compare it to the other first-time voters, 18 and 19 years old, they were 44.8 pst. So the 16- and 17-year-olds who were able to vote were about 15 percentage points higher in polling than other first-time voters. How do you justify it? Well, there's a reason for the so-called life cycle effect, as one calls it, that those who are in a life situation where they live where they've been bidding for a long time, are still in school and live with their families, are more involved and see the benefit of being informed about important questions in the election campaign, as opposed to those who like to be in a break-up phase. those two and three years older. We also see from the experience that the 16- and 17-year-olds' preferences are relatively similar to the people's preferences when it comes to party selection. Whether it's positive or negative, one can of course discuss, but at least it should mean that there's no significant difference in how one thinks here, whether one is more mature, etc. other selectors. Another very happy effect is that one has had several young elected representatives in the many municipalities that have been allowed to try this. In 2011, it was mainly due to the fact that there were several young people elected. In 2015, experience showed that nominations, i.e. the lists in those municipalities, led to younger populaces. Those who are most under-represented in elected assemblies, including this one, are the youngest and the oldest voters, and the fact that one can now correct one of them by getting more young people to attend – at least the experience indicates it – is very positive. In addition, this is what the municipalities want. We've had a number of public hearings about municipal conspiracies. Of the 215 municipalities that have had it, 167 have included the 16- and 17-year-olds when they have carried out deportation. In the last attempt at local elections, there were well over 100 municipalities seeking to be test municipalities. I think that the commitment of 16 and 17-year-olds to participate in local elections and popular demonstrations, there are also many that I think should apply in the case of big shots. At least I and the other proposers do. My point is that after several rounds, I think we know a lot – yes, I want to say that we know enough about how the 16- and 17-year-olds act when they vote, that they know their responsibilities and use their voting rights, and that it means that a person now makes this a permanent arrangement in all elections. Now both I and Snorre Serigstad Valen have argued for why this should be so, but I also believe that on the issue of voting age, it is actually those who will refuse to vote, who have a duty to provide evidence. The starting point must be that as many people as possible have the right to vote, and rather give a specific reason for an age group, for example. is not mature enough to be able to take that responsibility. But I think that experience shows that in that case it's not a good argument. On the contrary, the 16- and 17-year-olds in the country have shown that they know their responsibility, and that they should also have the opportunity to participate and vote when we are eventually going to have more choices, including decision-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e702	I'm joining both the last two posts, but if a spooler goes back in history and reads the posts that were held here for the extension of voting rights, from different parties, it'll be a hell of a turnout that they've been pretty much the same in the last 150 years – if not more. The left has always been to expand, every single time, whether it's been ladies, 18-year-olds or what it's been, and we're going to make pretty similar posts. But there's one aspect that I think we have to include, and to me it's kind of like a wake-up to brexit voting and to other choices you're looking around us now. Then there is a demographic change both in Norway and in Europe that causes the older part of the population to lose a greater proportion of the votes, and the younger part of the population is an increasingly smaller part of the voting rights. We see that there is a future for these young people and young voters, but many feel that an older part of the population is almost taking away from them the future choices they have. That was a lot of what we saw, for example. After Brexit, many young voters felt that they had been deprived of choice because a much larger proportion of the population are elderly. I'm here because we're also going to have big business representatives who've passed 70. I'm very much in favour of having a big spread. I'm very concerned that older people get involved in politics, but I think it's a big challenge if the younger part becomes a very small part of the population base that has the right to vote in a country. So what are the assumptions for taking that kind of position? I used to say that when we implemented the voting rights of 18-year-olds in the valley I came from, namely Namdalen, it was about. 20 who took a degree in artium, throughout the Namdalen, with a population base relatively similar to that of today. Today, 1,000–1,200 attend secondary school in Namdalen. It says something about how incredibly much the level of knowledge and education have increased since we introduced voting rights for 18-year-olds. If you take the 20 who took the artium when you introduced the 18-year-old voting rights, and compare it to the 20 best who go to high school in Namdalen today, there's a sea of knowledge in between. We've really been involved in lifting more generations through our school system. All citizens have much longer education, and a 16-year-old today can do much more than a 16-year-old could when we introduced voting rights for 18-year-olds. My claim is that a 16-year-old today knows more about society around him and has more general knowledge than an 18-year-old had when we introduced 18-year-old voting rights. We've been involved in raising our youth, but now we also have to give them the opportunity to influence society around them, and we actually have a job to do to drag them into the design of society. We know that the group between the ages of 16 and 18 might be the group most affected by decisions made in this room. Your development as a human being is very dependent on the decisions made in this room, and I think it is fundamentally unreasonable that they do not have the opportunity to influence those decisions. I've been following Young Left from my time in Young Left and to this day. There are some big differences. One of the biggest differences is that when I was involved in youth policy, I was 19 to 22 years old. Those who are involved in youth policy for the Young Left today are from 13 to 16 years of age. We have people in summer camp who are 13 years old. Youth party members have become much younger and engage many younger participants in their work. There is also a signal to us here in the United Kingdom that we should go with even more of them as active citizens of our democracy. There are certainly arguments that are quite similar to those that were when we extended the voting rights to women, or 18-year-olds, or the general voting rights – or whatever it was – but the Left is always going to be on the side of enlargement, and so are we here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e719	No more have asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e726	I want to present the Constitutional Bill 8, on new Section 113(a), on restrictions on the fundamental rights. I don't do that because I want to limit the fundamental rights, but because they're already being weighed against each other, and I want to give people – through politics and elections – and not just the juse's ability to control this weighting. This proposal was made for the first time in the previous period, as part of the Human Rights Committee's proposal on the fundamental law-making of human rights. The proposal fell, but it is now being promoted again by the deposit representatives Gunvor Eldegard, Tom E. B. Holthe, Martin Kolberg and myself. The proposal is now based, as at the time, on the human rights committee's proposal to restrict rights under specific conditions. The point of creating this access is for Stortingen to be able to adopt restrictions that will apply to both several existing rights and most that entered the previous period, but with clear exceptions. The Constitution needs rules that regulate the scope of, or conditions for, restrictions under the Constitution. This is not about regulating the extent of the Constitution, but it is about taking control when it is allowed to deviate from it and when it is not. The paragraphs adopted in connection with the phase-in of the human rights catalogue in 2014 are now formulated as absolute and without exception. In other words, all the human rights we included in the extension of the Constitution in 2014 are without exception, and all the restrictions must be adopted separately. This means that when they are to be weighed up against each other, it is entirely up to the Supreme Court to take that assessment. It is in the nature of most fundamental rights that, in certain cases, they must be weighed against each other or against other important social interests. Over 200 years, this has been interpreted in practice. The proposal of the Human Rights Committee is to give that right back to Stortinget through a separate paragraph, with the exception of criteria. The exemption criteria are inspired by the EMC, the European Convention on Human Rights and other Treaties. As proposers, we believe that a new § 113a must be understood as a guideline before the Court, i.e. that politicians give the Court a guideline on how the law of the Storting should be interpreted against the Constitution. The provisions bind the Court of Justice by saying that the Storting may by law intervene and regulate constitutional rights, but only under certain conditions. The size must and must respect the core of the rights and the limitations must be proportionate. The difference between whether we adopt this, and not that there is no longer any place where the constraints must be proportionate, that they must respect human rights. As we see it, it is better that the limitations are set out in the Constitution than that they happen only without political constraints. If not, citizens can get the wrong idea of how far the rights actually go and that they never get balanced against each other. The point of the restriction is that it provides the Court and the legislator with an essential interface to balance the need for social regulation of the Grand Duchy through legislation with the legal state's demands for the protection of some fundamental rights. In the light of the laws of the Grand Duchy, the Home of Limitation is primarily a guide to the Court of Justice in interpreting the rights provisions of the Grundgesetz. With this function, a new § 113a also puts a bond in the courts when they consider laws against the boundaries of the Constitution. At present, it is up to the Supreme Court to determine where the limits go. Where the Stortingen has hesitated, the Supreme Court has acted, as Anine Kierulf has formulated it. Judges who have clearly stated that the new rights provisions cannot function according to their purpose without a restraint that balances the protection of rights against the legitimate needs of the Storting. There's something Storting must take seriously. Judges who are judges in the Supreme Court say that the human rights we have adopted here cannot function properly without the balancing interface that we want to provide with a new section 113(a). This is about the fact that, as the founding power, the Storting is involved in drawing up the boundary between the legitimate control activities of the Court of Justice and the political space of the Storting. This limit is too important to be left to the courts alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e749	Others have not asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e757	This proposal is made by Jette F. Christensen, Gunvor Eldegard, Bård Vegar Solhjell, Karin Andersen, Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself, and refers, as it is clear, to a repetition of a proposal that has been discussed earlier, namely that the Constitution should also be adopted in modern bookmaking. The story will be well aware of and remember the debate we had during the previous discussion of the case in 2014, where a constitutional proposal on what is called ‘timely new Norse’ was adopted, but also a proposal that was a so-called modified version of the bookcase, prepared by Finn-Erik Vinje, who was then also adopted. In connection with this proposal, I would like to reiterate an argument that is of great importance to the Authority of the Constitution, and that is that it is easily accessible to the population in general. Now we have a constitution that – I use that expression – limps down linguistically, in the sense that we have time-wise new Norse, but we don't have timebooking. This proposal concerns the timeliness of the Basic Law in the language for both new Norwegian and bookkeeping purposes. It is true that the proposal is based on the report of the Constitutional Commission, which was appointed by the Presidency of the Grand Duchy in September 2012, and the 2012 report contains modernised versions of the individual paragraphs of the Basic Law in both book targets and new Norwegian. In line with the mandate of the sample, the sample stressed that the new constitutional texts should be in the most comprehensible language according to the applicable spelling standards, while not changing the content of the sentence. As I have already said, it was adopted a modern new Norwegian and what can be called a different book destination version, which Finn-Erik Vinje stood for. As a result of the decision to enlarge, the Constitution now consists of two texts which have not been harmonised, and it implies certain linguistic differences and, in some cases, different constructions of paragraphs and paragraphs. The proposers also point out that the provisions of the Human Rights Chapter of the Basic Law are more timely than the other provisions. I would like to say that it is high time that we now also adopt a time-limited book measure, and that the Basic Law comes at a time-to-time book measure as well as a time-to-time new Norwegian one. Finally, I would just like to add that the proposal also involves a change which was discussed to a significant extent in connection with the previous Stortingen reading. It is about the wording ‘to raise loans’, which is now proposed to be replaced by ‘to open loans’ in order to prevent uncertainties about the content of the opinion. There was a significant discussion about it at the previous crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e774	As one of the co-rapporteurs, I just want a brief comment. We who were involved in the amendment of the Constitution when it came to the language, worked under a very heavy time pressure at the end, and I would say that it is almost an accident at work that we have not now received the Basic Law on time books. This was the time when a big discussion about whether you should pay the most attention to the basic law being seen as a national clenodium, or that it should be easily accessible. I think what has happened since we dealt with the question of language in the past is that it has become a clear understanding that it is «easyly accessible» that is now the leading attitude. I would like to say that the time, as the representative Kolberg said, is overly mature for a change, and I would not least say that those who are followers of a strong book measure and a strong book destination tradition in Norway should wake up and make sure that we get the law on time books once we have got it in timely new Norwegian. The last point that the representative of Kolberg raised, ‘to open loans’, is a clarification. It's important that we get the law according to what's the best understanding of tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e783	Others have not asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e790	Constitutional proposal 28 is made by Helga Pedersen, Kirsti Bergstø, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Abid Q. Raja and myself. The proposal is about the rights and position of the group in the Constitution. I would say, before I go into it more specifically, that in the previous round of proceedings this proposal which is now being promoted was unfortunately rejected by the Stortinget. I will make the political statement that this should not happen in the context of the anniversary, because caring for the interests of minorities is an important part of democracy, and we should make it clear in the context of the constitutional change and the constitutional anniversary. We didn't, because there wasn't enough majority here, but now we're repeating this. What are the discussions about this, and what is the nucleus? Today, the rights of the group are enshrined in Section 108, which states that the Sami peoples – I quote that term – have the right to secure and develop their language, culture and social life. This is based in its original form on a proposal from the 1984 Joint Court Committee. Then, as we know, upon request from Sametinget, Professor Carsten Smith, who also led the Samerrecht Committee, presented a legal opinion on the change in Section 108. The background to his work is the Human Rights Committee's report on human rights. In the light of Carsten Smith’s work, In September 2015, Sametinget took a decision asking that a proposal be made in accordance with Section 108 in accordance with recognised language usage and the status of a collective agreement under international law. The proposers therefore agree with the Sameting on the background and the wording of the new text of the proposal of the Sametinget and, on this basis, promote the following proposal for a new wording in Section 108 of our Constitution: ‘It is up to the authorities of the State to facilitate the security and development of the Sami people, such as the indigenous peoples of the country, their language, their culture and their social life.’ What is at the heart of the discussion, which was at the heart of the resistance to previous treatment, was the expression ‘as the indigenous peoples of the country’, and it is linked to the discussions on the rights of couples under international conventions. It is clear to the proposers that the inclusion of the concept of 'ur people' strengthens the rights of all together internationally and nationally. To establish that they are the Norwegian indigenous people, I believe they are right, and the proposers believe that it is right, and that is quite in line with what Carsten Smith thinks. He is probably the leading legal expert and capacity in Norway in this area. He has worked a lot with the same questions and has underlined the need for that particular provision to come in. This is legally important, and I would also like to say politically important, but add that once the Sameting has unanimously adopted this, I will express the hope that the next Stortinget will be able to adopt this provision as it is now proposed, because it will safeguard the legal and political rights of all together in Norway. I hope that it will not prove to be actively necessary, but history has shown in the long run that it is actually very important that the minorities have as solid a protection in the Constitution as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e808	‘The Norwegian State is founded on the territory of two peoples — the North and the Sami. Sami history is closely intertwined with Norwegian history. Today, we have to regret the injustice that the Norwegian State has previously inflicted on the Sami people through a hard research policy." These were the words of King Harald V during the merger opening in 1997. The king's words marked an official excuse from Norway for the policy that the Sami people had been subjected to. Despite this excuse, we still have a way to go as a society before we have taken a given with the treatment that Norway's indigenous people were exposed to. One term of this is to recognise together as a people and indigenous people in the Constitution. This is what today's proposal is about. The proposal is based on Carsten Smith's distribution to the Sameting and the Sameting's appeal to the Storting to follow up the distribution to Carsten Smith. But the road to recognition has been long. In 1958, the Stortinget and the government were certain that Norway would not accede to a convention on indigenous peoples – as it was then called – because he was referring to ‘populations not present in our country’. Later, both the UN and the International Labour Organization, the ILO, were interested in living conditions for the indigenous people, and both began a systematic work on the theme in the 1980s. This helped to legitimize the requirement that indigenous peoples had special rights to keep track of and further develop their culture and their social life. A milestone here was the Martínez Cobo report, which was launched in 1971 and completed in stages from 1981 to 1984. Here to the country was the then Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Thorvald Stoltenberg, also concerned with the theme and stated at the 1978 United Nations Conference on Racism that together was an indigenous population in Norway. The UN began work on a declaration on the rights of the indigenous population in the mid-1980s. The ILO adopted a new Convention on the Rights of the Aborigines in 1989, signed by Norway. In the course of the work, the word "ur people" was replaced by "ur people" in the 1980s. The question of land rights was central to the work of both organisations. The most important thing for the official recognition of the likes of the indigenous peoples of Norway was, however, a national event. Samane was very much recognized as the indigenous population of Norway because of the conflict over the extension of the Alta-Kautokeino watercourse in the transition between the 1970s and the 1980s. For common nords, it became a shock that together still experienced serious discrimination in Norway at that time. In 1984 the Joint Court Committee delivered its first interim report, which highlighted Norway’s international human rights obligations. The report provided the basis for the 1987 Law on Community Law, such as: set up the Sametinget and its own Constitutional Court of 1988, on rights together. Discussions on this topic have continued until today. I would like to stress that if today's proposal is adopted by the Stortinget, it is not the end of a long journey towards recognition, but a very important part of it. We also have a job to do as a nation when it comes to taking a spec with the devices that made the research process possible. I want to show you that SV has put forward a proposal for a special investigation, a truth commission, to go through all of the factors that have shaped the research process towards both the community and other communities that have been affected by it. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to say that the statement that we have to take as a nation is also about a given that we have to take each and every one of us. It's a short way from 1958, when one said one didn't have an indigenous population, to this day. There are also differences of opinion on this issue in SV. Amongst other things, a prominent former SV depositor has managed a different policy from that provided by SV. Olav Gunnar Ballo used this talking chair to assert his own vision, where he did not recognize together as a native of his own with special dishes. I would therefore like to take advantage of the opportunity from this speaker to say once and for all that this time for SV's part has left. The previous representatives have left SV and have moved to another party. So I hope that this proposal is embraced by a sufficient number of people to get it into the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e831	The next person who has requested contributions to this Constitutional Bill is the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen, who, as far as the President understands, also chooses to include Constitutional Amendment 37, on amendment to Section 108, in his comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e836	I see it as natural for the protocol that the previous submissions to the Constitutional Bill 28 on the amendment to Section 108 and the proposal from Kjersti Toppe and me regarding the amendment to Section 108 are taken at the same time. The proposal we are promoting is that Section 108 is replaced by the following: «The authorities of the Member States shall facilitate the security and development of the Sami people's language, culture and social life.» Our reason for that is that the Joint Court Committee in its time concluded that teaming is a people. The joint declaration of the 1971 Joint Conference stated that co-operatives are co-workers and will be co-workers without being either more or less than other peoples in the world. Sami organisations have also referred to common seas as a people. In both national and international legislation, the term ‘people’ is much clearer — and I would say stronger — than the term ‘ur people’. It also expresses the equivalence expressed by His Majesty the King in 1997 in his speech to Sametinget by stating that the State of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples: Northmen and Samer. The use of the term ‘Samian people’ does not preclude the coexistence of indigenous peoples. But the term 'Samian people' builds bridges, and it's essential. It builds bridges between people. In conclusion, I would just like to say that the proposal on the ‘Samian people’ has met with great recognition by both former presidents Ole Henrik Magga and Professor Carsten Smith, who have gone into the issue in depth and to whom the debate has been referred in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e854	I take the floor with a background in Mr Lundtigen's speech, because it shows the tension in dealing with this matter. Firstly, it must be – I allow myself to say it – wrong for the representative Lundtigen to invoke Carsten Smith in this context, who has absolutely expressed the rightness of going into the concept of "ur people". In addition, the reference that Lundtigen has is right back to 1971, and it was in a time when you had the exact attitude and attitude to which the representative Knag Fylkesnes also referred. That's what we have to leave, and we have to give together the right that is attached to the concept of "ur people". That's what the discussion is. There was the discussion at the last reading, and there will obviously be the discussion here now. What I want to say now is that, for its part, the Workers' Party will stand on – of course – 'ur people', precisely because it increases the status, gives a safer legal authority and gives common indigenous status, which everyone thinks they must have. I am uncertain whether the Central Party will support proposal 37, from the two representatives of the Central Party. I also allow myself to say that I hope that this discussion is not an attempt to cover the conflicts associated with the rights of land and water in the areas where the community lives, and where, of course, the indigenous status will be a strength for the community. I hope that this discussion does not relate to it, but sticks to the principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e862	The proposal is well discussed in the Central Party Group, and it is the whole group behind the proposal – so that it is clear. There is no proposal to cover any conflicts with regard to land and water, on the contrary. The proposal is, I would say, more positive to one another than the proposal that one should call together as “ur people” because one is given a name, “people”, which in both national and international legislation is much clearer and stronger than the term “ur people”. So it's a thoroughly thought-out proposal on our part, and it has the great advantage that it can also help, as I said, to build bridges over the conflicts that have existed in the past, and it has its anchor in what His Majesty The King said in 1997, namely that the state of Norway is based on the territory of two peoples, Northmen and Samer, and stronger can hardly be said.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e869	Perhaps my post could help build a bridge between the two previous debaters. It is true, as the representative Lundtigen says, that the concept of a people's group, together, as we have in the Constitution today, is quite thoughtful. The background for that formulation is the Same Court Committee and the NOU that was led by Carsten Smith. At that time there was a name that was sufficient. You can read the entire investigation, which just describes the characteristics and historical assumptions that we've brought forward as part of the ballast for the previous formulation we had in the Constitution. I must also say that I am a little surprised that we are still going to have rematches on the Constitution. It's also a little bit in conflict with the Basic Law's idea. It is not the case that Norway has signed the ILO Convention, necessarily expressed by changing the terms of the Constitution. I think that those who want to change the Constitution must explain what special rights and problems it has created, the report of the Sami People's Party, which I can see, has worked perfectly well – respect for this people's group – and what ethnic characteristics one wants to highlight. We also said the last time we had this discussion in the Chamber in connection with the previous constitutional audit, that entering into the Constitution that some are more people than others is a dangerous way to deepen differences of origin between good Norwegian citizens. We would rather take that discussion in connection with the signing of international conventions, for example. The ILO Convention and the specific policy pursued in everyday life. Bringing this discussion into a constitutional provision that works perfectly well is really a blow in the air, at my discretion. I can inform you on behalf of the Right that we do not immediately see any reason for taking this rematch. We are well pleased with the mention of the Sami People's Party as stated in the Constitution now, to which Carsten Smith was also involved in his time, although I have also recorded that he has later mentioned the link between this ethnic criterion and the concept of "ur people" as a natural development of our Conventional participation in the ILO. But it's still not Carsten Smith who decides these questions; it's the Storting that does. In the past, we have come to the conclusion that all groups are well served with the wording that is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e883	When we talk about Carsten Smith, who doesn't have the right to speak in this room, I think it's okay to be a little real about what he actually said, and what he hasn't said. He was asked to make a statement to the Sameetinget, and there used a phrase 'Samian people', which is Norway's indigenous people, i.e. 'Samian people, like the indigenous peoples of the country'. It was based on an understanding that "people" and "ur people" are not mutually exclusive. It's not like one is opposite the other. One thing is not the other, but there are different rights attached to this: if one does not recognise the indigenous dimension, one will not recognise the requirement of international law for special cultural protection, that is, that the Sami people, like the indigenous peoples of Norway, have a special right to develop their language, their culture and their social life. In 1987, when the ILO Convention came in 1989, the law of union came into being. There have been significant movements in drug use internationally linked to the rights of indigenous peoples, who were not informed by the law. So it's very understandable that Carsten Smith now comes up with a new distribution and says, what the wording of the Constitution should be, in order to take the current law internationally. I think we should be so principled that we say that recognising the Sami people is not a compromise proposal. It's obvious that we recognise a people who for too long, through large parts of the 1800s and into our modern age, in the 1950s and 1960s, have been treated in a very negative way, which I'm going to think everyone in this room is taking a distance from today. It's a part of helping the Sami people build their language, their culture and their social life. For example, southern Sami is a language that is close to death, and we know that if a language dies, a culture, an identity, and different cultural practices also disappear. By signing these international commitments and recognising them together as an indigenous people, we have also committed ourselves to saving such languages, to saving the practices that have existed in Norway for thousands of years. I'd like to use this as an arena to build bridges between the past negative perception of peer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e893	The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e898	It was almost unnecessary to take the word now after the last article, which was in every way very comprehensive also for my view, and which demonstrates that Carsten Smith cannot be taken for income for anything other than what is proposed by the proposers. He has taken over the legal development as a consequence of the political, and I believe that we have to say that. But before we – probably – end this part of the discussion in Stortinget here today and come to the next department, next time, I ask those who are opposed to this proposal to think through their argument and what it's all about: why are you against the term 'ur people'? I think it is important for you to clarify this, because a collective combination has said that they want this wording, and that should respect the Norwegian big thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e905	Several have not asked for the floor for the Constitutional Amendments Nos 28 and 37.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e912	I am delighted to speak for the constitutional proposal from Kirsti Bergstø, Audun Lysbakken and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on the change in § 25, the ban on nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil. It has long been our cross-political agreement that we do not want nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil. Einar Gerhardsen, the national father himself, proclaimed “no nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil in peacetime” at the NATO Summit in Paris in 1957. This policy has not only unison political support in Norway, but also clear acceptance by our allies. However, the state of the day is no guarantee for the future. A reversal of Norway’s nuclear-free policy may occur at any time by a majority in Stortinget. The proposers therefore believe that the basis of value represented by the fact that Norway is a nuclear-free territory should be enshrined in the Constitution. In addition to the 1950s, a growing resistance in Norway to the nuclear arms race grew. Special impressions made the Soviet test explosions over Novaya Semlya, just 60 miles from Kirkenes. It was very important in January 1958 when there were messages about increasing amounts of radioactive strontium-90 in our milk. Fear of nuclear weapons gripped people. In 1957, Nobel Prize winners Linus Pauling and Albert Schweizer appealed against the test explosions in Norway. This probably made a big contribution. Schweizers Appell collects a quarter of a million signatures in the country, and it is quite rare with so many signatures. In June 1958, the first demonstration train went against the bombings and gathered 5,000 participants here in Oslo. I'm proud to have our political activity together with several of the people who participated there. When the explosions continued, people came together in an even larger number of protests. At the same time, an inflammatory situation occurred after the uprising in Hungary in 1956. Many then worked for the deployment of U.S. nuclear weapons in all NATO countries, including Norway. In the Labour Party, the meanings were shared. Foreign Minister Lange claimed that Norway could not reserve itself against NATO's line because it would be the same as announcing itself. Others were more skeptical. A bench proposal that no nuclear weapons should be stored on Norwegian soil was agreed at the Labour Party National Meeting in 1957. In spite of this, it was very remarkable when Prime Minister Gerhardsen unwittingly decided at the NATO Summit in December of the same year that Norway did not want nuclear weapons in Norway. For 60 years there has been our general political agreement on this controversial position. A legislative proposal to prohibit the production, introduction, use and deployment of nuclear weapons on Norwegian soils must be seen in a broader perspective. It is agreed that Norway will continue to play a driving role in international arms control and disarmament. This supported Size reflects the slowest state of the Middle East. S. 199 for 2015-2016, in the context of the handling of the global security challenges spillover in 2016. Coming to grips with the ambition of a nuclear-free world will require global efforts in several arenas, and as always, individual countries are making the most of good practice. Introducing national fundamental laws that prohibit the use, production, deployment and introduction of nuclear weapons in Norway is a natural part of our international effort. The force in nuclear disarmament work is increasing through Obama’s ‘reset’ initiative towards Russia and Ban Ki-moon’s five-point nuclear disarmament plan. Similarly, the UN Security Council and NATO have stressed that it is a nuclear-free world that is our common ambition. This led to the non-proliferation regulatory conference in May 2010, in which the following text was annexed: «All States need to make special efforts to establish the necessary framework to provide and maintain a world without nuclear weapons.» In 2016, there was also a clear plurality in the UN General Assembly for a resolution to launch negotiations on a legally binding framework to ban nuclear weapons. These negotiations will start at the end of this month, March 2017. Despite the fact that the government has signaled that they do not want to participate in these negotiations, Norway has a long, good and cross-political tradition of being among the most progressive in the field internationally. This proposal will confirm the tradition of our Constitution and be a follow-up to our international obligations by enjoining a world without nuclear weapons in our own law. As the final document of the 2010 Conference of Supervisors emphasises, it is crucial that states support the legalisation of nuclear disarmament policies, as our Constitutional proposal does. In the final document, the states present point out a ‘deep group at the catastrophic humanitarian consequences of any use of nuclear weapons, and reaffirm[ed] the need for all states at all times to comply with applicable international law, including international humanitarian law’. Another argument for the basic bill is to align with the legislation in many other countries. Several countries have introduced equivalent and stricter legislation than the one proposed here, in order to ban nuclear weapons nationally. In New Zealand, a country's anti-nuclear policy was cemented in the New Zealand Nuclear Free Zone, Disarmament, and Arms Control Act in 1987. The legislation prohibits the production, introduction and storage of nuclear weapons in the country and makes actions illegal to citizens who encourage other people to do so. Such acts are also forbidden for anyone acting on behalf of New Zealand, wherever in the world. The legislation also prohibits the transport of nuclear weapons on land or in international waters and their retention in the ports of the country. Civil, nuclear-powered vessels themselves have prohibited movement within the framework of this legislation. The laws also give the Prime Minister the right to refuse international flights to land in New Zealand if they ask for nuclear weapons. New Zealand's legislation in this field is among the strongest in the world, by also making entry into atomic umbrellas impossible. In 1987 the Philippines adopted a Constitutional Amendment that states that it adopts and will pursue a policy for a nuclear - free Philippines. This fundamental policy means that the government cannot store or allow others to introduce nuclear weapons on the Philippine territory. Furthermore, ground-law aircraft, ships and vehicle calling for nuclear weapons prohibit their entry into the country. Such policies have been an effective hub for building national security policy autonomy. For example, a ruling in the country from 1992 on concluding the agreement with the United States on military bases in the country can be seen as a result. In 1992, the same year that the last Russian troops withdrew from Mongolia, Mongolia declared in the UN General Assembly that its territory should be declared a nuclear-free zone. This law prohibits individuals, legal persons and emerging states from acquiring, managing or controlling nuclear weapons. The law also prohibits the development, production, stationing, deployment, transport, dumping and testing of nuclear weapons in the territory of Mongolia. In this ban on nuclear weapons, other radioactive material produced for weapons is also included. Japan is the country that knows most about the effects of nuclear weapons. Despite the fact that Japan, like Norway, has submitted to American nuclear umbrellas, Japan has established a clear anti-nuclear line after the war. The three nuclear principles of Japanese politics were formulated by Prime Minister Sato in 1967, three years after China had tested its first nuclear weapon. These three principles say Japan should not introduce, produce or possess nuclear weapons. This was formulated in a parliamentary resolution in 1971, although the principle has never been legalised. Every sitting prime minister since Sato has confirmed that these three principles underpin Japanese nuclear policy. With this draft constitution, we want to confirm a long-term Norwegian security policy line where we do not want nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e947	No more have asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e954	These are basic laws on the marine resources, presented by Helge Thorheim, Kjersti Toppe, Janne Sjelmo Nordås and me. In its material content, it states: ‘The marine resources belong to the Norwegian people in common. No private person can own or sell the right to harvest. No one may be permanently excluded from the harvest right.» The position is promoted in different options, but this applies to the first paragraph of Section 111. It's a proposal with a high level of precision. First, it states that the ownership of the saline resources belongs to people in Norway. Secondly, no private person can take over the right to fishing as his property and therefore cannot transfer it. The revenue from the future harvesting of fish or other marine organisms shall be capable of being sold by shipowners and shall take the income from such concession or quota sales. Thirdly, harvest rights are an eternal resource for the Norwegian people, so the provision protects future generations from one generation selling out the inheritance silver. Fourthly, this legal provision will put an end to the sustained slippage of the purchase and sale of fishing rights. Proposal 41, now referred to, must be seen in relation to proposal 23, from Ingrid Heggø and others. and proposal 26, from Mr Knag County, etc. Proposal 23 is, in our opinion, an impossible proposal because the genetic material is the common heritage of humans and knows no national boundaries. In the case of proposal 26, it is too weak, partly because the level of precision is too low, so that courts will hardly find guidance in their possible verification of whether the formal fisheries law is constitutional or not. That is why the proposal by the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e973	It's the first time there's been any suggestion that the marine resources should be included in the Constitution. There are three pieces, and it's amazing in itself. Then I have to say that I have a great sense of the proposal of the Center Party, because one of them says so explicitly that a person wants to stop the marketing of the fishing rights. This means that when you have been given a permission from the state to fish a certain number of tons of fish, one cannot sell it to someone else in the next round when, for example, one. leaving the profession. These are very nice movements from the Center Party, if that's the way the Center Party is fully behind it. I want to signal that this is entirely in line with what is SV's fisheries policy line. We believe that one of the biggest tragedys in the fisheries policy is that one has created a buying and selling system that the latest reports now show has increased the life expectancy of the vessels, that efficiency has almost inconclusively gone to owners of capital, and the fishermen's share of the income from own fish has been reduced. Never before have fishers tented such a small part of their own fish. This is what we are proposing. Therefore, I am very pleased, and hope that this is a line supported by the Central Party – if it is true that the Central Party believes this as a party – when SV proposes this in concrete terms in Stortinget. Then I would like to add that there is a dimension that is missing from the proposal of the Centre Party, and that is the role of the coast in this, because at no point in the proposal of the Centre Party is the principle of subsidiarity. And as I said in a previous article, it is two principles that have dominated Norwegian fisheries and maritime law: one is the general principle – that this is no one who can own, and the other is the principle of proximity – that one has a right to shelter if a cage is close to the resources. I would say that the first principle has kneaded the proposal of the Center Party in the same way that SV has done it. We may disagree on the meaning of this if there is a possible legal case, but it has raised the possibility of pointing out in their comments, which would be a starting point for the work of the courts if there were any conflict. The second dimension, the principle of proximity, I think is a very fundamental principle. This is what Norwegian fishing is built on. This is the starting point for both the Participant and Marine Resources Act to benefit the coastal population. The amazing and proud coastal culture that dominates Norway, the coast – where large parts of Norway’s population actually live – will also have a place in the Constitution. It is missing from the proposal of the Centre Party. So I'm excited about how the Central Party is dealing with that part of this debate. That's exactly what the Workers' Party has just said, that they don't want to have it in the Basic Law – they just want that to override the general principle, not the principle of subsidiarity. What I think is a violation of the practice of Norwegian fisheries management and Norwegian sea law for many decades. Let me add that when Norway negotiated the agreement with England, which was the starting point for Norway's quite extensive sea area in the North Sea, and which also made it possible for Norway to catch, as part of our economic zone, huge sea area, it was just that this was sea area that had been used for fishing in impermanent times by the people of the coast. So Norway had a special right to manage these areas as well. That means that if Norway abandons this principle and undermines the principle of subsidiarity, we also undermine our own economic zone. We undermined what was the main argument when Norway won the international right of the sea against England. For this reason, I would warn against excluding the people of the coast and the principle of proximity from entering the Constitution, when they are more superior to Norwegian interests. I mean it's extremely important that we actually do it. It is in the national interest as well as in the interest of coastal communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e988	Several have not asked for the floor for Amendment No 41.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e997	There is a proposal from Kjersti Toppe and the undersigned concerning noise. It's like: ‘Every person has the right to live and travel daily in an environment without harmful noise. The king shall set action limits for outdoor and indoor noise and ensure that the limits are not exceeded.» The proposal may be taken at different locations. Paragraph 111, second paragraph, is inserted as one of them. The rationale for the proposal is that the provision is a clarification and strengthening of the protection of the environment in the Constitution, cf. the first sentence of § 112 of the present day, which reads as follows: ‘Every person has the right to an environment which ensures health [[...]] We will show that noise is a significant and growing problem in cities and agglomerations, despite the fact that we have goals about the opposite. The World Health Organisation has stated the following: ‘Noise is an environmental problem affecting very many people in Norway today. About 1.5 million Nordics are exposed to an average noise level above the World Health Organisation’s recommended limit of 55 dB at their dwelling, and about half a million Norwegians are heavily plagued by noise. Noise in the neighbourhood and in owner-occupied dwellings from sources outside housing is an increasing problem. Noise contributes to reduced well-being and dissatisfaction, and therefore affects people’s behaviour and health status. Stress caused by noise may include a contributing cause of various health disorders, such as muscle tensions and muscle pain, and an contributing cause of increased blood pressure.’ So the basic law of noise conditions, so that everyone has the right to live and travel daily in an environment without harmful noise.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e1021	Several have not asked for the floor for Amendment No 42.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e1028	It is a constitutional proposal relating to the use of the State's defence power on foreign land, and it is promoted by the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Kjersti Toppe, Helge Thorheim and signed and applies to the amendment of Section 25. It's presented in two alternatives. Option 1 sounds: ‘The King may not send troops out of the country to participate in the armed attack on foreign land without the consent of the Stortinge meeting closed doors.’ So this applies to troops that are in the situation of attacking alien soil. The reason for the proposal is that, to reach more or less formal contacts between the government and the Storting regarding the use of the country’s defence power in armed conflict abroad, it should be subject to a fixed procedure ensuring popular governance and control. The proposal is therefore important for the following reasons: Firstly, the proposal ensures better overall control of the use of Norwegian defence forces by Norway’s top body, Stortinget. The change resolves the doubts as to whether Norway can start an attack war abroad without the consent of the Stortinge. Secondly, sending Norwegian soldiers to war abroad is a serious decision. This must only be done after careful consideration, debate and decisions in the Grand Duchy. The purpose of Norwegian military forces is to defend the country against enemy attacks on Norwegian soil. This shall meet the central objectives of the Defence. The present legislative proposal does not apply in the event of a surprising attack on Norway or one of its allies, where, pursuant to Article 5 of the NATO Pact, Norway is required to contribute to the defence of the attacked allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e1046	Several have not asked for the floor for Amendment No 45, and for Amendment No 45. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-14.ana.ud446e1060	There is no record. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting ends? That doesn't seem to be the case. - The meeting's been cancelled.
