ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e32	A number of permit applications are available: by the representatives of Åsmund Aukrust, Norunn Tveiten Benestad, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Bente Stein Mathisen, Audun Otterstad, Sveinung Stensland, Hans Olav Syversen, Erlend Wiborg and Morten Wold on leave from 5 February to 10 February, all to participate in the study stay of representatives in Brussels; from the Central Party Group on the Permit of the Representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, from 5 February to 10 February in order to participate in the study of representatives in Brussels and the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in the OECD, in Paris These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the West-Agder County, Benjamin Groenvold, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Norunn Tveiten Benestad, for welfare reasons. Other alternates of the South-Trøndelag County, Gunn Elin Flakne, apply for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget under Eva Kristin Hansen's leave of absence due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For West Agder County: Ånen Werdal 7.–9. February For Akershus County: Kjartan Berland 7-9. ==References====External links== February For Busherud County: Lavrans Kierulf 7.-9. February For Oslo: Ann Kathrine Skørshammer 7-9. February For the county of Rogaland: Sissel Knutsen Hegdal 7-9. February For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Jenny Følling 7.–9. February For Troms County: Sigmund Steinnes 7.-9. February For the South-Trundellag County: Ferhat Güven 7.–9. February For Eastfold County: Håvard Jensen 7-9. February
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e172	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e181	I would like to start by thanking Sametinget for a full annual report on the business in 2015 and for the useful consultations we have had with representatives from Sametinget in 2016. I would also like to thank the members of the Committee for their cooperation on the suspension of the activities of the Sameting. And then I look forward to attending the Tråante – the 100th anniversary of the first national meeting of the group – for the week. We can enjoy a national celebration in Trondheim, where the Sameting, the Trondheims and the Trondheims have come together to mark an important event in the history of the common people. The merger has a special position within the Norwegian administration. Samemen are an indigenous people who have international legal requirements for special protection, enshrined in the Constitution. The merger has been given a role and a status to this effect. The revenue from the pooling shall be entered above our national budgets. In 2015, Sametinget managed 429.6 million. kr, of which the Sameting operating budget was well over 140 million. kr. The other is money allocated to grants for different purposes. The current joint president, Aili Keskitalo, says in the annual report that she is satisfied with the achievement of the goal and the work carried out in 2015. Among the special events she points to is that for the first time the Sameting has had a plenary meeting here at Stortinget. The merger president believes this is an important contribution to bringing the Storting and the Sameting closer together. She further shows that State Building has completed the addition of 1520 m 2 for the Sametinget in Karasjok. The annual report from Sametinget also expresses impatience in several areas. We're going to notice that here in the Stortinget. Reference is made to the fact that in 2015 the Sametinge received appropriations from seven different departments. Lack of coordination in the ministry's work on Sami issues is perceived as a problem. The Committee notes that the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation, in cooperation with the other departments and the Sametinget, has undertaken work to assess the benefits and disadvantages of bringing together most, or all, of the appropriations under one budget chapter and one budget line. A draft report on this work was submitted to the Sametinget in autumn 2016. In the 2017 draft budget, the government shows that it will assess the introduction of the new budget model for the Sameting after consultations with the Sameting. The members of the Committee support this work in various notes. In our consultations with the Sameting, there has also been a desire to receive a treatment of appropriations for Sami purposes similar to the one we have for the municipalities through the municipality proposition, i.e. a two-part treatment. Even I'm not sure that's the best solution. On the other hand, I look forward to having on the table proposals for a coordinated examination of the annual allocations of the State budget. It has a central role to play in the preservation and strengthening of Sami languages. The right to use Sami languages in meetings with the public and the right to training in and in Sami is one of the most important rights of community as a people. The Committee stresses the importance of this work, and we say in our remarks that we are responding to the follow-up of the government, including facilitating action. There are also clear conflict areas in the relationship between the Norwegian State and the Sametinget. We experience from time to time that the development of business, transport and energy supply collide with Sami interests. The annual report refers to the fact that the Sameting is engaged in a land and environmental notification. This is an important effort to ensure the sustainable management of the natural basis for Sami culture, business and social life. I notice that the government in the message indicates that the work on adjusting the reindeer number in parts of Finnmark has now been completed, and that the reindeer number is mainly down to the specified level. It's joyous, and we have to make sure that the reindeer stay below the specified level. In the report, the merger expresses concern about losses caused by predatory game for agricultural and reindeer farming interests. There were no improvements in the predatory game policy in the Sami regions in 2015 and a limited space for action for regional predators. I am afraid the assessment of the situation in 2015 is not as different from the one we are going into 2017. Finally, a repetition: unfortunately, we have to state that the planning of the construction of Saemien Sijte, the Southern Sami cultural centre, has been going on for many years, and it is high time that this project was realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e212	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good review. The company's activities in 2015 are extensive, and I want to start by commending the Sameting for the important efforts made in a number of areas. And then we notice that the whole thing will do more. The merger has ambitions to further strengthen efforts on Sami issues. That's a good sign. The whole thing describes its own task in a clear way. The unification is a democratic instrument for Sami self-determination and for the development of useful and necessary services and services in the Sami population. The combination is the speaker's voice nationally and internationally. In the Committee's comments, a unanimous committee indicates that "the combination of the Sameting is seen as a nationally elected body with independent responsibility and freedom on the one hand, and the Sameting as a prime supplier and a dialogue partner for the Government and the Storting on the other hand," – and then it comes – "as an important and balanced form of work that needs to be carried forward". It is gratifying and good that a unanimous committee says this. It has not been a matter of course on previous occasions, as there have been comments that the whole of the Samet should be closed down and removed. Now we're not there. After all, the world is going a little bit ahead. The Labour Party, in its comments, points out that there is a need for a new theatre building and, in this context, points to our 10 million budget proposal. kr for the final design and start of new theatre building in Kautokeino. We also ask the government to assess the synergies by looking at the construction of new Sami secondary schools and new theatre buildings in the context, without such an assessment delaying school construction. The Workers' Party further points out that the design of Saemien Sijte in Snåsa has been ongoing for a long time and that the design should be completed in 2017 in order to ensure progress and give the Southern Sami culture its necessary boost. Language is important and fundamental. We believe that the appropriations for Sami learning material need to be increased. This applies to books as well as to the digital front. We also point to the importance of compensating the bilingual communities, and that this compensation actually goes to the bilingual communities. The same school in Hattfjelldal we've been up here before, and we clearly say that this school must be maintained, and that this school must also be given predictable framework conditions. The working party has about 70 million. kr more for Sami purposes in 2017 than the government and the majority parties were able to prioritise. These were about 70 million. kr would make a good contribution to the main areas, to which the Sameting itself points is essential. Update and development of Sami educational material, grants and project funding for Sami theatre and culture, strengthening of Sami newspapers – just as Sametinget points out is necessary. The Labour Party has a clear view that it is our duty to contribute to the preservation and development of Sami culture and language, and that is also what our draft budget contributes to. 2017 is a special year in the Sami context. If not many days, Sami culture and history will be put on the map of Norway. It is to hope that it can contribute not only to knowledge of the history of the Sami people but also to showing the way forward and pointing out important challenges for the Sami community. I'm going to use this opportunity here and now to congratulate the 100th anniversary of the first country meeting of the common people. Much has been done and improved in 100 years. Much remains to be done, and the Storting must be that responsibility consciously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e240	The joint annual report for 2015 was adopted by Sametinget's plenary session on 3 March 2016. The report shows that the Sameting managed 429.6 million. kr. In the annual report, the impending joint president, Aili Keskitalo, on behalf of Sametinget, is pleased with the achievement of the goal and the work carried out in 2015. The president of the assembly also shows in the report that for the first time the Sameting has had a plenary meeting on the Stortinget, and that this was an important contribution to bringing the Stortinget and the Sameting closer together. The annual report also shows that the Sameting has initiated work to evaluate the current Sami language legislation. The government's selection was mandated to look at today's legislation and propose any improvements. They handed over the setting si to the Ministry of Climate and Environment on 10 October 2016. The Committee looks forward to follow-up by the government. The joint president also points out that the municipal reform could have a meaning for Sami courts, and that in 2015, the Sametinget got a deal that was handled in Sametinget. In 2015, the Sameting got NOK 600 000 from the Ministry of Climate and Environment to help municipalities so that Sami language users would not come out worse as a result of the municipal reform. Both in the annual report and in the big news, reference is made to the importance of preserving and strengthening the Sami languages. The Sami languages are important cultural operators and important in the continuation of Sami values and knowledge. The right to use Sami in meeting the public and the right to training in and in Sami is one of the most important dishes for people together. In the big news, the government indicates that procedures for consultations between state authorities and the Sameting are one of the most important frameworks for ensuring their international right to participate in matters relating to them. Both the Ministry and the Sametinget indicate that the consultation procedures have strengthened cooperation between the Sametinget and state authorities. A joint committee believes that further efforts must be made to develop the best possible methods of conflict management when the development of business, transport and energy delivery conflicts with Sami interests. Unfortunately, we see that there are also some conflicts between Sami interests, other grazing and basic ownership interests. This is unfortunate, and it is important to increase understanding between the grazing industry and the basic ownership interests regardless of the basis for conflicts. In the big news, the government also shows that the number of pure in parts of Finnmark is now at a fixed level, and that it has been successful. A joint committee has joined the government's emphasis that it is very important that the number of pure in these areas does not increase again. The annual report of the Sameting refers to the concern for the large losses of the farm and reindeer livestock. I was an anti-violence spokesman for the Right from 2009 until 2013 and was among others. to negotiate the rapprochement. In 2009, there were major conflicts between the grazing industry and the administration because we had an administration that was unreliable. Not least that was the case in the Southern Sami regions. They were met by an arrogance from the government that had no borders. I've learned to know many people who live in predatory areas -- many of them in the southern parts -- and I've gained great respect for the challenges they face, and not least the despair of the way they've been handled by the authorities. During this period, I received an e-mail from a desperate reindeer in Elgån. He had wolf in the calving area and had sent a letter calling for help to the Environment Minister, to come to Elgang to look at the situation and put in action measures to take out these wolves. The answer from Solhell was that it did not fit into the calendar. The message was to take the shooting test and hunt the wolf himself. Everyone knew that it was impossible to do. At the time, there was no help coming from red-green politicians from Hedmark. They set the action frame and the mouse silence. There is still a lot to be done before there is trust in the administration and general respect for the challenges that are in predatory areas, but red-green politicians certainly don't have much to boast about in this area from their own time of government. In the Storing Message, it is also shown that the government paid $3 million. kr in 2015 for a pre-project for a new, reduced extension project for Saemien Sijte. Statsby has been given the task of creating a pre-project this time as well. When one saw the plans that were made, and the process that had been in the red-green government, one saw that there were miserable craftsmanship from that government's side. There was also no political will to carry out the construction. Instead, one holds together, not least for fools. Now there is a chance to put in place realistic plans that can also be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e265	It is timely to start by congratulating the Sami population, four days in advance, on the anniversary of what we can call a precursor to the Sameting, for the first Sami national meeting was held at the Methodist Church in Trondheim in 1917. It was the first time together to work for common Sami cases across the national borders. This day is marked annually as the Same People's Day, and this year they can mark the 100th anniversary. A lot has happened over these hundred years, and a lot should have been solved differently. But it's with satisfaction we can notice today that we have an active combination, with a wide portfolio of things and commitment, and we've got a comprehensive message that gives a good overview of the business. But we've also come to realize that it's blown on the tops of the Sames lately, and must express both the expectation and the confidence that the disagreements will be resolved in a good and democratic way, so that the Samesing can concentrate on the important tasks in which they stand. We look forward to the follow-up of the leadership in the budget work of the Stortningen on the activities of the Sameting. The merger has received its appropriations for several items and from several departments. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is now a work to be started to gather all the appropriations under one post, so that the Sameeting – to say it a little popular – can be mastered in its own house. This has been important for the Christian People's Party for a long time, and we will be a proponent and help this happen. Many issues related to our indigenous people's rights and everyday challenges are still raising debate in Norway, but the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Sameeting was established and wants it to play an important role in Norwegian democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e276	Since its inception in 1989, it has established itself as an important representative assembly of the Sami people, but also as the main co-operator of the government and the Stortinge in order to safeguard Sami interests and rights. The left has long marked itself as a supporter of Sámi interests, and we look forward to the positive development that has been under way since 1989. In the future, it will be important to further streamline the dialogue between the Sameting and the Ministry, and we therefore appreciate the fact that, in cooperation with the Sameting and the relevant departments, the government will assess the possibility of bringing together all the appropriations for the Sameting under one budget chapter and one budget line. This will contribute to a clearer and more transparent financing of the activities of the Sameting. Then it is also important to look at the treatment in Stortinget, so that the Sameting can get a process in the treatment here in Stortinget that is more similar to what the municipalities have, and so that we can have a debate on the spring also for Sametinget, in order to get predictability in the Sametinget's treatment of its own budget that is larger than it is today. One of the main responsibilities of the Sameting is to promote Sami culture and language. For the Left, there is especially one cultural project that we want to highlight, namely the completion of a new museum building for Saemien Sijte. This has been a battle cause for a long time, and we are pleased that the majority of the municipal committee seems to share this focus. For Southern Sami culture, it is important that this project be realised as soon as possible. For Southern Sami culture, this is also important to see in the context of the situation we had last year, when the Same School of Middle Norway in Hattfjelldal was in danger of being closed down. In the Left, we are very pleased that we reached an agreement in the revised budget that ensures that this important school is maintained, which has such an impact on the development of a very threatened language, namely the Southern Sami language. This school has a meaning, and every student who speaks such a small language has a great impact on the evolution of the years to come. In the extension of this, when we look forward, I will also stress that we now need to find a solution for Sami high school and reindeer school in Kautokeino, which is worn out. Schooling is a state responsibility, and the state must take this responsibility. In national terms, there is a smaller school, and it has taken an unnecessary amount of time to get the project in place. The project is also becoming increasingly less and less in the process, instead of the state now showing the responsibility that the state needs to do to put in place a school that has a capacity and quality that is necessary for it to develop as a secondary school and as a reindeer school in the future. This will the Left come back to. Then we will also remind you that it is important to have progress for Beaivváš, the Sami National Theatre, which also has a temporary building. With the national significance of the theatre, both nationally in Norway and nationally for the community, there is a need to make progress in finding the next major solution for Beaivváš, so that it can develop further. The left would also like to congratulate, as the Christian People's Party, on the Sami national day on Monday 6 February and looks forward to attending the whole week on a marking to be in Trondheim – 100 years after the first Sami national meeting was held in Trondheim in 1917. It's worth reflecting on the evolution that has been over these hundred years. It is clear that the way in which the Norwegian State has behaved over the hundred years towards the Sami population is something that should be criticised, that is something we should reflect on. I think it is important – even today, as we have a completely different relationship with and respect for being one country with two people – that we continue to take on this responsibility from Stortinget, that we discharge national responsibility, in good cooperation with the Sametinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e297	First of all, I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate you in advance on the 100th anniversary of the first national meeting. Samemen are an indigenous people and one of the peoples that constitute Norway. It is stated in our Basic Law, and it is very important that the Sameting can therefore function well and get good work opportunities, because it is the democratic body that has overall and overall responsibility for many of the areas of society to be cared for in the Sami regions. This is one of the reasons why the SV in their budgets has significantly strengthened the Sameting in recent years, both within culture and with general appropriations, so that they can, in line with other government in Norway, carry out their tasks, as they are entrusted with, and as they are supposed to have ambitions. Of course, Sameting has ambitions, as other local, regional and state governments have. It was just supposed to be missing. So to the very system of appropriations, which has been discussed a lot. I heard the representative from the left also up here and talked about it. A proposal on the budget for this year was presented by the SV. I don't quite remember if the Left voted in favour, but at least that's exactly what the Left-Representative was up here and now said, that we need to present an overall issue on spring, with a review of the Commonwealth economy, so that we get an overview of it, and a complete review in all the different policy areas, as we do with the local economy. Then we can decide on the elements in it, and not like now, that it becomes a little bit under different departments and systematically subdued, as it has been in recent years. It's a very important proposal, which we're going to follow up on. One of the things that Sametinget points to as particularly vulnerable is this with a lack of textbooks in Sami. This applies to both the digital and those who are on paper, and the lack of teaching material puts extra pressure on the Sami teachers and helps to exacerbate the recruitment of teachers in Sami. This is serious, because we know how important language is to identity and to evolve and be one people, who are together. The educational situation in school is very serious, and that's why we have to do something about this, because it's been going on for a long time, and it's a growing problem. There is currently not enough further training on Sami for teachers, and there are a number of themes in the Sámi curriculum that are not covered by today’s provision of continuing training for teachers. It's important to get fixed. Then it is important that the means of bilingualism which ensure that municipalities are compensated for additional costs related to Sami language, go unabated to the municipalities. This is SV busy. Finally, a little visit to the violent harange that the representative Lødemel from the Right had when it came to the predatory situation. Yeah, it's a problem, but the circus that's going on this day isn't exactly an impressive show, either, where you have one Right Party in the House, one Right Party in the Chamber, and a third Right Party in the Government, to say it like that. In the state I come from, you don't feel exactly cared for or safe with what's going on today. But I can assure the representative Lødemel that he will have the opportunity to decide on a proposal that comes from SV, that we need his own big message on Southern Sami language, culture and nutrition. Indeed, of all the most vulnerable Sami culture, the language and industry are present, and it also drowns – as common policies drown in national policies, southern Sami policies drown in common policies because of so few sympathies. That proposal is going to be promoted, and I sincerely hope that the Right will support that proposal, and that we will get a proper review of this, of all the issues. There is a need for this, because it is now, on the very marginal level, a very small group that really needs national attention, national action and national policies to ensure that this culture, this language and these industries are allowed to live into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e314	Next week, February 6th, 100 years ago, together had their first national meeting, which was organized in Trondheim. 6 February is an important date for Sami organisation. As the Council of State responsible for joint policy issues, I look forward to attending the celebration and marking of the day. I am proud of what the Stortinget, the Government and the Sametinget have achieved – together and separately. We've come a long way since 1917. On 10 October last year, the Samming President and I were handed over to the Sami Language Committee's report on the Heart Language. The Sami languages are important cultural carriers and provide for the continuation of Sami values and knowledge between generations. Sami languages form an important part of our common cultural heritage, which we as a nation have a responsibility to care for. The government is therefore committed to pursuing a policy that ensures the future of the Sami languages in Norway. I am pleased that the government and the Sameting have now received a report that provides an important basis for further efforts to strengthen the Sami languages. I look forward to seeing what input comes into the ongoing hearing. The Government and the Assembly will cooperate on the follow-up to the recommendations of the sample in the coming year. Negotiations on a Nordic co-convention are in progress. Now everything is at the heart of a common legal framework for Norway, Sweden and Finland. The Nordic Convention has as its overall objective the preservation, exercise and development of its culture with minimum barriers to cross-border cooperation. I will not hide the fact that these negotiations have sometimes been very demanding. I see it as very positive that the delegations have come up with a proposal on which there is an agreement – both between the representatives of the States and the three assemblies. A Nordic Convention is a joint Nordic and Sami project. I am concerned that we should continue good cooperation between the states and the assemblies also in the implementation of the Convention. First of all, the text of the Convention must be dealt with in the three contexts. In Norway, as an indigenous group, the right to be consulted on matters that could directly affect Sami interests. One of the issues that the government is now working on is the follow-up to the committee's proposal to legislate on the consultation system. The work is well within a good track and takes place in consultations between the Sametinget and the Ministry. In 2015, the Sametinget and the Ministry had approx. 40 consultation processes – many of them on demanding policy issues. In addition, we have a continuous dialogue and many fixed meeting points. I know that the consultations have helped politicians and civil servants to understand more fully the needs of Sami communities. We have had dialogue and consultation with the Sameting on a number of issues – from road, health, wind and hydropower plants to future film policy. Although we stand a long way apart in some consultation processes, we usually manage to reach agreement. In the dialogue with me, it has been clear that today's budgetary system with allocations from several departments' budgets is being perceived as demanding for the Assembly as a body elected by the people. I understand that. During the meeting I had with Sametinget on 11 January this year, we agreed on the process further. We will consider alternative models for the budgeting of Sametinget, based on the report prepared by the Ministry, and a position note prepared by the Sameting itself on the matter. In this work, we will also discuss alternative models of dialogue between the Commonwealth and the government on budgetary matters. We've come a long way since 1917. We've come a long way in the last year. But there are still challenges that we want to work on further. We will continue to work to strengthen language, culture and traditions in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e331	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e336	2017 is the big Sami anniversary year, it gives an opportunity to look back. I share the Council of State's view of the considerable work that has been done over the past 30 years to strengthen Sami language and culture and to give the Sami people the recognition that is required by law, the ILO Convention and state policy. Nevertheless, there are significant challenges to address. The everyday life of many coworkers today is that you do not have children’s playgrounds with Sami language for your child in many places, and that there is a shrieking shortage of teaching materials and teachers for the students who are to be trained in and in Sami. Therefore, my question is: Will the government take the opportunity in the 2017 anniversary to ensure real equal treatment of Norwegian-speaking and Sami-speaking children, or will it continue to cut in Sami appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e346	The budget for 2017 was dealt with in Stortinget last autumn, so that budget is fixed for this year. So the government has now started the review of the 2018 budget. But I agree with the representative's starting point, namely that we must ensure equal treatment, and that language and teaching materials are very important to achieve this. That is why I am pleased that we have now received the report on the heart language, with many concrete follow-up points – I have clearly stated that we must start work on implementing the actions that are simple to implement, and that will take longer – and it is now out for consultation. The follow-up to the Joint Court Committee, which will address consultations at municipal level, will also provide a basis for a better dialogue on the important issues related to kindergarten and school, between the Sami interests and the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e355	Then I just want to replicate that the government has quite a lot to say again, because after the Right Party and the Advance Party entered the government, you have cut the appropriations for Sami purposes, and you have made the starting point worse for those who work every day to strengthen the language. It is very good that we have received the heart-language report on the table. What remains to be seen is whether the government will endorse the good proposals that lie there, or whether you will leave that job to the next government. It is incredibly important not only to make a firm commitment in 2017 to what happened last year and 20 years ago, not to lean back, but to put in place active, concrete measures to strengthen language and culture. In that case, the situation is particularly serious for southern Sami languages. The government tried to drop out of Southern Sam School in Hattfjelldal. I ask, we have to try to do it well again, will the Council of State actively propose policies to strengthen the situation of the Southern Sammen?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e362	I'm a little surprised at the tone of the post. As far as the appropriations for Sami purposes are concerned, they are largely carried forward. It is also the case that when I took over as Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, the negotiations on the Nordic Convention for the Protection of Human Rights stood in check. It was our government that made sure to get ahead again in those negotiations, and now the negotiations are in goal. Can't we across the political divider lines be happy with the progress made? I believe that the Nordic Convention is important, both for the Nordic countries and for the Nordic countries. It has a Sami dimension, and it has a Nordic dimension. Then we've also had a discussion about the school in Hattfjelldal. We are now working further on the premises made by the Stortinget and believe that it can play an important role in the coming years. You're now working on getting it into place. And yes, I have the ambition to contribute to the implementation of the central actions in the heart language – both through today's government and through what I hope will be a future bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e371	Its aim is to improve the coordination of government appropriations, and it is shown in the annual report that appropriations are now distributed in seven departments. An investigation has been carried out to assess the benefits and disadvantages of bringing together most of them or all under one budget chapter. One might imagine a two-part division, where, for example, The reprocessing industry is under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the rest is under the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation. The 2017 budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation shows that one will assess the introduction of a new budget model following consultations with the Sameting. I then wonder how far this work has come, and what model of coordination of government appropriations seems to be being selected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e378	I have had long-standing dialogue with the Sameting on a future budgetary system, and we have jointly assessed both the benefits and the disadvantages of stronger coordination. We agree that coordination has many advantages, but we are also committed to ensuring – including on the Sami side – the dialogue and responsibilities of the specialist ministries in the various fields. It is important that the Minister of Knowledge is involved in Sami languages. It is important that the Minister of Culture is involved in Sami culture. So we've now prepared a report that's been transmitted to the Sameting, and we're waiting for an assessment from their side. It is my ambition that we should explain this in the revised national budget, so that the Storting can also be included in the discussion of a future budgetary arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e383	As the Council of State itself was in the post, one of the most important cultural carriers is the language. What worries me most is perhaps the minority languages in the minority language: lulesamic and southern Sami. They are particularly vulnerable because they have few language users, they have a small learning environment, and it is demanding to maintain these minority languages. Do the Council of State have additional attention to minority languages in the Sami language, and what are the measures, if any, to ensure that they are better addressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e390	The answer to that question is yes. That was the background for the merger and the government agreeing to put down a sample that was just going to work with the Sami languages. Last October, the joint president and I handed over the heart language report, which has many specific proposals. It is now on the verge of consultation. I am committed to starting the implementation of this important report in order to strengthen the Sami languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e395	I am concerned to ask questions about the state responsibility for Sami education. Normally, when it is a state responsibility, there is a expectation that funding is quite certain. But we had the discussion last year about the school in Hattfjelldal. Fortunately, we agreed to continue the important school for Southern Sami education and language development. We still have a discussion that there are too few funds for Sami learning materials. Then, as I mentioned in my article, we also have the situation of the Sami high school and reindeer school in Kautokeino, where it has taken a very long time to get a project in place. It is constantly changing, whether gymnastics are disappearing or slaughtering areas are becoming smaller. In a national context and for a representative of Oslo, this is a small school, and it should be easy for the state to go in and cut through. I do not expect the Council of State to know all the details, but can he confirm that the State will take its responsibility and ensure that we also implement these projects with the necessary quality, so that the State fulfils its responsibilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e402	There are important questions raised by the representative of Elvesuen. The joint school for Middle Norway in Hattfjelldal is being driven on, and you are now discussing how, not least with the background of Left's commitment. I guess I'm familiar with that, and it was also decisive to find a solution. We look forward to the role school in Hattfjelldal can play in the future. The pooling, which is responsible for the development of Sami learning materials, receives 42 million. kr from the Ministry of Knowledge for this work. We have now also – as I have been in several rounds – the follow-up to the Heart Language Report, which could also help to strengthen the Sami languages. There is a dialogue between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Sameting in the field of higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e411	The council's reply to the Left now made me alarmed, for he says that it is Left's commitment that has saved the school in Hattfjelldal, and Hattfjelldal preserves some of the most vulnerable southern Sami languages. Then it must mean that the government and the Council of State do not have the same understanding of how important this is, because it was not within the government, and the Council of State says that it is the Left who has brought this forward. It makes my question even more important, I think. I mentioned in my post that we are planning to ask for the development of our own big message on Southern Sami language, culture and nutrition, precisely because there are so vulnerable environments, also in Sami context, because they are so small. Such an overall review may be necessary, even because it appears that the Council of State and the Department do not have that understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e418	Through a long political life, I have learned that it is to be honored who should be honored, and I am a little surprised that a government council is criticizing a party – Left – that has had a very strong commitment to the school in Hattfjelldal. It's not that the government didn't have that understanding, but we had thought of another solution, which we also thought would contribute to a good solution for the Hat Mountain. But now, in cooperation with the Left, we have come up with another solution. I think you could say that in such a debate. I'm also registering SV's commitment to the Southern Sami environment. Then I will refer to the follow-up to the report of the Heart Language, which I believe is the very central issue. I think it would be unfortunate if we now had a two-track process -- one sample to look at the Southern Sami, and another for the Sami languages. Now we have the heart language report, which will help us to strengthen all the Sami languages, including Southern Sami. There are many concrete proposals in it, and we are committed to following up important measures contained in that report.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e426	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e433	The activities of the pooling process are extensive and the work done is crucial. That's why I wish there was room for more. I record that there are a bit of shared reality perceptions, that the Norwegian side often highlights that the consultation arrangements work very well, while the Sami side likes to stress that they could work better. Then I choose to think that the minority perspective should reach the majority vote. I record that the Sameting sums up the budget that it's Sami cut, and it's noticed in the Sami everyday life and in the Sami reality. It is noted when it is cut into funds for food development, for language, and when resources for culture are lacking. SV will have a Sami bet in languages, in industry, in culture, in Sami communities, and it requires a promise. It requires political will, and it requires a common understanding. That's why it's a shame that we have a Sami National Theatre that has health-threatening conditions. Sami cultural expressions shall not and cannot be developed under conditions that have never been accepted by other national institutions. Therefore, it is urgent to build a new building for Beaivváš. We cannot live with double standards in our country. It's a special year we're in, with the 100th anniversary of the first Sami Grand Meeting, and it gives good soil for Sami pride and a boost. SV wants to use this anniversary year for party and celebration, but also to make up the status. For this reason, SV has proposed that the Storting should set up a Truth Commission for Research Policy, with the aim of reconciling the overall presentation of the research policy that has been pursued, the kind of consequences it has had at both social and individual level, and not least where to go further. The point of looking back is to be able to look forward with a wiser and clearer look, and to find the best way, it is often wise to look at the tracks of previous steps that have been left behind as a society. The sum of us is the past and the present and the fact that we are a common future, and I hope that the future will bring an increased focus on living language and culture – and Sami bet. We are not going to deal with proposals today, but I urge everyone to include them in the discussions in the next week of the festival and to deal with it carefully. Then I will end by wishing everyone a good and fine February 6th: Lihkku beivviin!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e446	Sami language and culture represent a wealth for Norway and a great resource, and basically it is about taking care of Sami language and culture, about giving individuals the opportunity to live the life they want. Then I have registered that the Council of State was almost a little swirled because he does not get the praise and recognition he deserves, and then I will give the Council of State recognition for two things: one is that there has been a clarification on the Nussir project, and that is good, because whether you are in favour of or against that project, it is important that there is a clarification. Of course, I also think it is good that the Nordic Convention is now negotiated, but at the same time I would like to add, in the extension of the Nordic Convention: Norway has... and in the world has had a driving role in developing modern indigenous policies, and I want to continue to develop the state common policies and, not least, implement them through concrete measures. [[The President coughs]] We're not there anymore. It is true that the Progress Party did not succeed in putting the Sameting down, as they should, but it is still and passive on the part of the government in this area, and it must be tolerated by the Co-Council. It has been cut in appropriations for the Sameting and for Sami purposes by this government. In school, there is a screaming shortage of enough qualified teachers, and there is a screaming lack of teaching materials on paper. It is not obvious that a Sami-speaking student gets textbooks in the subjects in which it is to be taught, and while Norwegian children take Salaby and other digital teaching materials as a matter of course, there is no Sami, and I believe that the government has to be able to hear that. I noticed that the Right Representative here used his entire post in eight red-green years – we can have a seminar on that – but it is clear that the Sami people are also interested in hearing: What does today's government think about the future – not about what happened 10 and 30 years ago? There is a need for a new policy and more policy in schools, businesses and culture. Let me give you an example: now the museums are to be moved in Oslo, and several $10 million will be spent on moving museum objects. But moving Sami cultural objects back from Oslo and out to six Sámi museums hasn't found it worth spending one penny on. It is clear that it is perceived as the discrimination it actually is. In the case of consultations, the government has now tried to change the king crab policy, which is of great importance to the fjords in Finnmark, through a Document 8 proposal in the Stortinget, without consultation. The unforeseeableness it brings to fishermen and communities, I don't think the government is anything to brag about. It's in place with party speeches in the anniversary week for the next week and in the anniversary year, but we can't just do party speeches, we also have to take the opportunity to discuss the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e457	There the representative got a little extra speaking time, it was as a settlement for hosting and harping from the president. I'm sorry, I hope it gets better. Here it's quieter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e462	This is a message about what happened in 2015, and then probably the Right must be responsible for what happened in 2015 and then. The reason I took the floor was the exchange of lines with the Council of State, because I don't think the Council of State is particularly kind when he sets up a contrast between implementing the heart language and making a big message for the whole picture to look at language, culture and industry. There is no contradiction between that – none of us have said that the heart language should not be implemented. On the contrary, we have put money on the table in order to implement this, to be able to get better education, to be able to receive training from teachers in Sami. We are very much in favour of it, but it is also important to take care of the small local languages. The heart language can be a good tool to be referred to in such a big message, but the point is that you have to get a complete review of the total of this, because the southern Sami environment is so vulnerable and small. When the government proposes to shut down the Sami school in Hattfjelldal and argue that it's okay, it shows a lack of understanding of the vulnerability of these languages, because it wasn't that the Sameting and the Sami environments agreed with the proposal that the government had. On the contrary, they deeply disagreed, and the entire opposition on the Stortinget also opposed it. So the uncertainty that I asked the Council of State about in my post is probably standing, because it's the Storting that has forced the government to take these considerations, and not the government's sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e471	The representative of Lødemel's violent criticism of the red-green predatory policy cannot be undisputed. I happily admit that the Center Party is sorry that we didn't get far enough to reduce the robberies pressure and come down to an acceptable level, not even in the Sami areas, but the situation after almost five years of blue-blue government is considerably worse. The wolf trunk has not become smaller; it has become larger. Therefore, the technical recommendations were to take out 47 wolves in the zone to try to fix this. The Minister for the Environment, from the Right, trains the decision of the Storting, and the withdrawal is not implemented, a completely necessary exception for, among other things. to ensure southern reindeer management. When the population within the zone becomes too large, more people are pushed out of the zone. The consequence is that there will be a much larger problem with straw wolves in grazing areas in the southern Sami area, for example. around the five-hundred and Riast/Hylling. We know that the king eagle is another great predator, especially during the calving period. It's a big and growing problem, especially on Fosen. The rapprochement says that the eagle population should be registered, and then one might expect the government to come up with proposals for action, but no! Losing your weight is another big problem. If we don't get done with this, I'm afraid that the predatory situation will make the southern Sami reindeer industry very threatened.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e484	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e499	It is that even clarifications in this hall have consequences for some. That's why I think it's natural to comment on this matter as well, even though there's an overall committee that's behind it. In this case, amendments to the Financial Corporations Act are proposed which aim to clarify uncertainties and thus provide better predictability and safer pensions for customers with free policies. A clarification is proposed in the Financial Corporations Act § 21-20 on the public administration of insurance undertakings, so as to make it clearer that the Administrative Board may propose the conversion of free policies into investment funds as part of a transfer to other life insurance undertakings. A rule is also proposed that life-assurance policies which give rise to the payment of death or disability shall cease to be in force three months after the undertaking has been placed under public administration. Such a period of grace will give the same rule as for non-life insurance. These changes are justified in the interests of policy holders by economically sound solutions and by an effective administrative process. A Joint Committee has noted that several Hearing Officers support the proposal to clarify that free policies can be converted into investment funds as part of a transfer to other life insurance undertakings. Despite the fact that the law does not prevent this today, we believe it is appropriate that this be made more clear by the law. The proposal that risk insurance in life assurance which gives rise to the payment of death or disability shall cease to apply three months after the undertaking has been placed under public administration involves clarification of the legal status of those insurances by a public administration. The Committee considers that the changes clarify the current law and clarify ambiguities, thereby providing better predictability and safer pensions for free-polistic customers and aligns them with the proposal. And I am sure that the committee also wants the President to improve well!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e516	I'm glad. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2, so there won't be any more congratulations. But I'm taking with me what is!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e536	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e553	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e591	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e601	The legislative proposal will be taken up to the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-02.ana.ud244e615	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what it looks like. The meeting has been cancelled.
