ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e28	The called alternate of the Telemark County, Hanne Thürmer, now takes the seat. An application for welfare leave is submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen on 22 and 23 February. The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of the Nordland County, Tone-Helen Toften, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternate member of the Nordland County, Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren, is hereby called up to meet in Stortinget on Thursday 23 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e60	The representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e66	On behalf of the representatives of Ruth Grung, Ingvild Kjerkol, Line Kisses Vennesland, Torgeir Micaelsen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to set up a grant scheme for activity projects for people with memory impairment and dementia.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e71	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 17 February 2017: ‘Temporary management of immigration and integration matters in the Ministry of Justice and Security. On 17 February 2017, the Council of State decided that Per Sandberg will assume responsibility for immigration and integration matters in the Ministry of Justice and Defence, in addition to the responsibilities it currently has in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, in the time when the Sylvi Listhaug Council will liquidate leave.’ The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is further stated that State Council Sylvi Listhaug will terminate leave from 5 March to 2 July 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e98	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet on oral question time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative of Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e107	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. During this big time period, we have had a number of cases for treatment in Stortinget, where the government has not received support for its policy, and one of these cases was in the ownership message in 2015. Here the government asked for a long line of salsa powers, among other things. in Telenor, in the Kongsberg Group, in the Fly train and in the State Forest. The basic ideology was that there was to be a sale here. However, the Storting said no to important parts of the government’s proposal, and it is not long since the Minister of Industry in this Chamber confirmed that the government takes note of the majority of the population’s view – it should of course be lacking – but she also points out that her view of this is the same as when the message was presented in 2014. This makes me wonder what we are waiting for in connection with the fallout option. We can also see in the Right's draft game program where they write that the game will ‘increase the private ownership of state companies where it is appropriate for the company and society...’;» They also write that they want to "sub-privatize Statkraft". Together with the Minister of Industry's own statements, it is natural to think that in the next period, the Right will want even more extensive sales powers than we saw in the ownership messages. Can the Minister of Industry cancel this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e121	What the Minister of Industry can confirm is that I am in favour of the government's policy, and not least of the decisions that the Stortinget takes – it should just be lacking. I believe that the Stortinget had a very good debate related to the ownership announcement in February 2015, and that is not correct, as the representative claims, that it did not endorse its policy. With the exception of two companies, there was a large consensus that the state of Norway is and will be a major owner in Norwegian business. In fact, very few countries — perhaps just a few — have more ownership than Norway has. But the main rule in Norwegian business is actually private ownership. Private ownership has many advantages, while there are good reasons for the state to own. So the government got a number of mandates. Some, quite few, are actually used, and some are not. What we have said is that we should best care for the interests of the community. That means we don't have to sell, and we don't have to sell to sell. We sell if that's right and if it's value-creating on behalf of the community. But I think you'll see in a review after this expansion period that there are privatized far fewer companies now, with this government, than that, for example. was joined by Stoltenberg in 2001. That was when the really large privatisations were carried out, which I believe was quite right. And then I can answer for the government's policy, and the government's policy with regard to State Power is that we haven't signaled and we haven't had a decision to sell any parts of State Power.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e132	I then assume that the Minister of Industry cannot deny that the government will want even more extensive sales mandates. I have very specific questions relating to state ownership positions in different companies, whether it's Hydro, Yara, Enova, the Flytrain, DNB or Investinor. In the light of the Minister of Industry's own statements, and in the light of what they themselves write in the draft Right Party Programme, can the Council of State reject the right's request to ask for powers to sell down the country's ownership positions in some of these companies for the next period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e137	With all due respect, this is a funny question. I am in favour of the government's policy and the decisions taken by the Stortinget. I've been very clear on that. Then I record that there's a debate going on in all parties -- it's actually part of our democracy -- and then we know that the parties at the national meetings now this spring is going to make their decisions. These are not debates taking place in the Ministry of Industry, nor are decisions taken by the Government or the Ministry of Industry. The representative mentioned a number of issues, including: Hydro, Yara, DNB. We have neither asked for nor been authorized to sell ourselves into these companies. No authorisation has been granted for the flight train either. So it is not on our agenda. Investinor has never been on any sales list with this government, nor with the previous one, as far as I know. So it has not been a debate. So this is a debate that doesn't exist and that I don't relate to either. I refer to the decisions taken by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e144	There will be follow-up questions – first Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e149	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. It's hard to figure out what the government's really going to sell out of the community's property. We are still hearing about new initiatives, and people deserve clear and honest answers. In the old days, at least the Progress Party was clear. We remember that Carl I. Hagen wanted to sell Statoil's oil rights in 1975. We coiled 40 years forward, until April 2015, a business-political figure in the Advance Party went out in the Financial Newspaper and said, "I don't see anything to prevent the state from selling down to 34 percent in Statoil..." and said it as a good idea. There are a number of discussions going on, says the Minister of Industry, but what does Øyvind Korsberg's party colleague, the Minister of Oil and Energy think? Does he want the state to sell itself into Statoil during this period, or is there any discussion about the next period related to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e160	Like the Minister of Industry, I am dealing with this government's policy. And as it was blacked out by the Minister of Industry, there are no new plans to promote issues related to sales. The Minister of Oil and Energy deals with government policy and has no personal opinion on the ownership of Statoil. We exercise ownership, and we have the ownership position we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e165	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e170	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. The Workers' Party is engaged in the sale of State-owned companies. The Christian People's Party is concerned about what the state should use its position as owner to create more value creation. Spring is the time for the general meetings. It's at the various general meetings that we as a state can and should use our voice. The year behind us has shown that government companies have unfortunately not followed Norwegian laws and guidelines. This came, among other things. in the Panama Papers case. Serious findings have also been found regarding corruption in State-owned companies. This is important that we take the greatest seriousness, so that's why my question to the Council of State is: What will be the state's message at the general meetings with this as a backcloth?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e180	It's absolutely right that we've had a lot of things and we've had too many cases, too serious issues, related to companies where the state is on the owner's side. This is mainly a long way back in time, which is now revealed and in which it has been cleaned up and is about to be cleaned up. I perceive that we are clear and clear from the government that corruption is illegal, it is totally unacceptable. Of course, all Norwegian companies, whether or not the state is on the owner’s side, must comply with Norwegian law. I don't think any companies are in any doubt about that. We come to the general meetings, as we always do, to promote what is the state's expectations of the companies also in terms of social responsibility, because we've seen a development where this becomes increasingly important. Then I want to say that I perceive that this is something the companies are taking seriously. It is targeted at, among other things, corruption, and it's important that we are very clear that this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e189	My follow-up question also goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy, so it will probably be a little up and down with the Councils of State today! Power resources have always been an important area of both public and national ownership. We have secured a large share of our hydropower resources through the fall-back regime and public ownership. Then it is that small power is privately owned, and in the last two years we have seen a solid sale of small power in Norway from public and Norwegian private interests to foreign interests. There are major British interests and German interests that have purchased small power in Norway. In fact, at least the sale covers about 500 GWh, which is almost an Alta power plant. My question to the Council of State is simply: does the Council of State think that national ownership of that part of the hydropower resources is important? And if the Council of State meant it, does he think it should also be facilitated for Norwegian owners? And how does the government possibly intend to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e200	Ownership of small power is as it is described, varied, and from my point of view I think it is important that, in a situation where we want to expand more renewable power, we are open to obtaining capital from both foreign and Norwegian interests. With regard to the situation related to large Norwegian hydropower, the regulationable one, we have been clear on the legislation in force, and we are concerned that there should be national control of these resources. From my point of view, I think that for small power it's right that we raise capital where capital is, and it's been a challenge and it's going to be a challenge to continue to get enough actors to expand hydropower. The fact that more players can be involved in this development is helping us to develop more renewables, both wind and water, than we have had in 25 years. Right now there are 7 TWh under construction. It is good for the climate, it is good for the environment, and it is good for Norwegian power generation in the decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e207	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e212	President, as you can see, we're trying to get the whole government moving, so I want the Minister of Transport up. We might think that the government had learned from the wrong steps of the right-hand side of the Veileno case how wrong it can be for Oslo people and employees when you look blindly at the vendors' draw price, but it doesn't work that way, because the government has killed the NSB as we know it, and is conducting a consultation and expensive reform in order to tender it to drive trains in Norway. [[Laughter]] We know that the only providers of train operations can compete on are staffing, clean-up and pay and working conditions. In Veireno, according to the media, the salaries went down by NOK 31 for the drivers who went to Veireno from former waste collection companies in Oslo. For NSB employees, the big question is whether they are allowed to retain the right to an AFP. Those who are over 55 years of age and are employed in the NSB and who have to switch to the winner of tenders will not be entitled to earn the AFP if it is not paid for by the former employer and the owner, namely the State. Can Ketil Solvik-Olsen guarantee – with certainty – all NSB employees over 50 years of age who will have to change employer if he launches an NSB, AFP? Until now, he has been reluctant – from answering that question every time I have asked him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e221	The President may think this is a little bit on the side of the main question, but of course, Councillor Solvik-Olsen is free to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e226	I'm happy to answer. The government has a good policy on this. But let me first mention Veileno. So waste management in Oslo was put off for the first time when SV started with the City Council about 20 years ago, so it's a little strange that SV now takes away from the policy SV started in Oslo. Waste management in Oslo has been well managed by civil councils for many years – they probably ran 18 years in a stretch – but when SV returned to power, I see that it has become chaos again. Then there is no blue-blue policy that has created the challenges, which SV in its time was starting. I am concerned that when we have a competitive outsourcing, we should have an orderly relationship. That is why we have said that what we do on the railway is not about privatisation, as SV often says. It's about creating better services, it's about bringing together responsibilities that have been spread before, by the fact that things that have been in the NSB system are now directly owned by the Ministry of Transport. It's not privatisation, it's actually even tighter, good government. Then we're going to make sure that the conditions for those who work there are good, and we're going to find those solutions. I've said that in Stortinget many times before.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e235	AFP!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e240	I've said that many times before, as mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e245	AFP.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e250	There is no debate on this. We go back to the main questions, and the next main question is from Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e256	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy, and let me ask the Council of State to welcome her first spontaneous Question Time. As Minister of Oil and Energy, the Council of State is responsible for a very important area of Norwegian policy, an area that is entirely decisive for us to be happy with a green shift. In the media, we have been able to follow the Council of State through his first months of office. We have been able to read that the barbed wire has been used to build water power in protected watercourses and the desire for oil drilling in vulnerable areas. Governments have also stated that he believed that a 25-year-old impact assessment of Nordland VI with some additional assessments should be sufficient. In the last week, I asked questions to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment about his assessment of these statements. Helgesen responded very well, and it was gratifying to the right he stressed that the government's policy is that the protection plans for watercourses should be fixed in the main, and that the management systems built up around both Norwegian oil and gas power and around Norwegian hydroelectric power have lit us up well. It is always possible to draw a little wrong in the first few months of a new job, so my question to the Council of State is therefore: Is the Council of State in agreement with the assessments of its colleague, that the government's policy is that the protection plan for watercourses and the management system for oil and gasworks is firm?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e267	First, I am allowed to thank the representative for a warm welcome – at least initially. To answer the question very easily from the representative Hareide, I can answer yes and stop there. But let me elaborate a little bit. The protection plans for watercourses are essentially fixed, and that is what we laid down in the Energy Communication, and that is what the government and this Council of States are all committed to. We will have a representative selection of Norwegian watercourse structures that are protected and secured for the future. At the same time, in specific cases where floods or scaffolding are involved, it was also possible to consider power generation as a measure. It was dealt with in the Stortinget, and the Stortinget agreed to the principle, but left some extra indications that it should be related to life and health, and that all other possible protective measures have been assessed. It's a policy that I stand for. As far as the management of our petroleum resources is concerned, it has been correctly described by the State Council of Helgesen, we have a good administration that takes care of the different interests we need – both to exploit these natural resources and to take care of both the environment, safety and other industries in our marine areas. That administration is firm, and now that I have specifically commented on Northland VI, it's to describe the story, because in the public debate it can seem as if you don't have enough knowledge, or don't have knowledge of it all. There is hardly any area on the Norwegian pedestal that is more elucidated than the area outside the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja. So Nordic VI was partially opened after an impact assessment back in 1994.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e276	I thank you for your answer. I'm happy for a clear yes. My question is whether the Council is also thinking on 9 March 2000. It was that day that Carl I. Hagen, Jens Stoltenberg and Jan Petersen decided to roll over the central government because they wanted to build a highly impurifying gas power plant. We know that at Mongstad, 550 000 tonnes of CO 2 were released last year. That time was the responsible state councillor Marit Arnstad, as sitting here in the hall today. The Party of Progress, the Right Party and the Workers' Party at that time have been shown to be a gigantic failure. We've used billions from the community, not because the market wanted it, but because three political parties wanted to push through highly impurifying gas power plants. My question to the responsible state council is today: Does the state council admit that there was a huge error, what happened on 9 March 2000 in this room, when we know that Mongstad was adopted in the previous week?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e286	Now perhaps the representative Hareide and the party leader of the Christian People's Party have a slightly stronger relationship to the 9th of March 2000 than the undersigned. But I remember the story. We take note of the decision taken by Statoil relating to the gas power plant at Mongstad. It's a business decision that they've made after seeing how the power price has evolved and how the economy of the project has evolved. I will not give any judgment on the decision taken in Stortinget following a democratic process in 2000. What we're doing is caring for CCS, that is, the carbon capture and testing centre in Mongstad, so that they can continue working on a very important project for Norway and ensure that we can reduce greenhouse gas emissions for the future by working on carbon capture and storage. There is the testing centre at Mongstad important, as one of several elements of government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e293	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e298	At least I remember the March Day in 2000 well. A few weeks later, I proudly signed into KrFU that Bondevik had left to stand up for not wanting to build a highly polluting gas power plant. But as the representative Hareide says, the decision has cost society a lot of money. The construction of Kårstø and Mongstad has cost several billions, the operation has gone down, and not least it has resulted in large emissions without the need for the gas power plants. Maybe it's early to ask the Council of State if he's gone to figure out how much Mongstad has cost the community. It's been a while since Kårstø was laid down, so I would like to ask how much it has cost the community, Statkraft and Statoil to drive through the fact that one would build a highly polluting gas power plant – and the result is that both of them have been shut down?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e305	It is quite right that the representative, Mr Ropstad, comments here. I have not been able to count on this and have not given priority to spending time on it during the first few weeks as the Council of State. There are far more important things ahead of us, versus what is now behind us. So earlier decisions have been made to deploy gas power plants, and decisions have been made to shut them down for business reasons. It's very little interesting for the energy policy that this government is going to pursue. I am concerned that we should facilitate the further development of our base by having good framework conditions, developing new areas for exploration and later development, and working with technology and research. With regard to these previous matters, I think it has less relevance to the work of this government and my work now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e312	Anna Ljunggren – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e317	The councils have had a number of plays after he took over – a desire for a rematch on sheltered watercourses, which it has been less than a year since the Stortinget decided to remain firm, in addition to the fact that there is no need for impact assessment by Nordland VI. There are two issues that the Minister for Climate and Environment has rejected, most recently in the Questionnaire here last Wednesday. Governments have had a number of feelings about oil and gas activity and climate change and believe that it is more emotional than climate change-related agility. Are the two plays that the main questioner referred to here, and to which I have referred, also just feelings from the Minister of Oil and Energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e324	Is there something I've tried to get into the debate in the public vocabulary of these weeks, it's that we need to talk less about emotions and more about facts and knowledge, both in terms of renewables, and especially in terms of Norwegian oil and gas policy. Let me briefly comment on what the representative is now commenting on. As regards the protection of watercourses, I need to make it clear that what I said, is that as a nation built on natural resources, we need to have an ongoing debate on use versus protection. It must also apply to our watercourses, in the same way as to our other natural resources, whether it be petroleum resources, minerals, or fisheries management for that part. The political debate must dry up for decades to come. So to Northland VI, just short: that's how I've said there's a lot of knowledge. Some of the Nordic countries VI have been opened in the past, and it is possible to go further and supplement that knowledge and come to a rapid conclusion through an additional investigation, an impact assessment of what has not been opened, and additional information on what has been opened.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e333	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e339	In his reply to the representative Botten in the first question today, the Council of State said very clearly that he should not stand here on the pulpit of the Stortinge and say anything about neither personal opinions nor the views of the party, but it was government policy. That's what we're trying to figure out, when he goes out so clearly in January and says that he wants to investigate the impact of vulnerable areas in Lofoten and the West Pole, and that he could also think of a discussion about how long the protection plans will last, and whether one should open up to rematches, among other things. in Wefsna. So the Council of State here now says that it stands firm that he agrees with his colleague the Minister for the Environment. Is it so that this is an agreement that now lasts for six months, and then the Progress Party and the Right hope that there will be new paces after the elections that will avoid taking into account such a little unpleasant cooperation partners as the Left and the Christian People's Party, so that they can start doing the things that the Council of State said in January, namely the fight for protection plans and impact assessment in Lofoten and the West Pole?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e346	Firstly, we have an excellent relationship with our cooperation parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party. In the debate, it is important that we make it visible that there is a basis through the Government Declaration and the Cooperation Agreement with these two parties. Then it is important in the political change of words to discuss the matters that are at all times topical. The discussion around the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja and the possible opening of those areas has been hot and important to reach by the beginning of 2017. There I have participated, and I have clarified what is the Advancement Party and the Right View, but have been clear that during this period the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left is firm. With regard to the discussion about the use and protection of our watercourses, I refer to my answer to the previous representative: in a nation built on natural resources, we need to have an ongoing discussion about our natural resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e355	Rasmus Hansson – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e360	It was an unexpected encouragement to hear the Center Party attack the Progress Party for poor water protection. Thank you! It is also nice to hear the Council of Søviknes being very concerned about the carbon capture and storage technology in Mongstad, now that the gas power plant is shut down. Carbon capture and storage have always been the great promise of that project, a promise that has never been kept at any point in Norway so far. Now Clemetsrud, Norcem Brevik and Yara remain candidates for carbon capture and storage. Melkøya, who has the largest emission, was a candidate, but is now prepared for electrification. The question is: can the State Council now assure us that carbon capture and storage on Klemetsrud, Norcem Brevik and Yara are being accelerated and implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e365	I can assure the representative that the government has worked continuously with the full-scale project related to carbon capture, transport and storage. We are now at a stage where potential studies have been carried out to show that it is possible to extend full-scale facilities in Norway and, in fact, at a lower cost than before. Now we're in a phase where you've just asked for contracts related to the concept phase and the pre-projecting. Contracts will be awarded within a short period of time related to these three potential capture arenas – Brevik, Yara and Klemetsrud. We're going to follow this project closely. The size has joined and set of 360 million. NOK for this work in 2017, and we suggest that we should be able to have an investment decision ready in the spring of 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e370	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e375	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. The railway reform has, as you know, resulted in the creation of a number of companies. This has in turn resulted in costs, as the Council of State stated in the Report. St. 27 for 2014-2015, on the railway reform, where the Councils write the following: «The organisational changes will involve costs related to the formation of companies, premises/movements, information, changes in internal organisation/working processes, changes in ICT systems, training of employees, etc.» As far as I know, it now turns out that these companies are no longer part of the self-insurance scheme in the state. This means that they can no longer assure themselves, and therefore they must purchase insurance from companies that offer this. When this was not part of the listing of unnumbered costs in the message, I think it means that someone did not know that there was a problem, or that someone would not tell the Storting about it. Both parts are both equally evil. The centre party is aware that Bane NOR has agreed on insurances to cover material damage, interruption, liability, construction insurance, occupational injury, cyber, governance liability, crime, subordination and environmental liability insurance. What we don't know about, however, is the cost of these insurances. We also found it strange that the Council of State did not address the problem of the self-insurance scheme in the Report. St. 27, about the railway reform. Of course, one might wonder if the Council of State was or was not aware that this would be a problem. My question is: Can the Council of State inform the Government of the following: How much is the annual cost associated with insurance in the railway sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e393	I'm going to make sure that the Storting gets written, because I don't have those numbers in my head. But what's important to remember is that it hasn't been free to assure yourself if you're a self-assured person. It's about premiums and the risk you're taking. It is not that you have not had the cost of insuring yourself in the past. It almost seems that this is the case, with the representative of the Navarsets introducing this. ‘Self-surveyor’ only means that a person insures himself, pays the premium to himself and takes all the risk himself. The difference is only whether to use a professional market for it or whether to do it on your own. What's important in the railway reform is that we should spend more money in the future to make an even better offer than we would realize if we spent more money within today's system. That is why we have changed the organisation to bring together responsibilities that have been scattered today. It's e.g. such – in the old system – that in most railway stations the railway works own a little, and NSB’s ROM Property owns other things. Now we collect everything in one place. That means that we'll get a saving of probably hundreds of millions of dollars per year just on the management of this. One sees that one in the NSB is now going to be able to save 1 billion. kr. That's the goal they've communicated outwards. That means that only in the two areas is one billion in total savings annually through this. There are some costs when you change the organisation. It's like investing in a store or a factory: one has expenses when it happens, and then gets a savings or income later. We see that the change we're making will probably get its savings within a year, maybe less, maybe a little bit more. But in any case, in a growing period, one has released more money to give a better rail offer in total. That means we can subsidize even more train departures. That means we can buy even more trainsets. Or we can do what the previous government couldn't do: we can maintain even more railways, so that the decay will decrease, instead of increasing it. But just in the case of the crowning of some items within the budgets of the budgets, I have to get back to Stortinget in writing with that, so that it becomes as correct as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e406	I think it is a bit alarming that the Council of State rejects the issue, and it is good that there is a written explanation on this issue. I also found that it is alarming that one has not received this information before, and that one cannot answer the amount of costs associated with insurance as a result of the railway reform. It's not a small sum, I think. That such a theme was not part of the message when it was being processed is not good. When you know what the values of these companies are and how serious events can occur on the railway network, it goes without saying that such insurance costs a lot externally. In addition, we have the costs that it was not possible to quantify before implementing the reform, and it is easy to say that one should save. These savings are sometimes hard to find in retrospect. Can the Council of State do any good for the amount of money spent on the purchase of consultants in the event of the reorganisation and privatisation of the Norwegian railway system?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e413	The whole premise for that question is a little wrong when talking about the privatisation of Norwegian railways. As I mentioned to the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, the departments that were separated from the NSB were not put out for sale in the market. We will be able to develop into a ticketing system that has been set up as a purely NSB function to provide tickets for all public transport modes. Today one has to have a separate ticket when a traveler travels by air, another ticket about a traveler by NSB, and a third ticket about a traveler by a local bus company. We want to develop a system that allows you to have one system that will take care of all of this. Then it's not privatisation. In fact, when we add ownership to the Ministry of Transport, it is to have stronger control over it. The same applies to the material company. We want to be able to have one area that has it, rather than that there are different places in different companies. That's what's at stake. In this organisation, consultants have been used, and the Stortinget has been informed about it, for example. in the budget papers. There's talk of hundreds of millions of dollars for just reorganization, but the savings are much bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e420	It opens for follow-up questions – first Ivar Odnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e426	The Council of State can only stand by because the question is still addressed to the Minister of Transport. This government will be thinking about reforms that will contribute to and streamline and provide savings. But it is also clear that reform work costs. In the autumn, the Free Trade Movement could indicate that the cost of the use of consultants for the rail reform was at least 107 million. kr, and then the costs of the NSB were not included. This will not be confirmed or cancelled by the State Council. In addition, we've also heard about the disunity around the pension schemes here now, and around them adding to several of the companies. Based on what has been said before, it may seem that this is a reform that is to be pushed through the cost of what it will cost, and no matter what result you get. What we're busy with in the Center Party is getting an overview of the one-off costs and the even costs that the reorganisation and privatisation of the Norwegian railway has brought, and will lead to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e433	All these numbers are in St.prp. No 1, which is the State budget. That's where we've explained the costs that have been, which are a few hundred million dollars. But as I mentioned, just the first year, we're assuming that we'll be able to take out winnings that make that money savings, and then this is net for the state in terms of getting more money back, and buying more rail services. For many years, one has just pointed out that one could get much more use of the railway system we have if one drove it more efficiently, and if one overall responsibility that has been allocated. The previous government wouldn't do anything about it, but a technical advice that came from all the actors in the railway sector was that we have to reorganize here, not because the state has to take less responsibility, but we have to put together responsibility in a better place, so you need fewer people to do a part of the jobs. Then we can have more money to pay the drivers, pay the train crew, to get more departures. That's the success criterion here, that we spend more money, but we get even more services. That's why we've reduced the maintenance set run, which increased under the previous government. One spent the money wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e438	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e443	It is now popping up with new entities and companies within the railway. One of the new units is the entity with the simple and easy-to-use name the Railway Infrastructure Undertaking Bane NOR SF. In the State budget, the Council of State writes that only in 2017 there will be a need for 35 new administrative posts in Bane NOR. At the same time, the company is now notifying of cut-offs of half a billion dollars and possibly downsizing among the pedestrians. This is a red thread in the government's railway policy: more administration, less out to the foot people. That's not what the Council of State says, that all the costs of the so-called railway reform are in the State budget. On the same day the state budget was presented, I think it was, the department sent out a press release stating that it costs 400 million. kr. It's just part of the cost. The question is, as from previous speakers, what is the cost of implementing the so-called railway reform purely administratively? Then I want the costs of the Ministry of Transport, the Directorate of Railways and the Bane NOR.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e448	To start with the simplest first, to show a little bit how sloppy this is: the company's name is Bane NOR, it's not called the Infrastructure Company Bane NOR. If we're going to discuss this, at least we can have a constructive approach to it. It is true that some jobs are becoming more common in Bane NOR, simply because when a group of tasks that have been scattered in many places, they cannot be grouped together in a company that is not supposed to have someone to carry them out. But that's exactly why you could have fewer middle managers in the NSB, which makes NSB talk about saving a billion dollars. I actually think it makes sense to spend a little bit more money in Bane NOR in order to spend a lot less money in the NSB and still get the same problem solved. The NSB shall not cut its offer as a result of cutting costs, they shall deliver the same as today more efficiently, but with fewer intermediaries. Then we have to look at the totality of the railway sector. Under the red-green government expired the railway, the trailing doubled in eight years. It goes without saying that something should be done with it. The red-green abilities didn't. Today's government cuts expire and has to organize it better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e455	Total costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e460	They're yours in the government's government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e465	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e470	On average, the railway carries about 200000 passengers and 85000 tonnes daily. It is clear that the railway is very important in terms of both transport needs, safety and the environment. That's why good organisation is important, that we get as much money back for the public money that we're just using on the railways. The aim of the rail reform, which we agreed to negotiate together – especially after the expert group report showed that there was a great potential for improvement – was to make the railway more customer-oriented and efficient, that we were able to strike out the long lines. There should be better organisation between actors and we should facilitate competition. The objective has never been competition for competition. The goal is to make a good customer offer and to get the most back for the money. My question to the Council of State is: When does the Council of State think that we want to see the greatest positive effects of railway reform, and which of them does the Council of State think it will be?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e477	The railway reform consists of many parts. It consists of better organisation. That is what came into force from 1 January 2017. It's obvious that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are against every penny spent on better organization, they would just continue today's system into eternity. That's not a good solution. It'd cost you your shirt. But the most important part of what we, the four bourgeois parties, have done together on the railway, is actually to reverse the trend in terms of infrastructure. Many criticise us and say that we should rather spend more money building the railway and maintaining what we have. I fully agree with that, and that is exactly what our four parties have done. Under the previous government, the overall maintenance session doubled. When they joined in 2005, the total maturity was 9.5 billion. NOK, and as they went out, they left behind a maturity of almost 19 billion. kr. We've turned that trend around. Now the total decay down to the 16's. It's precisely because we've prioritised, precisely because we've managed to prioritize appropriations, but we've also done the tough job of organizing it better. When the actors say that here we will be able to operate more effectively once the organisation has settled down, I think it is worth listening to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e484	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e490	I give Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen one more chance, although nothing suggests that he deserves it. For NSB employees, the big question is whether they are allowed to retain the right to an AFP. Those over 55 and employed in the NSB who have to switch to the winner of tenders will not be entitled to earn the AFP if it is not guaranteed by the former employer, which means the NSB and the State. Can Solvik-Olsen guarantee that he will guarantee all NSB employees over 55 years of age the right to an AFP if they have to change their employer if the NSB is put out to tender? Until now he has refused to answer that question every time I have asked it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e499	That's not right, what's the statement here. I have said many times in the Storting, and not least many times in the public debate, that we are not implementing this reform to take the pension to people. We need to find a solution to this. I told you. That's my intention. The answer is that we have to take care of this. I can't believe it's so hard to understand. But what matters to me is that we're going to make sure that Norwegian railway is even more attractive to work in the future. Then you can't underpay people. Then you can't take the pension. Then one has to take care of them simply because one needs competent people on the railway. That's what we're going to have. Then the representative Eidsvoll Holmås stands here and shakes his head. It's possible because he's opposed to the whole reform, but we see that there's a lot of winnings with it, and we can be happy that with a civil majority, we're using 7 billion. kr more on building the railway in 2017 than the Eidsvoll Holmås managed in 2013. One should like to be dissatisfied with the fact that one himself does not sit in government, but wants a stronger railway, one must vote on one of the bourgeois parties in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e504	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e509	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. We need to create new businesses and new jobs. This applies in general to the country, and not least to my home area in More. There are great opportunities here, among other things. related to the marine and maritime sectors, as well as to other industries. It is therefore gratifying that yesterday the government presented a new sea strategy. I look forward to the concreteisation of this strategy and expect it to provide a basis for very good economic development. Access to capital is an important factor in the start-up of new enterprises. Here it has to do more, really. The Left has proposed the establishment of a CapitalFUNN scheme. We've brought this to the government, and we're happy about it. What remains is to design the details of how the Capital FUNN Facility will operate in practice. We assume that this mechanism is in place in connection with the revised budget now in ours. Can the Minister of Industry confirm to Stortinget that the scheme for which the Left has been requested and implemented is now being put in place? And how does the Council of State think the scheme should be structured?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e520	I am very pleased that the government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party in the UK, has strengthened the entrepreneurial policy in Norway. It was high time. We presented a Founding Plan in October 2015, which provided the basis for a common entrepreneurial policy. It's about early-stage capital. It's about knowledge. It's about having a culture of foundation. We've seen how extremely vulnerable we are when our biggest industry, the oil industry, suddenly and dramatically falls in price, with the consequences that it has for cost cuts and manning. We have to meet with that to get us more legs to stand on. Then we need good entrepreneurs. The left has contributed most to the follow-up of the entrepreneurial policy in the various state budgets, so that we now have a good basis for being entrepreneurs in Norway. I'm also glad to see that politics actually works. Last year we saw a record number of people start their own business. This suggests that very many wise heads have experienced e.g. losing the job, using the opportunities we now have through Innovation Norway – in particular the arrangements there, but also the Research Council – to establish and create our own business. So it's right that the Left has proposed and got through to set up a CapitalFUNN scheme. I mean, it's a very good idea. We need incentives for more people to invest in entrepreneurs. It is a scheme that is being treated in the Ministry of Finance – this is a tax incentive scheme – so I cannot answer where it is located and how it is designed. It's the Minister of Finance who comes back to Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e529	I thank you for your answer. Many start businesses, but we need more that do. As a little help to the Council of State in further work with the Ministry of Finance, I would like to mention that one of the countries we in the Left are taking inspiration from on this topic is the United Kingdom. There investors get 50 pst. tax reduction when they invest in new businesses. It is a powerful incentive to steer investment into new businesses. That seems to be very sensible to the Left. Therefore, the left considers it appropriate to provide for a mechanism that provides incentives as strong as those mentioned here. The left wants a system that is close to what the United Kingdom has in its order, i.e. nearly 50 pst. Can the Minister for Industry assure the Left that the incentives provided by this scheme will be sufficient to give the scheme the desired effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e534	It is our goal to comply with the Storting decision, as I have said earlier today, that should be just a lack. But the arrangement and design of the scheme must be answered by the Minister of Finance, and then I will gladly convey the wishes of the Left for the design of the scheme. What I agree with is that we also have to look at tax incentives, we have to look at options, we have to look at other parts of the company policy to get more people to invest in companies. We need more businesses, we need companies that can grow in Norway. Then we have to use the tools we have, and then tax policy is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e539	There will be follow-up questions – first Terje Breivik.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e544	Using tax incentives as a capital fund is a targeted measure to respond to one of the large bottlenecks emerging companies face – access to risk capital. I understand that the Minister is unable to respond to measures that lead to tax changes, but of course, the Left has several measures we have ambitions to get the government party on board to get private investors on the track in this so-called death valley. Such a measure is a prior authorisation of investors and/or start-up enterprises. If a pre-eligible investor, who has both access to capital and commercial competence approved by Innovation Norway, invests in a start-up enterprise, Innovation Norway accepts the same sum to the founder companies without applying or other bureaucracy. I expect the minister, on the basis of her own saying that she was interested in other schemes, to suggest that the large-scale groups of the government parties agree to have such an instrument distributed and implemented when the Left put it on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e549	Through these three and a half years, we have put in place a number of important schemes. We have strengthened institutional grants, we have strengthened institutional loans through Innovation Norway, and we have rolled out seed funds. One of the last things we rolled out was a pineapple fund. It is very good to get feedback that the drawing from the private – because it has been one of the challenges – is three times the size of the public contribution. This means that when the public contributes one sum of money, the private get on the job. We are constantly looking for good, targeted tools to raise investments in the early stages, especially in the growth phase, in the ‘valley of death’, as the representative rightly calls it, and we’ve invited – and I’m spending a lot of time meeting – entrepreneurs and investors to get involved. Of course, this proposal for the Left should also be discussed in a thorough and good manner. As I said, it's about setting up the instruments. I don't think we necessarily lack tools, but we have to arrange these so that they actually hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e556	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e562	I noticed that the Council of State did not respond when it came to tax incentives, but I think it might be equally important to talk about access to skills, because it is absolutely essential for new companies to succeed. In 2014, a report that the government itself had ordered said that one in four IT jobs were going to be available in 2030. Abelia has said that the government is heading for critical lack of competence. A little while ago, we could read the following headline at Digi.no. \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Relax to finding enough developers. It may force the ‘start-up of the year’ out of Norway. The case concerns Xeneta, who has been searching for developers for almost a year. This government has not proposed a single ICT study site, everything has been forced through in the Stockholm compromise. Hasn't the Council of State got through in its own government, or does she not understand how important technology competence is to develop the jobs of the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e572	Of course, when you choose to ask questions about taxes to people other than the Minister of Finance, you don't get answers. When you choose to ask education questions to the Minister of Industry, you should rather address them to the Minister of Knowledge. We've had a power surge in research and higher education. There has never been more money and a greater share of GDP. It's also the feedback we get from research and higher education. We've strengthened primary school, we've strengthened the real subjects, we've strengthened the apprenticeship system. We have strengthened the entire education cycle in Norway over the years we have been in government, and that is, of course, alpha and omega. A separate seed fund for the ICT industry is also being rolled out, just to get more entrepreneurs linked to this industry. We're leading the world on parts of the tech solutions, for example. linked to Finntech. We have a lot of very good environments. Of course, we're going to build on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e581	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e586	The world is changing. There is no doubt that we need the good ideas – and the people who dare to bet on them. We need entrepreneurs who are creative and solution-oriented, and who don't give up until an idea comes true. Norway has many of them, but we need more. Therefore, the question raised by Mr Farstad on CapitalFUNN is important. However, Norway is also a long-term country, with many different resources. It is important that we create jobs and facilitate entrepreneurs who also use local knowledge and take advantage of local and regional advantages, because I think that meeting local knowledge of local advantages and the creative head of entrepreneurs can really come up with the good ideas. Today, regional reform has been presented out here. Now we know what the regions will look like in the future. My question to the Council of State is: what will the Council of State do to facilitate entrepreneurs to take care of and use the regional advantages that we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e593	I think the founders do. Many examples can be seen — for example: within the tourism industry – entrepreneurs throughout the country. Founders are as common in cities as in districts. It's not like you have to live in a city to be a successful founder. On the contrary, what the government has done to widen the arrangements that we have in Innovation Norway, which we have in the Research Council, is very important. It is not necessary to have a label attached to a university or city in order to have access to important schemes in the Research Council and Innovation Norway. You can receive grants whether you live in Alta, in Arendal or in Oslo. It should not be excluded whether you live in the districts or whether you live in the cities. I think the most important thing we can do is have good tools. We've increased our stakes by 3 billion. kr during the period of this government. I now meet record people who take advantage of the time we are in, and of the opportunities you can get, to create your own business in the area in which you yourself are good, and which is very often linked to the geographic location.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e600	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e605	We are eagerly waiting for what is going to happen in the case of the CapitalFUNN in the revised national budget – whether something is going to happen or how big an arrangement is going to be. Business start-ups and district entrepreneurs are particularly vulnerable to the possibility of setting up and developing their own business. They have been particularly vulnerable at two points in the last period. One is that this government has completely destroyed a number of schemes that have worked very well against business start-ups and entrepreneurs in the districts, namely the regional development funds allocated from the counties to businesses and entrepreneurs throughout the country. The second is that this year after year the government has also reduced the broadband system, and that, in reality, in the case of high-speed broadband, we currently have a geographical digital class division, which is a major problem for business operators as well. There are many general instruments. I understand that it is Alta and Arendal that are defined as districts in the eyes of the Council of State, but the question is, why does the government choose to destroy incentives that are specifically targeted at the districts? Why do they also choose not to try to remove the emerging class distinction in relation to broadband access?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e612	I'm very happy that the red-green parties are now too tax incentives. There was nothing on the agenda in the eight years they were driving Norway. With regard to the solutions we have chosen, it's just about using the whole country. I have been busy having tools that hit. That is why, unlike those before us, we have carried out a very thorough analysis of the mechanisms that provide innovation, which provide value creation. Unfortunately, the means to which the representative refers did not have the effect you would like. It's not that they have a good innovation effect. We should do things differently, and that is what we do when we strengthen schemes in Innovation Norway and in the Research Council. Tax FUNN is the most successful arrangement we have. It hits all businesses – small and large – in absolutely the whole country. We should spend more money on what works, and less on what doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e621	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e626	State councils can only really come back. Finally, the government's strategy for the marine environment, which has been so much in the last four years. After reading him, it starts out very well. Here is a reference to the importance of the sea for the development of modern Norway, the development of Trondheim and Bergen by means of the rich coastal fishing and the importance of this for the development of the marine industries and for offshore and petroleum industry. But where the government has clearly understood the importance of fishing, it has obviously not understood how important they are, because in the marine strategy, the sea is produced as a dreary theater, where there is special room for its major actors to dream about the sea. Here the sea is considered to be an endless one, where all its dreams can be fulfilled, where real conflicts are pushed under the carpet, and where the government boasts oil and gas, mineral food and aquaculture. The fishermen, the coastal communities and the living life of the sea, which is the starting point for Norway to be the best at sea, are given little space. It is as if the coastal people have become the considerate, the ones who stand in the way of progress. No, the sea shall be cleared for others, most petroleum, mineral and aquaculture. To illustrate the whole, the word ‘petroleum’ is mentioned in the strategy 90 times. The word fishing is referred to as 18 times. The word'mineral' is referred to as 29 times, for comparison. The word "fishes" is not mentioned once in the government's maritime strategy. It's kind of a historical trick over such an achievement. So my question to the minister is, what is the reason why the marine strategy is more about what's under the sea than about the life that's living in it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e639	I note that the negative reports that have been made after the government presented its maritime strategy yesterday have come from the Workers' Party and SV. Let me say that I didn't get very surprised. Some have also learned that this is what we have spent a long time on. It's been almost nine months since we organized a major marine conference in Bergen, 30 May last year, where we said we should start working on a sea strategy – that's nine months. Those months we have used to travel around and get recordings from those who work in the marine industries. So there are 250,000 Norwegians who go to work every day in the marine industry, and it has been important for us not to make a desk product, but to produce a product that the industries, businesses, researchers, organizations and institutions recognize. We've got over 300 recordings. We've put them together in the strategy, with 95 follow-up points. I can assure the representative that when I started yesterday and presented the sea strategy in Bergen, I said, as the first and most important, that basically our very proud story is about people, about what's on, in and under the sea. It's about skilled fishermen, skilled seafarers, skilled scientists and skilled engineers. There are people who have brought us where we are, and there are people who are going to bring us on. Then we have a series of follow-up actions in the various areas, and it's about taking advantage of the amazing opportunities available at, in and below the sea to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e651	I would like to congratulate the Council of State on being the first to mention the word «fisherman» in connection with the proposed maritime strategy officially here at Stortinget. Let me invite you up to Solvik-Olsen to illustrate another point that goes the same, because ocean strategy means little without ports. In spite of large words about oatmeal, the government cuts in the bet on fishing ports; only 86 pst. by the actions of today’s NTP are being implemented. On the government investment side, only Båtsfjord and Mehamn are funded this year. Gjerdsvika, Breivikbotn, Fosnavåg, Årviksand, Vannavalen and Kamøyvær are in blue. In the case of local authorities, the situation is even more precarious. Here are applications for a total of 400 million. kr, while the pot is only 60. Gamvik, Vardø, Karlsøy – 45 applications are pending. So how can you say that a bet on the sea, sea food and the coast, and then cut into the ports?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e658	Let's be clear what we're comparing to. If one compares how many dollars today's government spends on this compared to the previous government, we actually spend more money along the coast than the previous government did, it spends more money. So it's true that there were plans for even a little bit more, which means that the redemption rate is less than 100 pst. But if you compare heads for heads -- how much do we use, how much use SV -- we actually use more. And when one makes an increase like a cut, I would like to remind you of what the former Prime Minister, Stoltenberg, said that if you really want to take the lift to the seventh floor, but get off on the fifth floor – and you went on the first floor – you've come up higher anyway, while SV makes it like you've taken the trip down the basement. That's not right. It's just as little right as when the representative Arnstad gives the impression that there's little use of broadband in the districts. No, there is more focus in the areas where the need is, as in Sogn and Fjordane, where the bet is quadrupled. But it is true that in urban areas there is less money to subsidize the development of fibre, because the market takes care of it itself. It's about targeting the effort, and it's doing today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e665	There will be follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e670	My follow-up question goes to Søviknes. The majority of the population has decided on two occasions that the government should invest in sea wind. Unfortunately, it seems that the government has made it part of its image to give the tip of the Storting decision. On 1 December 2015, the Stortinget adopted: ‘The Government asks the Energy Communication Government to present a strategy to contribute to the realisation of demonstration projects for liquid sea winds [[...]] That wasn't the energy message. Therefore, on 13 June 2016, Stortinget made a further attempt at decision: ‘The Government is asked to provide by 2017 at the latest a support mechanism for the realisation of demonstration projects for liquid sea winds and other forms of ocean-based renewable technology.’ The only feature of this strategy is that the government will ‘aim to clarify’ what areas it may be appropriate to allow for applications for concession on sea wind. This is not in the vicinity of following up the decision of the Storting, on which the government's own parties at Stortinget were involved, and therefore I ask: Does the Council intend to do a job as bad as its predecessors to build sea winds in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e687	'Gi blaffen i' is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e692	The government and my predecessor have been working on renewables throughout this period of government, and so will I as the Council of State. Marine wind is possible in Norway. We also have large wind resources at sea, but the cost picture of sea wind versus wind from land has so far shown that it is better to use the wind resources we have on the mainland. That is why it is exciting to see the expansion that is now taking place in Norway on the wind; it is becoming competitive, mainly with mainland investment. Then we see that developments are fast, costs have fallen in terms of both sea wind and continental wind, and I think that here the market must work. We will of course return to Stortinget regarding the request decisions to which the representative referred. We're still only in mid-February when it comes to 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e701	Else-May Botten – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e706	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. The marine strategy is a long one and – you ask me – unfinished document with many fine words, but those of us who have expected a plan to harvest further into the food chain can read that the harvesting potential should be assessed, that it should be organised, etc., and we can also read that we must closely monitor developments in the yard industry, conduct an investigation into an up-to-date knowledge base, etc. But this is also about people, as the Minister of Industry himself said. Many people actually have jobs related to the marine environment, so it's not just the technicalities it's important to get in place. But then it is very strange to read this strategy, because pay and working conditions are not mentioned at all, and how to build up under it to ensure the pay and working conditions of employees on a Norwegian base, among others. Why hasn't the Council of State put in leadership and commitment around this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e715	As I said, I record that the Workers' Party and SV are critical of the message – it is not very surprising. What is much more important for the government is that the Marine Research Institute, the NHO, the University of Bergen, the Shipowners' Association, the Norwegian Industry, the Kongsberg Group and the Ulstein Group are very pleased with the announcement. It's those who work in these industries, those who know the industries, and it's those who know the challenge potential in the industries. When the representative refers to pay and work issues, I must remind you that we presented a maritime strategy in May 2015, where these issues have been duly examined, and that he should also be duly returned to today's regular Question Time. This is a strategy that brings together Norwegian maritime policy for the first time. Over 250,000 people work in the marine industry; we have a fantastic potential to provide the world with food, medicines, minerals, new transport solutions. That's the potential we're going to extract. Then you have to build on knowledge, and first of all you have to get more knowledge about what's possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e724	Pål Farstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e729	I'm glad that a sea strategy is in place – let's not say that. But one of the key prerequisites and really also the challenges of being able to call ourselves a port is that we cut our oceans in terms of renewable resources, fish and other marine resources, that is, what's in the sea, and that we provide clean seas. We don't do that by taking the chance, for example. mining waste. What does the Council of State think about that? How does the Council of State think that we are facing our markets for, for example, seafood in such a perspective? So I'm going to start with the landfill of minerals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e735	Without going into the individual issues here, because it's not up to my department to be responsible for, I think that those decisions are based on knowledge, and that's knowledge that's brought us to where we are today, and that's knowledge that's going to take us further. We have also made some decisions based on very thorough assessments of those who have the professional ballast to be able to make decisions. It has formed the basis for the government's decisions, and they think I've been quite right based on the knowledge we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e742	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e747	It's good that we've got a sea strategy, and it's worrying that it's still up to those degrees of oil. One can discuss whether oil production has anything to do with the sea, but essentially the challenge is: what are we going to live on next to and after oil? Although one, like the government, is of the opinion that the oil business will last a long time, which I both hope and believe the government is wrong, the solution will also be for an oil business that will live on a much lower oil price than that which is ‘break even’ – Statoil operates with 80 dollars as a target, today the price is 55 – automation and cut in jobs. Can the Council of State specify what is the objective of producing jobs in marine industries other than oil?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e754	It's really very simple. It's that the opportunities we have in a country that has six times more seas than it has land, with a hundred years old history, give us some great opportunities to get new jobs, new industries. What we know, and what the OECD has estimated, is that 40 million people worldwide are going to be connected to the marine industries in 2030. Norway must take the lead here. We all have advantages, we have a lot of technology especially in the petroleum sector, we have a lot of technology we've developed in seafood, fishing and farming, and we have a lot of technology in the maritime sector. The change in the maritime sector has gone through, from sail to steam to now high-tech ships, has been absolutely amazing. So yes – automation, robotization gives us some challenges, but it also gives us great opportunities to create jobs, and that's the government's goal with this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e759	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e764	My question is to the Minister of Transport. In 2014, the NSB went by 1.5 billion. kr in profit and in 2015 by SEK 1,3 billion. kr in profit. Large amounts have been returned to the community in the form of dividends in recent years. Now the government no longer budgets with dividends from the NSB, for the NSB is unable to deliver it, as a result of the government’s wing-cutting of the company. The NSB now loses its trains to a new company, the NSB loses its workshops to a new company, the NSB loses its properties, and the NSB loses its ticket system. This is a wild policy on the part of the government. Instead of further developing the NSB, the government now wants Chinese and other foreign companies to drive trains in Norway. If a private owner had done such things with its companies as the government does with its company NSB, it would have been called slaughter. The Minister of Transport is now slaughtering the NSB. My question is to the Minister of Transport – and now I don't want to hear the usual phrases about the railway reform – as owner of the company NSB: What will the Minister of Transport and NSB, and what kind of company is NSB in five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e773	My goal is that NSB is the best train company in the world in five years. They shall be best placed to provide train services: on-board trains, an attractive route offer and attractive on-board services, so that more and more people want to travel by train. That's my vision. What we're doing now with the NSB is making sure that we can focus on the main tasks of the NSB, namely driving trains and delivering good services to their travelers. The story that the representative Myrli here tells has no relevance to what he's freaking out with. It is true that there have been situations where private operators buy up a company, split it up and then sell it again. But for everything we do here: it's the same owner of the whole package. The difference is that instead of the fact that the NSB is also going to be a property company – not a train company, but a property company – we say that is what we're going to collect in Bane NOR, which is going to have the real estate business. Then the surplus doesn't disappear, it's still being maintained. It's just that the difference is that now it's still owned by the Ministry of Transport, so giving the impression that one here privatizes and loses something is just nonsense. The same applies to the ticketing system. As I mentioned earlier, it's not like we're separating the ticket system and creating something from the bottom that never existed, just to get rid of it. We're taking it in as part of what the Ministry of Transport owns, because it's not just going to serve the NSB, it's going to serve the entire collective sector. It helps to strengthen Norway as a collective society when it comes to getting more people to travel by bus and train, just to avoid having to have many different apps and many different ticket systems. The profits that Myrli's representative is talking about are not going to go away. It's just that the profit that ROM Property has generated within the NSB, now goes over to Bane NOR, for which the state still owns, and for which I am still a general assembly. So there's no difference here. It's just that we get better control because we get all the property in one place, instead of the railway station owning something, the NSB owns something, and a different people who traveled around and controlled the same area. Now one person controls the same area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e782	After all, the idea of the Question Time is that the representatives of the big business should ask the members of the government, and the members of the government should reply preferably to the questions asked by the big business representatives. The Minister of Transport has basically not answered any of what he has been asked about today, neither from Navarsette, from Odnes, from Holmås, nor from me. My question is, what does he want with the NSB? What kind of company does he think NSB is in five years? The Minister of Transport said recently that he wanted the NSB to drive trains. Why in the world does the Minister for Transport then write in the big message, which forms the basis for the political treatment of the rail reform, that he wants more actors in the railway sector? He wants more than one NSB to run trains. He wants to wing-clip the NSB. He wants more companies. But now he says he wants the NSB to drive a train. Why does he initiate the railway reform if he wanted the NSB to run all the trains in Norway? That's not right. I ask the question again: What kind of company does the Minister for Transport think NSB will be in five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e791	My vision is as strong now as it was 2 minutes ago: I want the NSB to be the best company in the world to drive trains, precisely because it will withstand competition. It is a little strange that when the Workers' Party started its election campaign in January in Bergen, it was on board the City Railway. Who's running the City Railway? Is that the municipality of Bergen? Is that NSB? Is it a state-owned company? No, it's actually a Frenchid company called Keolis. It's a little strange that the Workers' Party thinks the City Railway is doing so great when it's a French-id company that does it. But the belief that the NSB should not be able to compete against them in Norway, I think more evidence is that the Workers' Party believes that foreign companies are better at operating train services in Norway than Norwegian companies. I think the opposite. I believe that when the NSB is able to win assignments in Sweden through the Train Company, they will also be able to win assignments in Norway. But I think we actually stimulate them through competition. We see that Nettbuss now delivers its best result ever. Netbuses are owned by the NSB system and exposed to competition. And they have 7 pst. market share in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e800	There will be follow-up questions – first Kjell-Idar Juvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e805	The draft Progress Party programme states that NSB should be sold. There is no new policy from the Progress Party, which also has one-sided belief that privatisation is the only gratifying thing. The sale of NSB and free competition on the track will contribute to a weakened offer not least in the districts, and it could provide both a more expensive and a poorer offer to the many. The Council of State has previously said that today's government does not intend to sell out the NSB. But now we're going towards a big decision, and we're going to make a new big deal and a new government. It might therefore be interesting to hear whether the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party agrees with the programme draft for the Progress Party. Will the Council of State now clarify once and for all whether he will make proposals to privatize the NSB in the future, in line with what he has actually gone to elections on?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e813	The Labour Party is trying this many times in the storeroom, and I've said it every time that program processing in a single batch does not happen in the storeroom, it happens at the country meeting. But let me just take some of the statements that represent Juvik, because they're not right. I feel the need to say that the Workers' Party should actually attend a seminar where we had gone through the railway reform, so they could see what it was, and not what the Workers' Party thinks it is. Because it's not like it's the NSB that defines what kind of train offer it should be in the districts. When the representative Juvik gives the impression that the railway reform will mean that the NSB can have fewer departures in the districts, it is not right, because it is the state that buys the take-offs. We've said we're going to have more departures, not fewer. There are several departures from Oslo S now, but there are also several departures in Trondheim, there are several departures on the Jærbanen, there are several departures largely across the country, because today's government spends more money on providing train services to people. Where the representative of Juvik's government made sure that the railway was over, we will ensure that it is maintained and that it goes more often. I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e820	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e825	Instead, Ketil Solvik-Olsen – and it also came up now – said that this railway reform was not a means of giving people poorer pay and working conditions. It's with all due respect to underestimate all the other representatives sitting here in the Storting, and it's a description of the reality that's not accurate. After all, everyone knows that the private tariff agreements that exist under the transport system are worse — especially in the field of pensions — than public occupational pensions and the pensions of NSB staff are. When faced with competition, there is every reason to believe that there is a lower level of pension. That is why I ask the same question that I have asked twice earlier in the Questionnaire, but I have not received an answer to: Can the Council of State Solvik-Olsen guarantee that he will secure all NSB employees over 55 years of age who will have to change employers if you launch an NSB, an AFP scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e830	For once in this hall I say that earned rights are something you have earned. That's the answer to the question. I understand that Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will not accept it, but the AFP system is an earned right as seen. It's a pretty strange thing, because SV is in charge of some cities around, and SV has been in charge of this country. There was competition on goods, transport and rail when SV was in government. Now, all of a sudden, competition is bad stuff, but they practiced it themselves. There is competition on the air market, there is a tender for who will operate airport services in the districts, there is a tender for bus services – some of the biggest bus offers that the industry is currently waiting for are in Trondheim, where the red-green rules for the third year in a row. It's a little weird if it's cruel to have competition in rail passenger transport, but it's totally okay in freight transport, it's okay with busses, ferries, speedboats and airplanes. I can't understand what's the difference between this and this. SV defends it in all areas, but when there's one thing that changes, suddenly the world is trapped. I will promise the representative that we will land well on our legs this time too, and the travellers will receive a better offer with a civil government than they received with a socialist government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e837	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e851	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Mr Q. Raja to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has declared himself insolvent. Question 13, from the representative of Geir Pollestad to the Minister for Economic Affairs, will be addressed by the representative of Sofie Margrethe Selvikvåg. Question 15, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare who will direct him. Question 24, by Mr Karianne O. Heavy to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of Culture on behalf of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who has been away. Question 26, from the representative Lise Wiik to the Minister for Justice and Security, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare who will direct him. The question is proposed, at the request of the Minister of Health and Welfare, moved and answered on question 20, to be dealt with by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e873	‘Just before the end of the year, the Skatetaten took a decision in principle that a negotiated agreement with a public transport company on discounted time tickets for employees would be subject to tax that public transport is used in connection with work, even if this is not something in which the employer is involved. [[remarks]] The basis for the decision of principle is a statement by the Ministry of Finance, almost 10 years old, that it has a tax liability. Is the Council of State in agreement with this 10-year-old interpretation of the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e880	The Tax Directorate published, before the end of the year, an opinion on the tax liability of a fixed-term ticket on public transport to which employees are granted access because of their employment. This is not an expression of a new legal opinion, but a confirmation of previous opinions. The question raised by Mr Breivik is that: «time tickets for employees will be taxable for the use of public transport services in connection with employment». [[...]] The Tax Directorate’s opinion concerns employees who purchase discounted collective cards for private use. Period tickets for public transport services in connection with employment, which employees do not provide privately, do not confer a taxable advantage on the employee. The starting point of the Tax Act is that any economic advantage gained by employment is taxable, regardless of whether the benefit consists of money or benefits in kind, to which discounts are an example. The tax obligation also applies to benefits in kind provided by persons other than the employer, when there is a link between receiving the benefit and working conditions. This also applies when the employer does not have direct costs for the benefit himself, but where her negotiating strength or other position is decisive for the benefit of the employees. Discounts on travel expenses between home and work are also included in the benefit concept. Where a discount on a collective card for private use is available only to persons working with certain employers and not to others, there will normally be a sufficient link between the employment relationship and the discount. The taxable benefit is set at the difference between the price in the scheme and the market price outside employment. If the cards in the scheme have different characteristics than those most offered to people, the market price has to be estimated in the specific case. The employer must report the benefit of the a scheme, calculate the employer’s contribution and implement tax credits. The Ministry of Finance issued an opinion in 2007 based on the legal status I have just mentioned. This legal status was also the basis of an unpublished, binding ex ante opinion given by the Tax Directorate to Deloitte in December 2015. The opinion concerned an employer who considered joining the HomeJobHome scheme. This is a scheme for companies in Rogaland that allows employees in participating enterprises to obtain some significant discounts on collective cards. The scheme is supported by, among others: Rogaland County Municipality, the transport company Columbus and the City Cycle. The binding ex ante opinion of the Tax Directorate concludes that collective cards purchased under this scheme provide a taxable benefit gained from work. Nevertheless, in January 2016, the law firm in question concluded in an open letter that the HomeJobHome ticket offered to employees in activities related to the scheme cannot be considered a taxable advantage. The government wants more people to travel collectively, and we are working to improve the collective offer, in cooperation with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e908	Thanks for the answer. One thing is that this must be a very bureaucratic system, not least for an employer. However, in order to follow up on the conclusion of the Minister, the aim of adding reduced tickets must be primarily to reduce the use of cars, especially in central areas. The system will often result from – as the minister also refers to in his main response – cooperation between public administrations and public society. In my opinion, we need more and no fewer tools to reduce car use, especially in central areas. Does the Council of State see that this nominee, who originated in the Minister's department, has an unfortunate effect in that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e917	The representative Breivik has now asked me to describe the current legal situation, and I have done so. Then, of course, there is a political question of wanting to implement fiscally more favourable schemes in order to stimulate the use of the collective service. The government, in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, has done a lot to strengthen the commitment to collective solutions in and around the big cities. That's the most important thing we do to make it easier for more people to choose collectively. It's about having good deals and frequent departures. That is why we have initially used the resources to build up the offer, so that it should be available. Of course, if you want to discuss fiscally favourable schemes, it is a priority issue for government budgets. But I would like to stress that there are some new limitations to this, too – whether you are looking after people who are in employment, or students and others who are not in employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e926	Of course, I agree with the Minister that the Left, the Government Party and the Christian People's Party have done a lot of good when it comes to strengthening collective services, which, after all, are very central. But if I recapitulate, the minister said in his first answer that in principle, in cash in kind is taxable as a salary. I record a certain inconsistency in this way, for every year we can read about tax-free benefits that employers can pay without being taxed as wages. Parking space in central strokes is one such example, which then works in the opposite direction of what is being taxed today. In the light of these statements, does the Council of State think that parking spaces should be taxed in that case, or could it be as smart and bureaucratic as changing the basic principle behind the tax – or non-taxation – of good-for-profit?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e933	On the one hand, I think it is important that we have the same rules as we can in terms of taxation of benefits in kind. There are from time to time reasons to review this, including to see if there is room for regulatory simplification. I'm a fan of that. On the other hand, I am also concerned that we need sufficient flexibility in the availability of workers. Not everyone can choose collective solutions. Many people still depend on using a car to and from work. So I don't think we need to set up transport policy or tax policy unilaterally in order to stimulate the increased use of collective solutions. We also have to recognise that we live in a long-distance country, where the car is still an important means of entry, and which should not be ‘grunted’ in relation to other solutions and choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e943	This question, from the representative Abid Q. Raja to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has declared himself insolvent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e948	‘The Ministry of Finance recently rejected Mr Silver’s application for a postponement of the deadline to meet new capital requirements. As a result, payments from Silver to current pensioners will stop with immediate effect. At the same time, there is a significant risk that it will lead to a cut of 30-40 pst. in the saved policies of Silver customers who are still at work. What are the negative consequences for the state, Silver and Silver customers, respectively, of a further delay of a few months?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e955	Let me open by saying that now it is essential to take care of Silver's customers. The Administrative Board will inter alia: assess, as soon as possible, the possibilities of maintaining pension payments in full or in part during the work of the Administrative Board. I want to say that I think we all agree that it is very important to have rules that contribute to the safety of Norwegian pensions. It was therefore a unanimous increase in 2015 that adopted new capital requirements for insurance undertakings. Silver Pension Insurance AS was placed under public administration on Friday because the company does not meet the capital requirements imposed by Stortinget, despite the fact that the company has been suspended twice. The government was initially set to give Silver a further derogation, well to notice if they could document progress in the process of finding a solution. If they had been close to a solution, they would also have had an opportunity to get to the goal. The problem, however, was that Silver was not in the vicinity of any solution. There was no lack of cooperation from the Norwegian authorities that caused them not to arrive, either in Liechtenstein or in other countries that this company has tried to enter, but simply a lack of money. When we see that Silver is a company that offers free cops to make a guaranteed annual payment to the pensioners, it is our crucial role to ensure that the company can meet its obligations, not only for those who receive the pension now, but also for those customers who are to have the pension paid in the future. When the company could not then be sure that a solution was within reach, we had to set a finish line for the customers, the pensioners. It is difficult to predict what the outcome would be, but for the sake of accountability and for the customers, the pensioners, it was now important to put a strain on this in order to secure the capital and the money that the pensioners, the customers, have in the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e966	That is precisely why I address this question, we want to take care of the 20,000 customers that are affected by this. Silver submitted a request for a temporary extension on Thursday morning last week against the state's decision to place Silver under public administration. On Thursday afternoon, Oslo decided to summon the state and Silver to the trial in the case. Already on Friday, it was agreed that such a meeting would take place in week 10 or 11. A few hours later that same day, the Ministry of Finance is running the decision of the judiciary and is putting Silver under public administration. Is the Council of State comfortable with the fact that in this way the Department is overrun by the courts and prevents Silver from having his case tried in court? Does the Council of State consider this to be a worthy act on the part of the State? And why and how can the Progress Party in the Government allow such a potential pension of over 20,000 customers in Silver?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e975	The claim about the pensioner must be addressed by the representative Raja. It might be worse than that if the government had not taken the responsibility it takes, in the wake of the decisions and the laws that the representative Raja has also voted for. It is not the government or the Progress Party that is responsible. Silver is responsible for not being able to meet the requirements, and it is Silver's responsibility that they also failed to find another solution to secure their customers' pensions. There was a lack of money that made Silver not reach Liechtenstein either. The financial supervision in Liechtenstein has said that the police in Silver would have met the same capital requirements as in Norway. After the information I'm sitting with, this company, Silver, has also tried ten or eleven other countries to figure this out, but found no solution. They've also been thinking about flagging out to Sweden. It has not been a solution either. So it was time to put a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e982	It must be incredibly embarrassing for the Progress Party Councils that they are now committing a pension of 20,000 customers. We have seen that the local councils have said that it is running out of money, and that it was therefore important for customers to put Silver under administration. But based on what we understand, the customer's pension capital is intact, and Silver also has an equity of approximately. 400 million. kr. The company has, according to what I understand, covered all current liabilities and has money in cash for many years to come. It's a foster company that the state now chooses to confiscate. The reason is that the company can run out of money many decades in time. In its calculations, the Ministry of Finance has assumed that the current level of interest rates will last for another 50 years. Moreover, in Europe, this is managed smoothly and well-balanced so as to safeguard the interests of customers, society and owners. Can the State Council explain why Norwegian pension customers should be protected by far stricter capital requirements than Swedish pension customers with the same schemes as Silver customers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e987	It is a paradox that the representative Raja of the Left, who has voted in favour of these requirements himself, now claims that the requirements adopted by the Stortinget are the result of a pensioner. I think it's a little early to fly as high as the representative Raja does at this moment. It was this big deal – unanimous, with the votes of Left and Raja – that adopted the new capital requirements for insurance companies in April 2015. The new requirements, for which the Left and the representative Raja voted, are precisely based on EU rules that were introduced in all EU and EEA countries. The company Silver has committed – committed – long-term commitments with interest rate guarantees through free police. The old code captured, among other things, not increase the risk as a result of the long-term fall in interest rates. The new capital requirements for which the Left – once again – has voted reflect this risk for the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e997	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘From 1 April, there is a new ‘FOT route’ period in Nord-Trøndelag and Nord-Norway. Refuse won the contract, and there is great dissatisfaction with both increased prices, fewer departures and changed departure times. There is also great dissatisfaction with cutting past practice of not sending new timetables to consultation before they are implemented. All these measures are a consequence of new tendering criteria. How much does the State save on the new contracts and does the Council consider this to be proportionate to the deterioration in the provision of air services in the districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1006	It's a little strange to hear that everything gets a lot worse when we know that somewhere the ticket prices go up, somewhere they go down, somewhere disappearing flight routes, somewhere else they're going to. There has been a steady increase in the number of flights in North Norway. There are more flight movements at the 30 smallest aerodromes today than when the Workers' Party crashed. It is a little strange that this is a crisis today, when it was perfectly acceptable just during the Workers' Party. There will always be changes in a market. I fly a lot to Stavanger, where I have my family. There are fewer departures there now than it was a few years ago. You adjust the offer a little bit to the times people travel. That's exactly what we're seeing, that Andreøe is also doing. There have not been very many changes in the minimum requirements imposed by the State, but some sites have Widened down routes which they offered in addition to the minimum requirements before, simply because the market has changed. These include: on the economic situation in the oil sector. I am concerned that we should have the best possible flight offer in this country. That is why we have encouraged that there should be more routes – we think it is good with competition. I think it is fantastic when the airline FlyViking establishes itself and will offer travel many more places. This shows that the market is working. The location of the market is not large enough for one to have a commercial activity, the state goes in and buys the services. It's a system that I think is good. We want to get as much money as possible back for taxpayers, while at the same time having the best possible offer for the local population, and that is the balance we can find. In the offer we had, there were some pages that we later saw were not good enough. For example, it did. that one did not get the routes you wanted to get to Finnmark. We then went back and made changes. I notice that the Workers' Party is very concerned that there should be a public, state-run consultation on this – that it had solved the problems. But then I pointed out that it was maintained by the contact that was directly with Onderøe. I have received the same question earlier in Stortinget from the Workers' Party that I am now receiving, and my answer is the same: it is much better that the local operators who believe that the routes should have been adjusted a little bit, go to the operator who delivers the routes, instead of doing a political thing about it. After all, we see that the very contact that many regions have made with them has changed the draft that they presented in the autumn in relation to what they actually put on the market. The other side of this matter that I think is important is that in the requirements we have set, on most flights there are demands for more seats, which are to be delivered during the year, than it has been before. We have said that there should be more flexibility so that airlines can provide services when they see that there are most people travelling. That means that there will be fewer situations where the planes are full, simply because one can adapt better to the market. It also leads to a variation in the provision of air services during the year – simply to provide the best services when most are traveling.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1021	I record that the State Council in its customary style chooses not to answer the question. For the question was whether he is satisfied with the steps taken in terms of the economy in this. When he does not want to answer, I can tell you that already in the 2017 budget, the purchase of air routes has decreased by 50 million. kr. What I have been informed about in addition, is that the full-year effect of the new flights is minus 120 million. kr. This means that less money is spent on air travel. It will basically also mean getting a worse job, and that's what we see. The fact that the Council of State is satisfied is alarming because from 1 April there will be fewer flights, they will go to other times, and there will be higher prices. It is not correct that more seats have been inserted anywhere – yes, some seats, but seat requirements have also been reduced. So it depends on where you are relative to the individual airport. But my question was, Will the Council of State take further action to improve the offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1030	Firstly, I am very pleased that the representative Juvik has found an answer to the question he asked me. The answer was in the budget documents. Then it is a little strange that he criticises me for not providing information here when this information has been available to Stortinget all the way. So I also point out that some places get a better offer, some places get a slightly worse offer, but there is no place for the offer to go. This is simply because we set the same minimum requirements. Onkøe has delivered several departures on a number of routes than it was required, because there were so many passengers that they see that they can make money on it. And we put the net contract down. The representative Juvik gives the impression that the only thing that makes the flight routes exist is the subsidy itself. But he completely forgets that the main revenue from these routes is the ticket revenue. If there are more people travelling, the airline will have an incentive to set up more flights. That's exactly what makes that e.g. FlyViking now enters several road areas in North Norway – because they think it is an uncovered potential, without state subsidies, think it!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1039	What is clear is that the requirements were changed in the tender criteria. The maximum price was significantly higher than the price increase. That more flights are going on today and more travels, should just be missing, we're talking about a completely different year than the last time we crashed. Take my own home aerodrome as an example: To get to the regional capital, which is Bodø, today, there are four flights going every way. You can also get from the Lofoten and the Westphalian in the morning to Mo in Rana, which is, after all, the third largest city in northern Norway. From 1 April it is not possible to get there in the morning. You don't get from the Lofoten, Leknes, the West Pole and these areas via Bodø to get to Mo in Rana, because it's so early that it's gone when you get there. That means you have to travel the day before if you're going to attend a meeting there. Clearly, there are many people here who are getting a worse offer. In the past, it was also such, as I said, that the routes were sent out to the hearing, and there was no large bureaucratic system. Will the Council of State take the initiative to change this in the future, so that when changing these routes it can be consulted?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1048	It is true that changes have been made. I think it happens every time FOT routes are on offer, because we have external professionals going through and looking at how travel flows have changed since the last time: where can a strength it, where does one no longer need to have subsidy schemes, and where can the subsidy scheme be strengthened? During the Workers' Party, several routes were taken out of the subsidy scheme, simply because one so that there was no longer any need for subsidies. This has also gone out and complained about during today's government, even though it was his own government that took out the arrangement. The point has been to ensure equal treatment between actors. I register that the representative Juvik sent out an e-mail internally which was not supposed to be seen by the Council of State, where he said that now the new FOT routes have come out, in some places it is strengthened, while elsewhere it is weakened, so let's go out and hang on the government! It's a little bit of the impression I'm having here, that even though you've got a good or better offer in many places, it gives the impression that everything's gotten really bad. I think that's bad. Because it talks down the region, and thus the business will to invest in the region, if you get the impression that everything is bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1058	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions, which many are concerned about in Eastfold: ‘The railway through Eastfold is important for efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport through the county, and particularly important for those who commute daily by rail to work in Oslo. Unfortunately, the capacity of NSB trains and train lines through Østfold is exploded in several departures. The trains during the rush hour are therefore filled with commuters who have to stand because of too few train sets on these departures. They're late for work. daily delays. What will the Council of State actually do to remedy this situation now?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1067	There are several themes listed here. One is about capacity, and the other is about predictability. When it comes to predictability, I think we can show that we've done a lot. We have a different approach to maintenance, it's a higher priority. The maturity of the railway is now reduced, while it increased earlier. As we get replaced with equipment, which means that one doesn't have it in function until it collapses, but replaces it before it collapses, that means that one gets increased regularity. So we see that 2015 was the first year that one could deliver according to the requirements you had on the railway, precisely because we have spent a lot of money on maintenance since the government change. Today, the budget is more than twice the size of maintenance compared to the government change. The previous government actually had a reduction in its maintenance effort on the road and rail in recent years. It's about prioritizing errors, I mean. This will gradually increase predictability by the arrival of trains when they are due. But that's not how we're there yet. There are still too many old components that we have not replaced, but the rate is much higher. The second is to have sufficient material. Even if the trains are on route or not, if people stay standing as herring in barrels, it is not pleasant. We want more people to travel by rail, and they want to experience it as a good offer. When people stand as herrings in barrels, it suggests that the railway is basically competitive when people tolerate it. But that's not how we want it to be. That's why we buy new train sets. During the previous government orders for Flirt trains were started – a very good trainset. We have extended and reinforced these orders, which means that at least every month new trainsets are being deployed. In some places it increases capacity, in others it replaces existing trainsets that are more or less out of order. At the end of this year, there will also be new train sets, which we will put on the Gjøvik track, where one has a train set that should have been scrapped a long time ago, I think. What's the challenge especially on the track is that the Flirt trains that are have a length that makes one already exploit the platforms. That means putting on even more trainsets isn't necessarily easy. The second is that there is no room for multiple take-offs on the track – the capacity is detonated. That's why we're building the Folloban, for which I think both parties have been good champions. But it takes time to burst through so many mountains, so it takes a few years before that capacity can be put into use. Then I think we'll have solved this. But until then, it's quite challenging simply because we're not able to conjure up new rail tracks. What's a solution that I'm told is that you're looking at, is whether it's possible to rent a two-stroke train set for a period of time just to make better use of the height when you can't use the length or increase the frequencies. This is something that the new material company we have set up will look at on the order from the Directorate of Railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1086	This is a situation that has lasted over the year. And to say it's a little popular, I think maybe the Eastern folds have been kept for a long time, just because you keep saying that it's getting better when we get out of Oslo–Ski, it gets better when we get this summer's maintenance program done, it gets better when we get bought in more trains. And then we see that the new trains are being deployed elsewhere, and on the Eastfold course, it's not going to be better. We are aware that it will be better when Oslo-Ski is built, and also when the double-track through Østfold is further built from Moss and southwards. But I am also interested in keeping the commuters who are there today, so that they do not switch to other means of transport. So what can you actually do now? Some questions: why maintain comfort compartments, quiet wagons, etc.? Is there anything the minister can do now, so that people can sit?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1093	I mentioned some of what they're now looking at, for example. the use of two-seater trainsets. On some sections it'll be difficult, because it's usually about tunnel heights and things like that. Things indicate that there won't be a problem on this route, and therefore there's something you can look at even if it doesn't solve the problems elsewhere. But as I mentioned, today there is a burst of capacity on the track. This means that it is not possible to install multiple trainsets or multiple take-offs unless nothing else disappears. In the case of Oslo-Ski, it is possible that people have been kept for a long time. Then at least I'm very proud that today's government was very quick to start giving money and putting the shovel in the ground to just build the Folloban tunnel. It's been planned a long time. It is said that former Prime Minister Stoltenberg was there and took a symbolic spade already in 2007 without a lot of money coming. So we can agree that it's been good talking for a long time, but now at least four drilling machines are starting to eat through the mountain. That means that it's very physical, hand-cuffed what's happening now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1100	This railway reform has been addressed earlier today, and one question could also be: is there any effect of it concretely on the Eastfold Railway? The other thing I want to do is: it's not just the commuters who are standing, and who experience the Eastfold course as crowded. This also applies to the goods coming over Svinesund. The share of goods on the track is now down to 2 p.m., according to the district of Østfold. The goods fill up the E6, and it is said that there will be two trailers per minute across the Svinesund. There's also a side to this. What will the Minister do to NTP to get Sweden to participate in a joint project to develop the route between Oslo and Gothenburg?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1107	One of the first things I did – I think it was in December 2013 – was travel to Sweden to discuss this subject. I realized that action was taken when nothing had been done about it in the past. Among other things, a working group was set up between the Norwegian and Swedish Governments at official level to look at the need for long-term action, but even more so what we can do in the short term to exploit the infrastructure we have. Then we find that although it is interesting from a part of Sweden, connection to Norway is not what is highest on the Swedish side. In their national transport plan submitted, which has a cost framework that is lower than the current Norwegian NTP, trains between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö are the highest on the priority list. It will be implemented as the economy allows, according to the Swedes. This means that there is a very long way to go before they think about Norway. But we still have this group, because we think it is important to pay attention to what we can do to get more goods on the railways between Norway and Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1117	‘The development of Myanmar is at a critical stage, both in terms of governance, economic development and human rights. A number of civil society organisations, Norwegian enterprises and the state have increased their efforts and presence in Myanmar. The Norwegian Burma Committee has played an important role in building up knowledge of developments in the country. Given this situation, what is the background for the Foreign Minister choosing to cut dramatically in the appropriations of the Burma Committee?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1124	The government of Myanmar is facing major challenges. Not least there are many ethnic groups there, not only Burmese, but also other ethnic groups, such as rowingya in Myanmar. Despite positive developments in many areas, the country is experiencing problems related to economic development, peace process and human rights, especially with regard to the unacceptable situation of the rowingyas, which was also discussed when I was in Bangladesh yesterday. An increasing number of internal refugees poses a humanitarian challenge. A year has not passed since the first democratically elected government of over 50 years came to power. Under the leadership of Aung San Suu Kyi, the authorities are showing the will to address their own challenges, while being open to asking for the help of the international community. Norway maintains its support for the reform process in Myanmar. We do this through support for government and cooperation with non-governmental organisations and with the United Nations system. A fundamental principle of our development policy is that efforts to build democracy and support civil society should go to actors present in the country in question and as effectively as possible to build a culture of influence from below. During the dictatorship, this was not possible in Myanmar. Therefore, our support for the process of democracy had to be channelled through organisations operating outside the borders of the country. Among these was the Burma Committee, which has been doing important work for a number of years. Today, a number of civil society organisations are present in Myanmar, and they are based there and run by people in Myanmar. In order to maximise the impact of our democratic support for the benefit of the population and civil society in young democracy, it has therefore been that the clear technical advice to me has been to turn our assistance towards organisations and actors within Myanmar. The democratic breakthrough has thus made it possible to provide our support for civil society in line with the principles underlying such efforts in our development policy. Although there is no longer any basis for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to complete the activities of the Burma Committee with a direct line from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it will be able to apply, like other Norwegian organisations, for support for concrete and good projects in line with the overall leadership of our assistance to Myanmar. Through that type of application, there will be a technical assessment by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to assess these projects, which the Burma Committee may wish to operate within Myanmar, against other projects, looking at their development impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1145	I would like to thank you for the answer, but I think the professional assessment needs a political assessment as well. It is true that you have a political breakthrough in Myanmar, but at the same time you have a democratic choice – but on top of what is an undemocratic constitution. It's still the case in Myanmar that the military are on 25 pst. by the seats of the Parliament. They thus control and block a constitutional change and are constitutionally at the main posts of the government, namely the defence, border control and domestic post. In particular, in the context of the issues also addressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, such as: With regard to rowingya, civil war states in the north, it's a question of who it really is that controls what's going on. Is it still the military, or is it the civil government? Just in such a situation, I think it is important to support organisations that have a political network in Myanmar, which, however, the Burma Committee has, and that it is too early to switch to just a standard procedure, where it is the other organisations that handle this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1152	Just to clarify, the representative is of course right that what is decided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I am responsible for. But I would like to point out that there has been clear technical advice that efforts are now being concentrated on projects that also have wide ownership in Myanmar. What is crucial in a situation where the army continues to experience too much power — not least it is totally unacceptable that they should have been assigned 25 pst in advance. by the representatives of Parliament – is building a strong civil society in Myanmar, which could be a ‘ice breaker’ in good Norwegian, in relation to these strong forces. But, as I said, the Burma Committee is free to apply to both Norad and the U.D. for good projects that will build a strong civil society in Myanmar.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1159	I would like to reiterate my assessment that Myanmar is still in a special situation through this with a mix of a politically elected government, but with still strong military control over the important posts. And precisely in the situation where one of the challenges is how one is going to change the political regime, I believe that the Burma Committee can continue to play a very important role through the networks they have in Myanmar, and also in the information they provide to Norway. So my question is about the Minister for Foreign Affairs going to re-evaluate the more backward attitude, which is to leave the evaluations only to his own bureaucracy, and once again take a political assessment of what priorities he should be doing, also in terms of support against Myanmar.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1166	To clarify: I have received a proposal from the U.D. Office that goes on that the time is now to concentrate on the effort to build a strong civil society within Myanmar. It wasn't possible before, under the dictatorship. There was not much room for action for this civil society in Myanmar. The last time I was in Myanmar, in Yangon and in Naypyidaw, I met many civilians, capable young people in Myanmar from various ethnic groups, who are now building their own organizations, and who can be a bulwark also against what is still too strong a military force. So to the question -- when the technical assessment is that the Burma Committee should now apply to these schemes, and not initially get that kind of support, I have chosen to follow the technical advice. I think we, as politicians, should be a little reluctant to go in and decide that it and that organisation should receive support, so I stick to what we've decided, and I don't think it's right for us to go in and point to – and get involved in – details like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1178	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘Sexual and reproductive rights are essential for women’s health and to prevent the death of the child and the growth of the child. Why is Norway not involved in the European initiative, taken by, among others, the Netherlands, Belgium and Sweden?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1187	Action on sexual and reproductive health and rights, including work on safe abortions, is important for Norway. It is also a high priority in the action plan that I presented before Christmas, the Action Plan on Women's Rights and Gender Equality in Foreign and Development Policy 2016-2020. Globally, Norway is one of the largest donors in this important work. We work with and through international voluntary organisations, the UN and other global funding mechanisms that focus on women, children and the health of young people. The government is already warning, as the Prime Minister has stated this weekend, that aid under the aid budget will be increased by 85 million. to actors affected by the so-called ‘oral basket’ rule, to which the representative also refers. We are doing this together with a number of other countries to help ensure adequate funding for this important area. Some of the increased funds will therefore go to the UN Population Fund, UNFPA, work on victims of sexualised violence in crisis and conflict in general, and to strengthen women’s right to sexual and reproductive health in Syria and neighbouring countries in particular. In addition, Norad will invite central international non-governmental organisations to apply for support. Award criteria will be performance, efficiency and financial needs. The government is in dialogue with our partners and other countries to lift women's sexual and reproductive rights. Norway fully supports the ‘She Decides’ initiative. As part of this initiative, an international conference shall be held in Brussels on 2 March this year. The Conference shall mobilise to increase the funding of the United Nations and international non-governmental organisations working in the field of sexual and reproductive health and rights. Norway fully supports this conference and will participate in the conference with Minister for Children and Gender Equality Solveig Horne. I would like to be there myself, but I am with the Dutch Foreign Minister in Colombia to look at the FARC and disarmament of FARC that very day, so it was not possible for me to re-prioritize. Like other countries, we want to announce our increased support for the field at that conference. Since there is a broad consensus that the new initiative focuses on new and private donors, our funds will be channelled through already existing partners and channels, including UNFPA. The head of the UN Population Fund also comes to Norway on Thursday, and I want to have my own meeting with him to discuss how we can target this, not least to curb what we can expect will be less funding from an important donor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1198	Thank you for your answer, which was relatively positive. It really raised awareness beyond the borders of the country that Norway was not initially at the forefront of the European initiative with Sweden and the Netherlands after the Trump administration cut appropriations for the UN's work on abortion guidance and sexual and reproductive rights. The initiative, as mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, provides the conference in Brussels on 2 March. Now I understand that Norway is going to participate, and I also understand that Norway is going to participate at the level of the Council of State in Brussels. For me, it was important to clarify that it was not with a Secretary of State or a political adviser, but that it is actually a Council of State that participates on behalf of the Norwegian Government at this grant conference in Brussels. I would also like to ask the Minister if he has thought that Norway will be involved in the continuation of this initiative, which I suppose will continue, because it is now very important after the Trump administration's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1207	To the end, I can say yes. I think it was very good that the representative Nybakk raised this question, because it also gave me an opportunity to show that it is due to a misunderstanding if it has been perceived that Norway has not been involved in this initiative from the outset. I warned very early that we are going to escalate our support for reproductive health and safe abortions – in fact the same day that the other ministers were out with this. I gave several interviews in that context, and it was also referred to in the Norwegian press. Now, within the framework of the aid budget, which was adopted by the Stortinget, we have looked at the opportunities to increase the investment by another 85 million. kr. As I said, we're already one of the biggest donors here, and we're going to continue this work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1214	I would like to stress that the fact that women have control of their own bodies is a very important part of gender equality in developing countries. That they have access to prevention, that they have safe births, that they have the right to safe abortions, must be a priority task also in Norwegian aid. In fact, the two most dangerous days in a woman's life are the day she is born, and the day she puts life into the world. We have to do something about that, and that's why it's important that this field be given priority. It is good that the government strengthens this effort now. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: will the Minister for Foreign Affairs also make this an area of activity in the development message that comes about Easter times, as long as there is much about this in the action plan that he himself mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1221	The answer to that is yes. I just read through that part of the draft Storing Message last night, and it's given a broad review, and we're also alerting a further escalation within this area. I fully agree with what the representative says about women's right to sexual and reproductive health and safe abortions. When we see that there's going to be a decline in funding from a big giver, we also have when this has happened earlier, shown that we can escalate. The fact that we are already alerting an increase of 85 million through the Prime Minister. NOK, well received. And for there to be no misunderstandings: Dutch Development Minister Lilianne Ploomen, who originally took the initiative of "She Decides", has written to me and thanked Norwegian support and commitment to this. So they've at least experienced that we're supporting this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1232	We continue in the same subject: ‘The United States has stopped all assistance to organisations that offer or provide information on abortion. For this reason, some European countries have now taken the initiative of a donor conference in Brussels for reproductive health. In Norway, we have seen cutbacks in the past. UNFPA and female assistance. Why is Norway not among the initiators of the conference, and will the Minister of Foreign Affairs quickly propose increases in appropriations for work on abortion and reproductive health?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1239	I could take the short version and say yes, but I guess the representative wants me to repeat some of the same things that I said to the representative Nybakk. The two questions are a little overlapping, so it has to be consistent in the two answers as well. I can once again stress that the government is already notifying, as the Prime Minister also made clear this weekend, that aid within the aid budget is being increased by 85 million. kr to operators affected by the so-called oral basket rule. Norway is already one of the world’s largest donors in terms of reproductive health, women and gender equality. At least we have over one billion of our aid budget going for these purposes. As I also said to the representative Nybakk, in the context of the big news of development policy and the achievement of the new sustainability objectives, we will announce a further commitment to this in the future. Unfortunately, it is necessary because this is such an important issue, but we are also now experiencing a gap here, because of the decisions of a great giver. We are doing this together with a number of other countries to contribute to the continued adequate funding of such an important area. Some of the increased funds will go to the UN Population Fund, UNFPA, its work, which is also important. As I also mentioned to the representative Nybakk, Norad would like to invite central organisations to apply for support based on the gap that now arises when we see failing funding from the United States. There, the criteria will be professionally linked to the achievement, efficiency and financial needs and will be determined by Norad. The government is in dialogue with our partners and other countries to lift women's sexual and reproductive rights. The initiative taken by Lilianne Ploumen to ‘She Decides’ has our full support. As I also stressed, I have been in favour of this conference in Brussels on 2 March this year all the way, and we will be represented at government level there. We would also like to announce our increased support for the field and refer to what we are planning in the context of the roll-out communication on development policy. Norway continues as a driver to strengthen women’s access to sexual and reproductive health and safe abortions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1250	Thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for what I think was a positive response. I suspected that some of the background that Norway is not the initiator of this kind is that Norway does not have its own Minister of Development, which is largely the organizers of the other countries. We believe that this illustrates the importance of having our own Minister of Development in Norway. However, I find it very positive that we are attending this important conference in Brussels at ministerial level, and I think it is positive that the Prime Minister has announced an increase. It's a good start, but it should be a start, and it should be a stepping up anytime should be revised already. My next question is that we do not know exactly how this American policy will be expressed. The budget of the new administration is presented in April. Last year, the United Nations population program received $100 million dollars from the United States. So my question is, how will Norway and the Minister for Foreign Affairs work to influence the new American administration so that the new policy will be as little dramatic as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1257	I'm going to the United States next week and meet important representatives from the administration. One question is how we are now going to work strategically in terms of women's reproductive health and questions about girls' rights, including girls' right to education, which we have had a good cooperation with the United States around, not least since the education conference we held in Oslo. If the United States chooses to cut these 100 million into the UN population fund, that is, about 700-800 million. kr, the nearly 100 million that we are now going to notify in increased support in the first round will help well. They'll cover one seventh of that delta. We also know that other countries, both Sweden and the Netherlands, are planning a significant increase in aid, so at least in the short term this will be covered. It's a shame we can't step up, but in the first round it's just trying to cover up this delta.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1262	Thanks for the answer. It is clear that what is now happening in the United States is dramatic if this is going to happen for at least four years. It is particularly dramatic when we know that in Europe there are many countries with poor economies, and we have seen aid cuts in Europe as well. I therefore think it was very good that the Stortinget made a decision before Christmas that Norway will have an aid budget of 1 p.m. in the future. of our GNI. My question is about the development message. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs say anything about the assessments he makes about what is happening now, where we see that some questions become too controversial? Will this change Norwegian aid policy? To a greater extent, Norway should give priority to areas where we know that no other country can be included, such as Norway. The rights of abortion, which will be controversial for many countries? Should Norway take a greater share of responsibility in such fields?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1269	I agree that it is good that we in Norway now in the last four years have managed to come up with budgets where, as one of the few countries in the world, we have delivered that 1 pst. by GNI has gone into development, through good cooperation with our cooperation parties Left and Christian People's Party. It may well be worth noting that we have actually had situations where we have had development ministers before, and Norway has not had 1 pst. of GNI for development policy, but in the last four years, with a Minister for Foreign Affairs, we have had 1 pst. of GNI. As I said, it is not least because of the good cooperation we have had with the Left and Christian People's Party. It is important to recognize it too. With regard to this area in the future, I have notified that we will notify you of a further escalation in connection with the Storing Message. It's not new, during the eight years of the Bush administration, you also had the same policy, so we've dealt with this before, and we're going to do that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1279	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: ‘The evening post on 15 February was entitled ‘The Good Club Rules the Air’. Out of 38 top positions in the industry, there are 31 men. The working party believes it is a problem that the gender balance of top executives in business is so poor. The Council of State answers that she is listed above these last figures, and she says that the department is now working on a new investigation. After almost 4 years, the Council of State obviously still lacks tools to do something. Does the Council of State believe that she is going to do something to ensure equality in business?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1288	I'm always happy to get questions related to equality. And then I'm also glad that the Workers' Party is also now concerned with equality issues. This was not something that was on the agenda when they were in government for eight years. It is true that earlier this month CORE provided a top management barometer showing that in the 200 largest Norwegian companies, 92.5 pst. in the position of Executive Director, men. This means that the issue is not unique to airlines, which are the starting point of the representative. I mean it's numbers we shouldn't be content with. We need to have a goal – and the government has a goal – to get more women into leading positions in business, because business organisations and businesses have a very important role and a responsibility to work consciously on gender issues, targeted at recruiting and using tools to keep capable women. Then I also acknowledge that this job must be done in business and in business. This also means that they control the main instruments on this occasion. That's why I'm very clear to the business community that this is a situation that the business community doesn't deserve. You're missing out on very good skills when you only choose from half of the population, given that the mind is fairly evenly distributed across the whole population. We have, on the part of the government, strengthened our expectations for this work where I have the most important and most important responsibility, namely state companies. The state of Norway is a major owner – we own the largest and most important companies in Norway. That also means that the job we do is important, and hopefully it has a contagion effect on the rest of the business. We've strengthened our expectations of how the government works on this. We follow it up in the owner dialogue, and I also have meetings with the directors of state companies just to exchange information on how it works, so that you can make good sense to each other. I also see a big change just over the last two years in how more and more companies work purposefully on this. We have provided a gender equality report where we also launch a number of actions. It's not least about how we get more women entrepreneurs who run their own businesses. Then it is right that I have asked for a report. What makes you do better at equal opportunities in academia, in politics, in organisational life, but not in business? I think we need knowledge, and I think that knowledge can form the basis of politics. Then I want to say finally that politics works. The share of female directors in companies where the state is on the owner's side was in the last year the red-greens crashed, 2012, 27 pst. In September 2016, the proportion was increased to 46 pst. So it's useful to do a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1307	I fully agree with the Council of State that politics works, and it might have been tempting to let the spooky comment on gender equality policy wander by. But we can, of course, base the facts and statistics and look at whether the proportion that took the paperwork, for example, went up or down when the Workers' Party was in government, and now the statistics that the Right is in government. May 17, 2015, there was a big deal in today's business, where it was reported that Statoil, Yara and Telenor had got new top leaders, and all were men. The Minister of Economic Affairs was not satisfied with the situation, and she said: I want to get rid of board members who are not actively working to meet the women's demands for ownership in companies with the state on the owner's side. So my question to the Minister of Economic Affairs is, what members of the board has the Minister of Industry abandoned in these last two years, to use her name, to achieve more female leaders?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1318	I do not remember that the notice was 17 May 2015, but it is possible that the questioner is right about it. What I remember is that there was a lot of confusion in some people because I said that we should measure board members also at the job they do in terms of expectations of social responsibility, and this is part of the expectations. I can assure the representative that we measure the board of directors at the job they do, both the job they do in business terms, and the job they do to work against corruption, work for diversity and equality – at all meet our expectations in this area. And then there are replacements. It is enough for the representative to go in and see in the owner reports that are submitted each year. Then you will see the changes that have occurred in the different governments from year to year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1323	After all, one can choose to interpret the Minister of Industry as saying that, according to her, getting rid of board members has been carried out on this basis. Former Minister of Industry Ansgar Gabrielsen described it as, when the law on the quotas was introduced, it was like putting your hand in front of your eyes, and the election committee looks in the blind. Now, if you're going to assume that the Council of State has got rid of members of the board of directors, as she described it, who didn't contribute to recruiting more top women leaders, what other measures is she seeing as she also assumes that politics works?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1330	Now I said in my first answer how I have worked with this from the time I took over. The main instruments in the private sector are industry itself. What we have to do is to make them aware of the means and not least the importance of choosing from the whole population. Then one will see a development in the state-owned companies where the proportion of female directors has risen, the proportion of female directors has risen. It's about the job you do from day to day when you're in government, and I think it's important. When it comes to changes in the boards, I'm not going to comment on it. That would be quite unusual to do. But it's clear that there are substitutions based on our expectations and the results that governments present in different areas, including this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1342	‘The Government’s regulatory changes to the registration of passenger ships endanger at least 700 Norwegian jobs for deflagration. Workers are replaced by non-resident employees under lower pay and working conditions. The reason for the change is that the present scheme is contrary to the EEA Agreement. Does this mean that the Council of State does not conduct a policy of its own, but does it because of demands from Brussels, or is it in line with the government's will, but that the government is pushing the EEA Agreement ahead of you?'
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1349	To respond to the simple first: of course, the government is running the policies we want. Our policy was reflected in the maritime strategy presented in May 2015. It was based on the recommendations of a party sample. All parts of those recommendations were not as easy to decide on, but I have been concerned that this industry needs predictability and long-term framework conditions. We need to ensure Norwegian maritime competence. Then it is clear that we also have to deal with EEA cooperation. This means that we can't just deal with the parts of the EEA agreement that we think should apply, and take away those that we don't think should apply. It's not like that. Then I think the representative has misunderstood. It is not the case that our proposal to change the operating rules for foreign ferries in NIS is justified in the EEA Agreement. It is justified in the recommendations of the party board to the government, where the company concerned, Color Line, was very clear to the selection, and to us later, that they did not see that there were commercial framework conditions that gave the necessary competitive power in the market, and that their alternative was to move the entire company to the Danish international ship register. That means we would lose 2,500 jobs. We then proposed changing these rules, keeping as many jobs as possible, and averting the loss of 2,500. We submitted a proposal and sent it to the hearing in the autumn of 2015, in line with the proposal of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but it has not been implemented due to issues of EEA law. This is related to the fact that the sample also recommended the introduction of a specific support scheme for foreign ferries in NIS. The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, which approves Norwegian State aid measures, has indicated that they will not approve such aid scheme until it has been established whether the operating limits for the ships in question are in accordance with EU internal market rules. It is therefore not possible for ESA to agree to an aid scheme which satisfies a measure as long as there is doubt as to whether the market rules have been complied with. In this context, ESA has pointed out in particular that it is problematic to discriminate between different geographical areas within the EU internal market. The purpose of the proposal which is now being consulted is, on the part of the government, to establish the limitations of the sea area in a more neutral manner. The effects of the proposal, as we can see, will have no consequences other than those proposed by the sample. A postponement of these changes has given us clear feedback on could cause us to lose hundreds of jobs, and we cannot accept that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1360	It is not easy to be a party-based sample when work is done in parallel. Now I have recently been out and participated in the marking outside, listened to the appeals and held the appeal. There are several hundred seafarers gathered, also in a Nordic community. The marking has slogans that you are against the Amending Regulation, and you are mobilizing to fight social dumping. One of the slogans is that seafarers should not go from sea to nav. Then I wonder – when I hear the Council’s explanation – whether there are the hundreds of seafarers out there who have misunderstood the message to the Council of State, or whether there is no cause for concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1365	This regulation is now being consulted, and a part of our democracy is fortunately such that one can agree or disagree, and one can demonstrate if one disagrees. I fully recognise the right of organisations to point out that they disagree with this change. But I just have to repeat: our option was not to save 700 jobs, our option was to lose 2,500 jobs. That was the reality we were in, and it was the reality that now we have tried to set up these rules to achieve what was the purpose of the rules, namely to maintain important maritime competence in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1370	In order to find good solutions, you also have to sit on the same information and actually work together in the samples that have been put down, and some have raised criticism that it has not been tidy enough here. However, the Council of State mentioned several examples of policies that cannot be implemented because of the EEA, and that is what we know, is that Norwegian interests do not commit themselves to the EU system. Then I am very interested to hear a little more detailed description of how the Council of State and the Government have promoted Norwegian interests and Norwegian seafarers' interests towards the EU system. There is nothing that has impressed Norwegian public opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1375	There were a lot of claims here. I have not received any feedback that the work of the sample was inexhaustible. I just have to say that I have met the sample, we were very busy putting together a wide-ranging selection, and everyone got involved in important debates. So saying that the process there has been immeasurable, I just don't understand that. There was a report, the last one in January 2015. There are recommendations, and so we've tried to follow up on those recommendations. Then not everyone agreed on everything, and there have been difficult balances. It's also been for the government, but we've tried loyally to follow up as best we could, to make sure. The whole purpose of the selection was to ensure maritime competence, to ensure more seafarers and not least to ensure more Norwegian ships with a Norwegian flag. That was the whole point of this work. Then I can also assure the representative that I have personally had several meetings with ESA to try to explain that we believe the arrangements we have are in line with EEA law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1386	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: ‘In proposals for amendments to the Regulation on the area of operation of passenger ships registered in the Norwegian international ship register, the Government proposes that small grip routes Oslo-København and Stavanger/Bergen-Hirtshals may also be flagged to NIS. [[NIS]] This opens up again so that Nordic teams can be replaced by teams at lower pay and lower working conditions. Why does the Council of State want this change that can affect Nordic workers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1395	In 2014, the government set up a maritime commission to facilitate Norway's future as a significant maritime nation with a large Norwegian fleet. The number of NIS-registered ships had fallen continuously since the early 1990s — with about 100 ships only under the previous government. From the beginning of 2015 this trend reversed, and in 2016 the number of NIS ships increased by 44. The number of ships in the commercial fleet of NOR has remained stable since we joined. Then it's a very challenging situation related to the offshore market. We know that very many ships are in charge, and that too many seafarers have lost their jobs. It's very serious. But then it is very important that the government put forward a maritime strategy as early as May 2015. We have strengthened the net pay scheme, there is now a proposal to legislate the net pay scheme. We are simply doing this to ensure Norwegian seafarers' competence. It's important at sea, but we also know that it's very important on land when we design, equip and build ships. We know that after the introduction of the operating limits and the strengthening of the subsidy scheme for seafarers, the scheme has been increased by around 1000 persons – 400 in NOR coastal shipping and 600 on board NIS construction ships. We have been committed to strengthening arrangements involving all personnel on board NOR passenger ships. In addition, we have removed the maximum payment limit per employed person. That is as far as we can go within the framework of State aid law. The Committee also proposes an embellishment of the limitations of the sea area for NIS passenger ships engaged on international voyages. There I have previously replied that the option here was not to save the 700 Color Line have notified to lose the job. The alternative was to lose 2,500 jobs. It is not with an easy heart that we promote these changes, but the alternative is even more difficult. The government can't decide which shipping companies to flag where, there's freedom to flag the states you want, but we've done our part to strengthen the subsidy scheme for Norwegian seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1408	It was initially Oslo-Kiel, and with the changes that have now been made, which refer to 175 nautical miles, it is therefore possible for routes from Norway to Denmark within the scope of the possibility to fly to NIS. So it's 700 in Norway who loses their job because of the government's decision, but it also affects the Nordic labour market. I assume that the Council of State has discussed this with its Nordic colleagues, and then my question is: What do her Nordic colleagues think that Norway is now becoming a leading country in terms of making it easier to get lower pay for people working on ferries?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1415	I totally disagree with the premise for the question. It is not that today there are routes – with the exception of Oslo-Copenhagen – that will be able to flag NIS and make the changes that the representative describes. Fjord Line can do that, for example. not with the grid they have today. So that's how these regulations are being consulted. The whole point of a hearing is to get a recording to draw a conclusion. The hearing period shall be 3 March. I'm going to go through the hearing replies that are coming and look at the consequences of these changes. But I want to remind the representative that there is a great responsibility for securing Norwegian seafarers, and the option is – as we have it right now – very, very much more difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1422	I am well aware of our responsibility to ensure Norwegian seafarers. Among other things, I have been in a fight for the net pay system, against the Right, for many years. Governments can go to the West at any time and mention Støn kurst and be told that then there was predictability and stability in shipping. Very many of the changes that have happened to the net pay scheme in retrospect, now that the Right has turned around, we are very much in favour. We have a positive commitment to shipping together. But what we disagree with is the grip that is now being done on a shipping company – it is essentially a matter of one shipping company – which has very favourable conditions in the Norwegian context, but which now wants to avoid Norwegian employees at parts of their speed. That's why we're asking the question. Then I'm glad the Council of State says she's going to take the hearing seriously, because at least that's what was said. Now it's like some of the people who were in the sample have actually changed their positions after the new proposal for a solution that the Council of State is now coming with. This means that it may be possible for the Council of State to take into account what is coming into the hearing and not implement the proposal against which there is now a major demonstration in Eidsvoll's place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1433	Of course, the history description of the representative is fascinating, and I naturally disagree very much with it. I do not know that for eight years the Labour Party in the government strengthened the net pay scheme. I do not know that the Workers' Party in the government legalized the arrangement. I know that after leaving the government it has become very important for these changes, but I did not take over an office where we had started some work on maritime nutrition at all. That's the situation. That work was started when we took over, when we put down a range that gave us some recommendations. We're trying to follow them up. Then I can confirm that we take hearings seriously. I'm going to read the recordings carefully. We're going to make thorough assessments. But I just have to repeat: our alternative is not to secure 700 employees. The alternative is to lose 2,500. And if the representative doesn't believe me, he'll have to talk to the company we're talking about here, who has said that they want to move to DIS – Dansk International Skipsregister – as Fjord Line has done. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1445	‘In the context of the statutory establishment of the net pay scheme, the Council of State has stated: ‘We are competing with other nations that have different pay conditions. Therefore, this grant scheme is crucial if we are to retain Norwegian competence. It is about having competitive framework conditions.’ At the same time, she is promoting a proposal to change the operating limits for NIS that endangers 700 Norwegian jobs. Does the Council of State consider that the framework conditions for NOR are not competitive?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1452	I can repeat that the government just to meet a situation where there was an increasing number of ships in NIS, and where we saw that the conditions for Norwegian seafarers were not good enough, put down a range selection that we received a report and a recommendation from which we have tried to follow up. So it happened that 100 ships left NIS when the Workers' Party was in government. Then we have a very challenging situation related to the offshore market with ships in print and with too many seafarers who have lost their jobs as a result of a global situation and overcapacity in the offshore market. Therefore, I also believe it has been very important that the government put forward a strategy in May 2015, that we have strengthened the net pay scheme, and that we follow up the recommendations we are receiving. We now see that despite the very difficult situation in which parts of the industry are in, the number has increased by 1,000 – around 400 in NOR coastal shipping and 600 on board NIS construction ships. We are engaged in schemes that ensure grants to all employees on board NOR passenger ships, and we have removed the maximum payment limit per employed. That is as far as we can go, as I have also said before, within the framework of State aid law. Then the range of vessels has also recommended decoration in NIS passenger ships for international voyages. There we are in a situation where we can not do anything – then we lose 2,500 employees, that's what Color Line has been very clear to the selection and to me – or we can try to create a code that is adapted to the scope of action we have under EEA law. That proposal is now being consulted. I've said that before, and I'd like to repeat it, there's a hearing where the hearing deadline expires on March 3rd, and I'm going to read the hearing recordings carefully. I don't see that what we're now proposing will change the actual situation and the content of the marine committee proposed, except that this we can notify in ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1461	I thank you for your answer. I just have to start by saying that the answer given by the Council of State to Dag Terje Andersen in the village was totally historyless in terms of the net pay scheme as it has been in Norway. It is regrettable that the Council of State has not been better involved in history. In 2015, the roof was raised for foreign ferries and the net pay scheme applicable from the first seafarer. This ensured NOR's competitiveness vis-à-vis Denmark. The Color Line itself then stated that NOR is now becoming competitive towards DIS, the Danish ship register. In spite of this, the government will allow Color Line to reflag to NIS to further cut costs by replacing up to 700 Norwegian workers with workers willing to work under completely different pay and working conditions. I just have to ask the Council of States again – and it is really a very simple question, a question you can answer yes or no to: Does the Council of States think that the net pay system is competitive today, or is it not competitive today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1472	If the representative believes that the Workers' Party worked to legislate the net pay scheme, or to strengthen it or extend it, it is simply wrong. That's not right. It was done by this government. I can either relate to the information I get, or I can leave it. The representative knows that too. And although it's a campaign, I think we have to be pretty decent about what we do. Color Line can flag wherever they want. Of course, if the representative wants a policy that leads to 2,500 employees in the maritime sector losing their jobs, she will be free to do so. I don't want to. I want to find other solutions, which keep us competitive and competent in the maritime industry. That is why we are promoting this proposal. I'd like to repeat: it's not with a light heart, but the alternative is very much worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1481	It's still historyless when we hear the description the Council of State has of the net pay scheme. Predictability of the net pay scheme was important. Dag Terje Andersen, Minister of Industry in 2007, was introduced in 2008, because it was very uncertain while the Right was in government. Then the programme proposal was passed on by law. The party of progress said in the time we crashed the country that this had to be legislated. Three and a half years passed before three sheets came to Stortinget from the Council of State that we are now going to have a statutory net pay scheme. With regard to the range restriction and the selection, Color Line asserted that their competitive disadvantage was about 160 million. kr. Then you have raised the net pay scheme. Then it's interesting to hear: what numbers has Color Line presented to the Council of State, and on what basis is it now categorically asserting that the option to the decoration of the sea is flagging Denmark for Color Line?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1490	I'll make this very easy. I am aware that the Labour Party at its 2013 national meeting was in favour of a law – into the 2013 election campaign. There were no documents to suggest that it had been used for the six months to implement such a change in law. When it comes from this government now, it's because we first have new rules attached to a net pay scheme. Before you know what it looks like, you can't actually propose to legalize it. Then I just have to repeat: Color Line can flag where they want. They say they're going to move to DIS if the proposal from the Marine Committee is not adopted. I can relate to it or not. I'm trying to relate to it, simply because the option is much worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1500	‘14. on May 2014, ESA sent a letter recording the operating area limitations for passenger ships in NIS with the Norwegian authorities. This was at the same time as the parties in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection negotiated solutions to this particular issue. Why did the Council of State not inform the sample of this, and does the Council of State consider that it is good tripartite cooperation to withhold such central information?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1507	It is true that ESA wrote a letter on 14 May 2014 asking questions about the implementation of EU Regulation 4055/86 in Norwegian law. The Regulation, which is incorporated into the EEA Agreement, gives EU and EEA citizens the right to provide maritime services between Member States. Norway was asked to clarify the implementation of the Regulation with regard to the restriction of service applicable to passenger ships registered in NIS. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries replied by letter of 15 June 2014 that the Regulation had been fully implemented by the Maritime Transport Services Act of 4 December 1992. It was demonstrated that EU and EEA citizens have the right to provide the relevant shipping services to and from Norway by ships flying both the flag of Norway and the flag of a foreign country. At that time it was anything but clear that this could be central information for the work of the sample. It is not unusual for ESA to send letters to the Norwegian authorities requesting information on the implementation of the EEA rules in Norwegian law. Only in the process of notifying the grant scheme in the autumn of 2015/ Spring 2016 did we become aware that ESA’s assessment of the case meant that they would not approve an aid scheme for the ships in question. Changing the shipping area without simultaneously introducing a subsidy scheme would clearly weaken the competitiveness and employment of Norwegian seafarers on the ships in question. We have therefore entered into dialogue with ESA, with the result that we are now proposing a restriction of the area of use that we believe there can be no doubt that it is in line with the EEA Agreement. This means that the aid scheme can be approved. At the same time, it does not change our previous assessment that the regulation has been fully implemented in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1518	In any case, the employee side does not feel that this has been a good process and a good cooperation. On repeated occasions, including today, the Council of State has pointed out that the Speed Region Committee has been behind the solution. What she doesn't mention is that both the LO and the Marine Association were opposed, and that the solution was found under a set of assumptions that have now been changed. The committee was asked to stay within the framework of the net pay scheme, and there are now hundreds of millions more on the table. The Color Line now receives a refund for the entire crew, without a roof, a significant improvement for the company, and the sample was not informed that the ESA had taken over the matter. The sum of these changes means that not only the LO and the Maritime Association are united behind the criticism, but a whole side of the workforce. How can the State Council then claim that these changes are requested by the Parties to the Maritime Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1523	Once again, there are indications that it has not been a good process. I don't know. I don't know, I don't know. I believe the Speed Committee did an important job. I believe that we have loyally tried to follow the recommendations we received, knowing that everyone was not for everything. I've said that in every context. I called the parties when I realized that ESA would not notify the aid scheme. So it's not the changes in the area of navigation, but the support system that we want to introduce to maintain Norwegian maritime competence. I just called them to a meeting to discuss what we are going to do now to try to meet this. That was the background to the regulation that is now being consulted. The hearing period expires on March 3rd, and of course we're going to review the recordings very carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1530	First, I would like to say that I think the Council of State is rather historyless when she describes the efforts of the Workers' Party in relation to the net pay scheme. That's how in our time it increased by 60 pst. And the Right actually voted against. This is not the only issue that concerns challenges for good pay and working conditions in Norwegian waters. The government shares the ambition of the Workers' Party for a great deal of investment in sea areas, but there is a crucial difference. For our part, this means creating safe jobs with decent pay and working conditions, while the government seems to be just wanting to leave the market in its hands. Before Christmas we asked for an investigation on the possibilities for the same pay and working conditions on a Norwegian base, while the Right and Advance Party voted against. Why won't the Council of State seek more knowledge in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1537	The issue of public service, on which the Workers' Party has now cast itself, was not introduced when it was put into government. There was nothing to be done when you were in government. There were probably pretty good reasons for that. General public is nothing new. It was also discussed by the sample, and the sample says when they explain the problem: ‘However, there is considerable uncertainty as to whether such requirements will be compatible with EEA and international law.’ It basically says a lot about the legal problems this can create, and also whether there will be a breach of the tradition of the Norwegian authorities for shipping. It's global. We're working to build national borders, not build new ones. That is why this has not been proposed by the government. This was discussed by the selection. It did not get a majority because there is considerable uncertainty about it, apart from the fact that it is politically demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1550	This question, from the representative of Geir Pollestad, will be raised by the representative of Sofie Margrethe Selvicvåg.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1555	My question goes to the Minister of Industry and says as follows: ‘Does the Council of State have an objective of increasing Norwegian seafarers in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1562	This answer I could have done extra cards by answering yes. But I'd like to add that the whole background for putting down a shipping area selection in 2013 was just wanted to secure Norwegian seafarers. It was a desire to get up the number of Norwegian seafarers, and it was a desire to get more ships flagged home. This is because Norwegian maritime competence is important at sea, but it is also important on land. As a follow-up to the work of the sample, we have considerably strengthened the subsidy scheme for the employment of seafarers. We have lifted the ceiling for maximum payments per employed person on board NOR ships engaged on coastal voyages, NOR ships engaged on international voyages and NOR ships serving the Bergen–Kirkenes route. We have also increased the ceiling for maximum payments per person employed on board NOR ships in petroleum activities, we have opened up subsidies from the first sailor on board NIS ships, and we have established our own grant schemes for NIS construction ships and sailing ships in NOR. Now we're going to grant 2.1 billion. kr over the state budget for employment of Norwegian seafarers, and we also see that it works. Despite a very, very difficult situation in the offshore fleet, the number of seafarers has increased by nearly 1,000 – despite the difficult situation we are in – and I believe that the government has both the will and the ability to invest in Norwegian maritime competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1569	I thank you for your answer. When the Red-Greens took over the Ministry of Industry and Trade in 2005, there were 9,430 seafarers in the net pay scheme on average. Eight years later, this number had increased on average to 12,100 seafarers. In the second semester of 2016, the number of seafarers fell to 11,566 in the scheme. I hear that the Council of State is still satisfied with the state of things. Some of the problem of not recognising the challenges in an area is often that then you don't do anything about it either. Will the Council of State take responsibility for not reaching another 700 jobs, or will the Minister allow the industry to sail its own sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1576	The industry shall by no means sail its own sea. I am concerned that we are following up on the policy we put forward in 2015. We have 69 follow-up decisions that we work with in different departments. I am also not satisfied with the fact that we have had a very difficult situation globally in relation to our largest industry, that is, the petroleum industry. That's the background of the situation we have on the offshore side of maritime nutrition. So this is neither a consequence nor something that can be met with changes to the grant scheme. We have changed it – simply because we wanted to strengthen Norwegian maritime competence. But we have lost many capable seafarers, because it is an overcapacity, and because there is a conversion and restructuring in the fleet. It may not arrange for a grant scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1583	In the maritime strategy that the government put forward yesterday, it is written, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «A significant proportion of the growth of maritime industry in the years ahead is expected to come in traditional shipping and in relation to other marine industries, such as marine aquaculture and wind power.» Further, it is written: ‘One of our main competitive advantages is our knowledgeable oil engineers, process operators, seafarers, fishermen and breeders with a high operational competence to exploit the sea.’ How can the Council of State go back and present a maritime strategy without simultaneously seeking knowledge of how the labour market in that area should and can be organised?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1598	I'm not sure I understand the question. I have now explained how the government, since its accession, has strengthened maritime competence, strengthened the grant scheme to ensure Norwegian seafarers. The fact that we have suffered a huge fall in oil prices, that we have been cut off for costs, that we have been reduced, is not something that is either indicated in or a consequence of Norwegian policy. This is a global industry that acts globally. But we have over 250,000 people who go to work in the marine industries every day, and that representative quoted, I think was pretty well written. We're going to make sure to strengthen ourselves in view of these industries. Then we need skills, we need seafarers, we need engineers, we need researchers, and we need an interaction between the different actors to find new industries and to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1606	‘The recommendation for the protection plan for the Tyrif soil has been clear since the autumn of 2012. On 4 November 2015, Environment Minister Tine Sundtoft said that ‘the plan is not in the drawer but that it is working to finalise the protection plan’, and that the finalisation of the protection plan is important in a solution that ensures important natural values in the construction of new E16 and new Ringeriksbahn from Kroksund to Hönefoss. Is it despite this that the track through the vulnerable wetlands is determined without the completion of the protective plan?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1613	The government has already decided on the route with the development of a new Ringeriksbahn from Kroksund to Hønefoss. On 29 April 2016, the Ministry of Transport announced that, following discussions in the government and in consultation with the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, they had decided that option 4f, the so-called Helgelandsmoline, would be used for the further planning of Ringeriksbanen and E16 on the Bymoen-Styggedalen section. At the same time, it was decided that attention should be paid to identifying relevant remedial and compensatory measures, with particular emphasis on natural diversity, flood protection, soil protection and agriculture. A working group has identified potential areas that can be set aside for compensation for the natural areas that are lost in development. The extent of the area to be compensated depends on the detailed planning and the solutions chosen for bridge and flooding through the wetlands. The Ministry is working to finalise the protection plan for the Tyrifjord. It is too early to say when this case is completed, but I guess it will be able to be resolved during 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1626	I must then note that former Minister for Climate and Environment Tine Sundtoft said on 4 November 2015, that an important natural value for the construction of a new E16 was wrong, because the protection plan is not available, while Minister for Climate and Environment Helgesen now confirms that the government has established the path – and has done so. Norway ratified the Ramsar Convention in 1974, and in 1996 Northern Tyrifjorden was included. Norway has thus committed itself to managing this area under international commitments. How will the Council of State explain the relationship between those commitments and the fact that the government has defined the line where he now confirms that it has been established?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1635	I would like to stress that the government attaches great importance to taking care of important natural values, including important wetlands nature, and that in that context we are listening to advice from the Ramsar Secretariat. The Ramsar Secretariat was on tour, and we have taken their advice into consideration. But it is important in this case that there are other considerations to take also. This is the consideration of nationally important cultural memories, which has been one consideration. Account has also had to be taken of the cultural and agricultural environment. Of course, it has also been a matter of taking costs into account in the choice that was made. I would also like to point out that the Stortinget has discussed the issue of the choice of solution for the new railway line in detail, and it was a majority who decided to release the government from the 2001 decision to build after Åsa line. That's why we've now concluded with the Helgelandsmoline.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1642	I then find that the emphasis of the Council of State on international commitments and the view of the Ramsar Convention is in direct conflict with the fact that the report of the Ramsar Convention is clearly opposed, both at Busund and at Helgelandsmoen. When the Ramsar Secretariat points this out and points out that the whole of the wetlands area is permanently destroyed by this weathering and railway network selection, the question is: What has the Minister for Climate and Environment and the Environment done to reduce the direct and indirect damage to this wetlands since the trasé change was signalled and adopted in Stortinget in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1649	First of all, I would say that in planning it is not yet clear how much area will be taken and how much area it will be relevant to compensate. It depends on the detailed planning – the solutions chosen for the bridge and the filling through the area. However, it is ongoing work, with a working group that assesses and implements ecological compensation for the potential loss of natural diversity in this matter, among others. related to the existing ‘nature reserve’ sinner. It is the further planning that will show whether such compensation is necessary and to what extent it will be necessary. I would like to stress that the overall objective is to avoid interference in protected natural areas, and that such ecological compensation is the last resort. But in this case, that's where we are. There were other important considerations to take, too, and we have an ongoing work to assess compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1659	This question, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1664	'Another week, a new baby comes to Norway after surrogati in the United States. The international surrogati company is established, including an Israeli company has created a Nordic office in Stockholm, with Norwegian website and information seminars in Oslo. Biotechnology laws provide treatment in contravention of the Biotechnology Act for clinics and health professionals in Norway. What will the government do to prevent the Nordics from benefiting from surrogati abroad, and is the practice of surrogati firm in Norway legally?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1671	As you know, the government will present a big message on the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act this spring. Surrogati will be one of the themes in this message. The Biotechnology Act does not deal with surrogati directly. However, the prohibition of egg donation implies that surrogacy using eggs from another than the one to carry the child out cannot be legally carried out in Norway. Furthermore, the requirement that assisted fertilisation be given to married couples or cohabitants and that surrogati is not allowed in Norway. As regards the legality of international surrogati activities in Norway, the general rule is that those who infringe the provisions of the Biotechnology Act may be penalised by fines or imprisonment for up to three months. This also applies to participation. The provisions of the Biotechnology Act only affect acts that take place in Norway. Actions which, following a concrete assessment, may be affected by the prohibition of participation include: that contact is made and a contract is signed with a specific clinic abroad. The main purpose of criminal provision has been to prevent healthcare professionals or other professionals from engaging in activities contrary to the law. Therefore, exemptions from criminal liability have been made for individuals using offers contrary to the Biotechnology Act. The exemption from punishment also applies to persons other than those who receive direct treatment or health care, for example: pairs using surrogati. Family members or other related persons providing practical assistance to the person directly receiving treatment or health care are also exempt from criminal liability. The exemption from criminal liability shall not apply to other individuals, businesses, organisations or associations which provide or provide services not permitted by law in Norway. This is clarified in the preparatory work on criminal law. Such services will, for example: could be the provision of surrogati services. This can be a criminal offence under the Biotechnology Act, following a concrete assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1686	The Council of State then says that the company that offers the service I mentioned in the question, with information seminars in Norway, can get away from the criminal justice system in the biotechnology law. I'd like the Council to repeat it. The second question I had is what the government is doing to prevent the Nordics from using surrogati abroad. Can the Councils also answer that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1693	As to whether the specific example is criminal or not, the representative Toppe knows that for many reasons — including constitutionally — it would be wrong for a government council to decide on it. It shall determine the legal system. I explained in my answer what the understanding of the law was, and that, for example. the provision of surrogati services in Norway could be a criminal offence under the Biotechnology Act, following a concrete assessment. When it comes to preventing people from Norway from using surrogati, there is nothing to do with it. It's not punishable. The Red-Green Government, in which the Center Party was involved, clarified this in the Biotechnology Act and gave it broad support in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1700	In 2013, India introduced new surrogacy rules that put an end to the possibilities for Norwegian couples to implement legal surrogati in the country. When we dealt with the punishment waiver in Stortinget, daring Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre said the following: ‘Norwegian authorities advise Norwegian citizens not to conclude surrogati agreements abroad. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion and several foreign stations have published information on this and on the risks associated with the use of surrogate mother abroad.’ Then I think it's quite eye-catching that the new government and councillor Höie have a different line, where they don't come from and do nothing, as I understand the answer from the council. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1710	No, that's not true, and it didn't come out from the answer either. So then the representative Toppe must have listened in a special way, because that's not the question. It's clear that a couple don't recommend doing this. One provides information on the significant risk involved, in the same way as under the previous government. But the question from the representative was what a do to prevent, and then I perceive that a request for someone should do something about the law to prevent this. It's not planned. I point out that this was prepared by just the government of which the Senterpartie itself was part, and it was a clarification that got broad support in the Stortinget. It is punishable to contribute to surrogati in Norway, but in my opinion it is wrong to make it punishable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1718	‘Women in Norway are generally of good health. Regional health enterprises report an increased need for maternity and maternity care in cooperation with primary health services. Nevertheless, I have registered that many people experience a lack of, among other things, gynecologists. Why is it that many women today have a very long waiting time and a long journey to be examined by a specialist, and what will the Council of State do to provide women throughout the country with a good offer in maternity and maternity care, as well as follow-up after birth injuries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1725	Good birth and maternity care is important for the health of women and children. I am therefore concerned that the food supply should be safe and predictable, and that the birthers should have a good birth experience. Follow-up to the quality requirements of St.melding. No 12 for 2008-2009, on maternity care, and in the Health Directorate’s guide ‘A safe food supply — Quality requirements for maternity care’, from 2010, have been treated several times in Stortinget. Health establishments are responsible for ensuring that the supply of food is sound and that the supply meets national quality requirements. These requirements have been central to my dialogue with the health regions and hospitals. An important issue has been the safe transport of birthing women to the maternity ward and the competence and staffing of the maternity wards. My clear impression is that the requirements are well known and that hospitals are actively working to achieve the targets. The provision during maternity is to be taken care of both by the hospital and by the municipality’s health services. The length of hospitalisation and the services to be provided by hospitals and the municipality must be individually adapted and in line with the Health Directorate’s national occupational guidelines for maternity care. More decentralised maternity care is under development, with a more adapted follow-up at home and at home. However, the type of offer needs to be developed over time and adapted to local conditions. The representative Ljunggren takes up a long wait and long journey to a specialist in gynecology and mentions special treatment after birth injury. The most common harm in births is end-arm ribs, which can be very serious for the person concerned. Fortunately, tears have been severely reduced in recent years by the use of a modified procedure, but those women who receive this type of severe birthbed should be offered treatment by gynecologist and physiotherapist. Gynecologists work in hospitals and as practitioners, often in cities. Pregnancy with pregnancy complications is a priority, according to feedback from health regions, and there is practically no waiting time for study and treatment. In case of birth damage, follow-up is agreed upon when the woman is printed. On the basis of such reports, I have no idea that there are problems with increasing waiting times for women who are to be followed up by a specialist in pregnancy, or with treatment for birth defects and other post-natal follow-up. Scattered settlements and long distances may provide a long journey to a specialist for some women who need special follow-up during pregnancy or after birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1740	Thanks for the answer. Where I come from, Narvik, which is a city of about. 18 000 inhabitants, there is no private practice gynaecologist or gynaecologist with the agreement. It is up to six months' waiting time with reference to a specialist, who is at the hospital. I have heard of women who struggle to be believed when they seek help after birth injuries, and then there are no birth injuries to which the health minister refers, tears, but other types of birth injuries, which may be discovered some time later, and of women who prefer to travel to the neighboring city to get an hour from a private gynaecologist, and have to pay for it. The Workers' Party has programmed that we want more premises for contract specialists. It also has the Party of Governments in the programme for the current period, but little has happened. What will the Council of State do to provide more facilities for contract specialists?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1751	It's not right that little has happened. On the contrary, we have conducted good negotiations with the Medical Association and the Psychological Association to establish a new framework for the development of several contract specialists. It was an important prerequisite for what has now happened, namely that in the 2017 mission paper I have commissioned all the health regions to significantly increase the number of contract specialists compared to 2016. It is a mission that I expect health regions to follow up, because now we have a good framework in place and can therefore ensure that we get more contract specialists, and also ensure that they cooperate better with the regular health care, so that we also get a good, coherent offer for the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1758	Diffuse chronic diseases affect more women than men. Unfortunately, these diseases have lower status in medically trained environments. The consequences of this may be lack of knowledge, poorer diagnostics and failure of treatment. Health Nord has an agreement with seven private gynecologists, i.e. birth aid specialists and women's diseases. The seven are divided into Bodø, Alta, Finnsnes and Tromsø – seven gynecologists divided into, roughly, 200,000 women. Is that acceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1763	I believe that there should be more contract specialists, and gynecology is an obvious area to have more contract specialists on. Now you've got a job to do. Then you also work with a development plan for the hospital in Narvik, with which the representative is well acquainted. It is also important to ensure the good recruitment of gynecologists to public hospitals in order to be part of the overall offer there, which it is also important to have. These are factors that each health region is best suited to balance — between the need for more contract specialists and the need to ensure the recruitment of sufficient specialists for public hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1771	‘The University Hospital of North Norway applied in 2013 for the so-called NIPT test to make a more accurate diagnosis of women receiving foetal diagnostics. With it, less would need to be done by mortar and foetal water tests that could lead to damage and spontaneous abortion. Will the Council of State follow the technical recommendations of the Health Directorate and the Council of Biotechnology to introduce the NIPT, or will the Cooperation Agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left comply that the government will continue to ban the NIPT test during this period?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1778	I have recently received the recommendation from the Health Directorate on my table. This case includes both medical, ethical and political issues, which means that I have decided that it is I, as Minister of Health and Care and the Ministry of Health and Welfare, who make the decision in this case. The government’s political platform states that the government “will not introduce a public offer of early ultrasound or an offer of NIPD blood samples for all pregnant women, cf. the cooperation agreement.’;» This, of course, stands firm. The NIPT or NIPD Non-Invasive Prenatal Test/Diagnosis tests are new tests that can be used for foetal diagnostics. Foetal diagnostics are different types of studies of a pregnant woman, the foetus or the foetus’ cells in order to obtain information on the genetic properties of the foetus or to detect or exclude disease or developmental abnormalities in the foetus. Foetal diagnostics are mainly reserved for pregnant women who have an increased risk of developing children with severe hereditary disease or developmental abnormalities, including: pregnant women who will be 38 years of age or older in the future. The Ministry of Health and Welfare will now assess whether NIPT should be used as a method of investigation for the detection of trisomi 13, 18 and 21 under the applicable conditions of foetal diagnosis. We will assess the recommendations made by the Health Directorate and the Biotechnology Council. As we are well known, we received a recommendation from the directorate on 23 January, and in a short time I will make a conclusion on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1793	Today, about 4000 pregnant women are offered a so-called KUB test, of which about 500 are given. 600 provision of foetal water testing, which poses a small risk of spontaneous abortion. For the women involved, months taken before the government lands on the same level as the trade union environment – or it is up to the Council of State, as he himself has specified – will mean enormous amounts. It says about life and health and about extra security that we can offer women in a vulnerable situation. As I understand the Council of States in his reply, he does not see the cooperation agreement with the supporting parties as restrictive for those women who already have this offer through a so-called KUB test. Have I understood the Council correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1798	These questions will be answered by the representative when I have concluded. The issues raised by the representative, which have also been highlighted by the Health Directorate in its recommendation, are clearly factors which speak in order to allow this test in those cases. I am pleased that the Health Directorate has reached a different conclusion than the Biotechnology Council, which I believe had a conclusion that was far too far-reaching and which I am quite clear would at least be contrary to the cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1803	It doesn't sound like I really disagree with the Council of State. But it's clear that the women involved are waiting for such a decision. I think it is relevant whether this is a political issue, namely that it goes along the axis of the government party that has agreed with the Christian People's Party and the Left on, or whether it is a professional assessment that the Minister of Health takes as top responsibility for healthcare. That, I believe, is a legitimate delimitation. If it is that you feel bound by the cooperation agreement on this issue, I think it is something that Norwegian women have the right to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1808	Had this been just a professional question, I would not have needed to withdraw the Health Directorate's power to make decisions on that kind of question. I believe this is both a professional question and a medical-ethical and therefore also a political question. That is why I have decided that there is a decision to be made by the Ministry of Health and Health. Then the process has taken some time both in the Biotechnology Council and in the Health Directorate. As I said, I received the recommendation on 23 January. I will come to a conclusion soon, but I hope to understand that when both the Biotechnology Council and the Directorate took some time to come to a conclusion on this matter, it is natural that me and the Ministry of Health and Health get a few weeks to come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1818	‘A safe experience of maternity is of great importance to health, the relationship with the mother-child and the whole family situation. Measurability is influenced by health, work situation, networks, economy, education and lifestyle. We are given feedback that good maternity care is slow to take place based on the professional guidelines of the Health Directorate. Why does the government not do any more to follow up this work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1825	I agree with the representative that a good and safe start to family life is of great importance. Developing family-friendly maternity care is one of the areas of intervention in St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009 on continuous maternity, maternity and maternity care. With previous discharges from food establishments, there is a need to develop new solutions to follow up on mothers and children in the first days after birth. It is a goal that more of this follow-up should be done locally where the family lives. A useful and important tool in this work is the national occupational guidance for maternity care, which came in 2014. Obstetrics are the responsibility of both health companies and municipalities. In the past, hospitals had responsibility for follow-up during the first 14 days after birth, before the municipality and health centre took over. However, much of the follow-up to specialist health services is still taking place, for example: in nursing and maternity clinics, in local feeding rooms or in early home visits to midwifery. I believe that the government has done a lot to make it easier for municipalities to strengthen health care, where most of the follow-up takes place. For 2014-2017, EUR 734.4 million is set aside. kr through the municipal framework to strengthen health station and school health services. The budget comparisons for 2016 and 2017 provide for 250 million. NOK for an earmarked grant that can be applied for by municipalities. The government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has been committed to developing application criteria that meet well, and I would encourage the municipalities to apply for these funds within the deadline set on 19 March. Municipalities and regional health establishments need to work together to build up competences and capacities in maternity care outside hospitals. The Parties shall be obliged to conclude cooperation agreements, inter alia: in the case of prevention and midwifery services. As part of the follow-up of St.meld. No 12 regional plans for maternity, maternity and maternity care have been developed. For example, Health Middle Norway reports that changes in bedtime in the food institution should occur in close dialogue with the municipalities and not be implemented until the municipality in question is prepared to take over the follow-up. The development of full-time maternity services in all municipalities must take place over time and adapt to local conditions. Economic grants and professional guidance are important instruments and municipalities are well in the process of strengthening the capacity of this important service, including: based on the offensive efforts of the government and the cooperation parties in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1842	I thank you for your answer. When you are out of the hospital and you come home with the child, many people experience that it can be difficult to make everyday life work, and need a little starter help. According to an article written last autumn by the Nursing Aid, they now experience an explosive increase in the number of enquiries and more complex issues. They examined and found out that only 11 pst. by women in Norway live in a municipality offering home visits to midwives, in line with the guidelines. This means that too many people do not receive the help they should receive, despite the fact that the 2013 government statement states that the midwife's offer in the municipalities should be expanded, and despite the fact that the Minister of Health's own party traps in the form of a note last year said that the order of midwifery in the municipalities is too low. Some of the reason is that this is not a priority high enough, and we hear that the work is too slow. What further action will the Council of State take to ensure that this is put in place more quickly, so that the women and families who are experiencing problems today are not allowed to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1849	If I had been extremely satisfied with the situation in this area in the municipalities, I would not have worked to get priority funds to do just that. But I have done so, along with the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. We see that these means now produce results. The municipalities have been given the means to hire more people. Prioritizing an area of close to 1 billion. During a four-year period to strengthen school health services and health centres, so that municipalities can assess where they are most in need locally, I believe that a rather offensive effort is being made to contribute to the development of this particular offer, because the challenge is the midwife's capacity in the municipalities to provide a good enough offer, and there we need to put the effort in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1854	I think the Minister of Health was faced with one of the challenges here: the midwife's capacity in the municipalities. In his first answer, he points to the need for new solutions locally. A challenge with the follow-up is that the number of midwives has not increased. There is a lack of midwives, it is trained too few, because few jobs as midwives both in hospitals and in the community health service and too few midwives have a full-time job. This could be improved by thinking a little bit outside the box, for example. by employing midwives in 100 p.m. positions in a combination between the hospital and the municipality, so that midwives get their whole life in their day, and that the natives get better follow-up and more often by the same midwife, both during and after birth. However, it requires cooperation between companies and hospitals on the one hand and the municipality on the other, flexibility and good budgets on the other. Will the Council of State do anything to establish cooperation between municipalities and hospitals to increase the number of midwives in all positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1859	Yes, and we do. Firstly, we enable municipalities to contribute financially to this cooperation, and secondly, we have made clear demands for cooperation between municipalities and hospitals to be established. This is happening. For example, this model is now used in Nordfjord: the Northfjord municipalities and Health Förde have joint positions for midwives. This means that the natives in this area often experience meeting the same midwife throughout pregnancy and subsequent follow-up. It provides good and safe jobs for midwives, who are given the opportunity to work both in the municipal health service and in the specialist health service. I think it's a good model, which fits locally somewhere. It's not necessarily the model that's going to be used everywhere, but it's a model that I, in line with the representative, are very positive to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1867	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘On a question-time issue on 25 May last year, I asked the Minister of Health what measures he wants to take so that we can detect and treat lung cancer as early as possible with today’s CT-screening among former asbestos workers. The Council of State referred to cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate, LO and NHO Norsk Industrie and that a final report was due by the end of 2016. Within this risk group, 200-400 lung cancer is affected annually, and better action is urgently needed. What is the status of giving better follow-up to asbestos-exposed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1876	In my reply to the representative Bøhler last year, I referred to a work being carried out by the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work. In cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate, LO and NHO Norsk Industrie, agreement is sought on the future use of image diagnostics at work involving exposure to, among others. asbestos. A final report was expected by the end of 2016, including: should highlight the advantages and disadvantages of imaging studies in non-symbolic asbestos-exposed workers. The working group to which the representative Bøhler refers is now at the end of the work. They have looked at the scientific basis for recommending, where appropriate, screening for lung cancer among asbestos-exposed and other groups with an increased risk of developing lung cancer. The Group has reviewed and evaluated all scientific publications in this area and has evaluated practices in different countries. According to information from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, there is so far insufficient support for saying that screening programmes have such good results that they overshadow the negative effects of screening, which are well documented – both for individual patients and for society. There is a large study in the Netherlands and Belgium investigating whether screening can reduce the mortality of lung cancer in the studied group. The results shall be in the process of being published. This study is assessed by the working group, which is so relevant that the group wishes to await the results before concluding. The working group will therefore come back with final recommendations when the results of the study from the Netherlands and Belgium are available. I would like to await the final report of the working group assessing the use of imaging studies for asymptomatic asbestos-exposed workers, before considering the possible increased use of CT screening in this risk group.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1891	I thank you for your answer. This is a group that has dedicated its life to building the country. There are workers who have been builders, plumbers, carpenters, masons, janitors, etc. and now is well up in the years, most of them in retirement. These are not demanding people, so we should feel more responsible for supporting or pushing their case – getting a move on. I have to say that there are few things that are so vital and urgent. As the Council of State replied to me last time, up to 350 deaths are related to asbestos exposure in Norway. An Italian report, presented in October 2016, showed that it was 80 pst. reduction of lung cancer among asbestos-exposed by early CT screening of that group. Does the Council of State feel that these deferrals are duly justified?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1898	This working group has gone through the existing international studies, and as I said in my original answer, this does not provide this basis for saying that a screening has such positive effects that it compensates for the negative effect of screening both on individuals and on society. Now, as I said, there is a major study in the Netherlands and Belgium, as the working group, which is composed of the parties, will feel that it is so important that they want to await the results of this study before making their final recommendations. I think that's a wise approach. The alternative was that they had now come to a conclusion based on the studies they already have access to, but it may, based on the information I have received, indicate that there would have been a conclusion that was not in accordance with the wishes of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1903	Thanks also for the follow-up response. This group has the right under the Working Environment Act and the asbestos regulation — and also the EU legislation on asbestos. It differs from general screening of other potential risk groups in society. They have rights and are a high risk group for lung cancer. When they have the right to study with the best available technology – the Council of State was also involved in the answer of 25 May last year – I have a problem understanding that there can be a real professional discussion about CT screening is a better technology than the x-ray, and also whether it is not for such a high-risk group – with so many affected by lung cancer – are major advantages in doing the research, rather than the negative consequences that the Council of State has. This has been a professional discussion in the health settings for all years. I want to ask if the council shares my impatience.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1910	I understand and share the impatience. Now it's like neither the representative nor I'm a doctor, which means that we experience several times that there are things that we're being presented to, that seem very logical. However, when assessed professionally, other conclusions are reached, simply because this type of offer should be based on scientifically documented links between action and effect. There is no doubt that exposing healthy people to CT studies also has a negative health effect. We have to be sure that we do not initiate programs based on our belief that this is wise – and then we do this group in some major harm. This needs to be avoided precisely through the type of evaluation of scientific evidence currently being carried out by the working group.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1918	‘The Government Party of the Right does not listen to its own women’s forum, the people or the Biotechnology Council in the matter of allowing egg donation. As so often before, the Right is slowing for equality and for technology development. Reduced paper size, right of reservation and now egg donation. The range of issues that restrict women's rights and privatise the issue of gender equality is becoming long. Why will the Council of State not open up to allow egg donation, and thus ensure that women and men have equal rights?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1925	As announced in the Government Platform, this government will evaluate the Biotechnology Act. We are planning to present a big message on this during the spring, and then this will be a topic. To the representative's presentation of the lot Right in these kinds of cases: I think there are few parties that have such a lively and continuous discussion about biotechnology issues as the lot Right. But I want to say that making the question of egg donation one-sided into a gender equality issue makes one ignore absolutely essential questions. Egg donation and sperm donation are not the same, neither medically nor ethically. Medically, egg donation means that a person who does not need medical treatment is exposed to the risks and pressures of medical treatment. In order to be an egg donor, a hormone treatment must be performed. But this is something that ethically does not take lightly in other areas of health care, namely to expose healthy people to treatment that they themselves do not need. Secondly, egg donation means that the child who is born has a biological relationship not only to the woman who gives birth, but also, of course, to the woman who has donated the egg. It creates a whole new situation for the child. These are conditions which are not present in the case of semen donation. If one goes into this discussion – as the Workers' Party seems to be doing – by simplifying it by saying that this is only about equality, I believe that one ignores important both medical and ethical differences between egg donation and sperm donation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1934	Many countries that we could like to compare with, and which have the same type of ethical and moral basic anchoring as Norway, allow egg donation today. So right as difficult as the state council here is going to make it, I can't agree that it is. I don't see the big ethical dilemma in this. But then I'm in trouble, because I've read that the Council of State has said before a new dimension is created by one woman putting eggs at the disposal, another woman giving birth to the child. Today, you have women who adopt children. Then they have a biological mother for their child. Here we have a situation with a woman who has a child who has another biological/genetic mother, and who she has born herself. Why would this create a more difficult situation? Or does it create an easier situation? The councils just say that it creates a situation. I'm a little interested in getting to the bottom of this: how does he really think this situation is? Is it good, is it bad?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1941	Firstly, if a person approaches these kinds of questions with the same starting point as the representative does, namely that because other countries have allowed this, it should be allowed in Norway, we can cancel having Norwegian biotechnology legislation. Then a person can leave these kinds of questions to the doctors and let them control the development. It's a development that I want to warn very strongly against. This is a type of issue that does not only affect individuals, it affects the entire development of society. If one in this area only allows researchers to define what should be law and not law, a very quick one will move into a situation where we get a less diverse society, where the acceptance of inequality becomes less – and thus create the impression that we can create people from the image of man. It's an evolution that I want to warn against.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1948	This is a harsh message from the Council of State to many of our European neighbours, but let it lie. I would like to get to the bottom of the claim from the Council of State that there is a whole new dimension, the situation, by one woman having to use the egg, the genetic material, to another woman. Then she gives birth to this child, brings it to the world. The council says that then the child has a biological connection with two mothers. Is that bad? Is that better? Is it possible that women choose to adopt a child to whom they have no genetic connection, but are mother-in-law? That a mother is allowed to use another woman's genetic material, but has a biological connection with the child – as the council says – is it more difficult, or is it worse? I don't quite understand what the Council of State really thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1955	It is a little difficult for me to see if the representative of Wickholm perceives that there is a difference. Let me underline, there's a difference. It is new that a child born by a woman is not completely biological to the child of the woman who gives birth to it. It's a whole new situation. The child will have a biological connection both to the woman who has donated the egg and to the woman who has carried it. There is also a new situation for children, which it is essential to focus on in this discussion. Not least, there is also a significant difference in sperm donation. In considering whether you think this is a positive thing, a neutral thing or a negative thing, this is exactly the kind of question you have to include in the discussion. But to present this as the same thing as adoption or the same thing as sperm donation is directly wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1962	So we go to question 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1971	This question, from the representative Lise Wiik to the Minister of Justice and Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Health and Welfare who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1976	‘The Ombudsman and the Equality Ombudsman have expressed concerns about the situation of women in prison. Research and studies show that many women face major health challenges. Serious episodes of violence and abuse often occur, but women do not receive treatment for their severe traumas. In contrast to the government, the Labour Party has prioritised funding for women's health in our budgets. Why does the government not give priority to the provision of health care to women in prison, even if it could contribute to better rehabilitation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1983	It is the Health Directorate that distributes grants in healthcare and dental care for prisoners in prison. The funds are allocated to host municipalities and host municipalities for prisons, based on the number of settlements of different categories. The need to distribute funds based on gender has not been reported. Specialised health services for prisoners in prison are financed through the framework grant to the health region. In the 2017 budgetary procedure, the Stortinget decided to increase the contribution to the prison health service by 10 million. to improve the provision of prison inmates with drug problems and mental health problems. I'm familiar with the report from the Civil Ombudsman, where, among other things, It appears that female prisoners collectively have a lower provision of compensation than men. This is under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and Security. The report also says that female prisoners have health problems other than men. So we also know that the incidence of mental illness among prisoners in Norwegian prisons is much higher than among the general population. It shows the Cramer report from the Competence Centre for Safety, Prison and Judicial Psychiatry Health Region South-East of Oslo University Hospital. In general, the proportion of women with mental disorders was about as high as that of men. Women had a slightly higher incidence of some disorders than men, while other disorders were somewhat higher for men than for women. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare and the Directorate of Health have produced 16 proposals for action to improve the organisation and content of treatment provision for prisoners with mental health problems and/or drug problems. The measures concern both healthcare and criminal services. None of the proposals for measures were gender-specific, but of course they will also apply to women. The two departments now have the measures to be assessed and a follow-up proposal is planned to be clear before the summer holiday. In conclusion, I would like to mention that in the 2016 Health Regions mission document, I called for the establishment of more mental health services in Norwegian prisons. In this it is that such offers will also apply to women. This requirement will be reported by health regions during March, and I will follow up on whether the requirement has been met.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e1998	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I hear that the Council of State is concerned about the problem. I'm glad. It is also the case that housing conditions for women in prison create and trigger health problems, because they have more difficult housing conditions than men, to which the Council of State correctly points. The report of the Civil Ombudsman, to which the Council of State also referred, provides alarming information. I'll just quote some of the findings there: «More women's prisons are located in old and unsuitable buildings. Many women have a significantly lower supply than men in outdoor areas and offer physical activity. Women have consistently poorer access to real work than men do. Women in prison have lower rates of drug use compared to men.’ [[...]] This means that women develop extra plagues when they're in reconciliation. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: In the light of this knowledge, does the Council of State see the need for structural changes in order to better protect women's health under reconciliation today? I'm aware, President, that this may belong to another department, but it's the same government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2023	I think it's important what the representative says, that some of the health challenges we see among prisoners, among women, are about reconciliation. It is then important that we not only work to strengthen health services, but also address the cause of health problems being reinforced or emerging, namely conditions. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and Security — there is no doubt about it — but there is no doubt that the Ministry of Justice and Defence has now worked on a number of measures that also improve settlement conditions, including: by upgrading and planning new prisons. The provision of housing in the Netherlands frees out housing, which also allows women to improve their housing conditions. This is a question that I have answered earlier on behalf of the Minister of Justice. I don't remember all the details in my head, but the answer went along these lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2028	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to draw up an additional problem area from the same report. Women in mixed prisons are at increased risk of unwanted attention or sexual harassment from male prisoners. This is a known issue. Then is my short question: does the Council of State see the need to establish its own prisons adapted to women in addition to the few we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2035	Again, my representative challenges memory, for this is a question that I have answered earlier on behalf of the Minister of Justice, once he did not have the opportunity to meet in the Questionnaire. As far as I remember, it's exactly what's happening now, that there are more prison places that are specially adapted to women, through the work done by the Justice and Defence Department. But there also the representative has the opportunity to go back and look at the record from a previous questioning session, and she will get a more accurate answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2040	We then go back to question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2048	‘In the criteria for obtaining, among other things, the Medal of War, there is a requirement for action far beyond what can be expected. There are strict documentation requirements to get the Medal of War. At Altagård we have a memorial with the names of the soldiers who gave their lives to defend Norway's freedom. Similar monuments can be found across the whole country. Why is it not giving their lives in the fight for freedom of the country a good enough evidence of an effort that should be judged far beyond what you can expect?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2055	A large number of women and men participated in active resistance in the five dark war years. Many of them were under constant threat of the death penalty. More than 44 000 Northmen were arrested and imprisoned, and between 10,000 and 11,000 people lost their lives as a result of acts of war. Everyone who fought for freedom at the time deserves our recognition, respect and gratitude, regardless of whether they participated in military or civil. Often, the courageous actions of ordinary people were the prerequisite for military action. Nevertheless, there were very many forms of resistance work that fell outside the criteria for a war decoration. It wasn't enough to have given his life in the fight for the country's freedom. Fighting and, if necessary, falling were — and are — what the country required of all women and men under protection. In the spring of 1945, the Statutes for the Medal of War were amended so that it could be granted post-mortem status to Norwegians and non-residents who had fought in the Norwegian forces and the merchant fleet and fell on Norway's cause. The person who was to be decorated post-mortem had to have performed an act or action that would only lead to decoration before he died – to decorate post-mortem only means that the decoration was awarded after the death. As the statutes were practiced, the individual candidate also had to meet a number of criteria. For example, this had to be done. be a direct causal link between military effort and death, the failed one must have relatives alive, and the relatives had to meet a dignity criterion set at that time. It is estimated that approx. 4,500 has been awarded the post-mortem War Medal to fight and fall for Norway's cause. The total number of Norwegians who died, as I said, was between 10,000 and 11,000. This means that the authorities at the time were relatively rusty in their allocations, even though far from all of them got decoration. The decorative practice at the time is history. It can be analyzed, it can be described, and it can even be criticised, but it is difficult to change it. A war decoration is one of very many expressions of recognition for efforts during the war. The government has wanted to honor and give recognition broader as well. We introduced in 2015 the government's memorial of civil and military efforts during World War II. It's almost 1 100 people who have received this memory medal, and we're going to pass it on. One of the most recent ones to get it was Rasmus Utsi in Porsanger, who got it on February 7. Then also, on May 8th, is one of the most important arenas in society to mark the very recognition and gratitude we feel as a nation, and that applies to both older and younger veterans. In addition, the government, with which the representative is well-known, supports research programmes, monuments, memorials, exhibitions and a wide range of other expressions of the recognition of the victims of the war, and it is a practice we are going to continue with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2068	The answer is enough as expected. It's close to believing that the 1,300 people who have been recorded, among other things. At the invitation of the Council of State, which gave life for Norway’s freedom, had earned a war medal — something more than just getting good words. According to the Council of State's replies, it is obvious that bureaucratic considerations are more important than the expectation of thousands of survivors and others that the injustice done to their efforts during World War II should finally be corrected. But not at that time – that effort was not considered good enough. In my question I have mentioned the fallen in Alta battalion. I could have mentioned the Thunder Battalion, those who fell on the Hopseide, the partisans of East Finland, the Osvald group here in Oslo – all they deserved and deserved more than words. Why the council chooses to do what she does is incomprehensible. The argument used in the public space is too many not credible. I understand that many people choose to characterize the decision of the Council of State as embarrassing, embarrassing and shameful. Does the Council of State take up this criticism?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2077	It was violent. First of all, there has never been any guarantee that you would decorate what was sent by name, nor has it been given that an error was committed. It was precisely the historic project, which was put down during the reign of the Workers' Party, that was to look at. They have clearly pointed out, through the book that I just gave the representative, that the decorative practice does not provide a basis for saying that there were systematic differences. There are no bureaucratic considerations on the ground; there are assessments of what was practice at the time. The fact that one should possibly go in and change a practice that had its reasons in relation to the present, I believe historically, is ethically questionable. That is why we have made this thorough assessment. So to Alta battalion: the fallen soldiers who fought at Narvik were awarded the post-mortem War Medal to fight and fall for Norway's cause, if they met the criteria. The fall from Alta Battalion was awarded the post-mortem War Medal to fight and fall for Norway's cause, in line with other failings.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2086	I hear what the council says. But what many feel have happened in this case is that from assessing their efforts this has gradually become a book project, where you can see that it is not only the one book that is to be written, but that a new book will also come out later – in other words, I think this has gone from assessing the effort to become a commercial project. Many react in this way — that a few historians have obtained exclusive access to all information on, among other things. 1 300 people have been involved in bringing in. And in order for them to have access to that information, they have to be so good in a queue at a bookstore and buy the book. Many people feel that this is a turn and a change in a mandate, which has been given from among others. that project when it started up, as one finds it difficult to understand. I wonder if the Council of State understands that there are quite a number of people who feel a sense of anger when you see the turn of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2091	This, I think, was a completely unreasonable criticism. Firstly, the historic project was not necessarily reduced to look at individual decorations, but to see if there were biases in the systematic allocation of decorations. So the historian project and I asked to get additional names if there was information that the historian project didn't put on, that could form a basis, but there was no guarantee that it could form the basis for decorations with the top three medals. So I think it would be very strange if all the work the historian project has done over five years was not to be collected between two permes and made available to the public. In these days I sit and sign several hundred letters to all those who have sent in names of people they think deserve a decoration. They'll have to book. It's also going to be published a book in which we're just raising the stories to all of the people who have been sent names, but who didn't necessarily qualify for decorations with the three highest hanging denominations. I think that's a good way to contribute to bringing history forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2101	I want to ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘Andøjpost writes on 28 January 2017 that, on behalf of the government, Avinor has allocated the costs for the construction of a new airport in Bodø. Avinor concludes that Bodø can have a new Airport, including track system, navigation facilities, terminal buildings and facilities required for 4-5 billion. krones. The State Council can confirm these calculations from Avinor, and how it is possible for the Ministry of Defence to claim that an extension of the crosswind path by 1,000 metres on Andy Island will cost close to 3 billion. crowns?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2110	The exposure around Andøya is large, and it's understandable. Clearly, it has consequences for the Andeya population for the airbase to be laid down. However, the exposure has also given an unfurnished and incorrect picture in many contexts and often at such a high rate that it has been difficult to correct everything at the same time. I therefore think it is necessary to remember the following first: The question about the crosswind path on Andøya is only relevant if there were fighter aircraft on Andøya. Kampfly is vulnerable to the wind from the side, especially when they take off and land with the load of weapons. Wind problems and the cost of expanding the Andeya cross-wind route were one of the reasons why a contingency base for QRA operations was added to Evenes, but that choice was made in relation to the treatment of the previous long-term defence sector plan. It was presented when Navarsete himself was in government. A thorough review of all aspects, both operational, technical and economic, as we have done in the context of the new long-term plan, confirms that Evenes was the right choice for QRA preparedness. Updated calculations, which also provide experience in the development of Ørland, show that it would be even more expensive than initially assumed to expand Andeya for this purpose. Therefore, this question of the costs of a cross-windway in Andøya is not relevant to the chosen solution contained in the long-term plan. I recommend insofar as the representative Navarsete does not put up a rematch on his own government decision from 2011. So specifically to the question: The Minister for Transport has informed that a transfer of Bodø airport, including rail system, navigation facilities, terminal buildings and necessary operational facilities from Avinor’s operations, in a report from Avinor to the Department in December 2016, is estimated to cost between 4.5 and 5 billion. kr, excluding building loan interest. However, costs do not include cleaning up environmental pollution, removal costs of defence infrastructure and construction. Roads and technical infrastructure outside the airport are also excluded. Such measures may be added. It is financed by others, and that is why, for example: air carriers, oil companies, road authorities, etc. The report to Avinor therefore uses a slightly different assumption than what can be introduced for the construction of an aeroplane base compared to a civil base. Had Andøya been chosen as QRA base in 2011, the crosswind path would have to be extended by about 1000 metres to meet the NATO requirements. There is no reason to doubt the cost figures set out in Avinor’s report, but I would nevertheless like to point out what I just said, that it is difficult to compare these figures for a civil airport with the figures for a military airport, and what the report itself says, which is common at such an early stage of the process, is that the figures are obsessed with significant uncertainty, and that a final estimate for the construction of a new airport in Bodø will only be available after completion of the project, estimated 2019/2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2119	I thank you for your answer. I would like to refer to Andøyposten, which on 17 February refers to a report from Rambøll made in 2012, where the conclusion was that Evenes had to extend the runway by 1,000 metres in order to get good glide paths. On direct questions to the Secretary of State about the government planning for this, Secretary of State Bø replied that then ‘you’re at a level of detail I don’t have the prerequisites to respond to’. Given that the government has estimated large costs of extending the runway on Andeya, on page 77 of the government’s long-term plan, it is particularly perceptive that the State Secretary can mention such a question as a detail. Can the Council of State clarify whether there is a need for a longer runway at Evenes, and my Council of State is confident that the Secretary of State cannot answer such a fundamental question in such a big and important matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2126	I'm sure the Andey post didn't include the whole context in the State Secretary's statement. Renewal of the runway on Evenes is not relevant. It is already among Norway's longest, at 2,800 metres, and there is no need to extend that runway. It has been clarified by the State Secretary in an article in the Andey Post precisely because this was taken out of context, and it has never been relevant — and it is not in the calculations either — to extend the runway on Evenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2131	I thank you again for your answer. There's a lot of anxiety between the members of the Defence Force and the people of Northern Norway. Not least, many people are concerned about the highest possible use of defence resources. I myself have been on Andøya several times in the last year, and like the inhabitants, I experience that the list of unexplained questions grows faster than the clarifications we get from the government. During the management of the long-term plan, a Joint Committee was set up: ‘If there are significant changes to the decision-making basis, the Committee takes the view that the government will return to the Grand Duchy in the context of the revised national budget in spring 2017 with an update.’;» Can the Council of State do something for what it thinks is a significant change in the basis of decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2143	What the Committee says is that if there are significant changes to the decision-making basis, the government will return to the Storting with an update. It is a unanimous comitology, and it should also be lacking. A government always does that. It goes on to say that the government, of course, in connection with Prop. 1 S to the autumn will provide information on the further progress and development of the work on the decisions of the establishment. We have no indication that there should be changes of such a nature in the decision-making basis that is now available. We are now carrying out a concept selection investigation at Evenes, which is going on this year, in order to detail things like this. the location of the different buildings and facilities in order to optimise the use of the existing infrastructure. I recently visited Evenes to look at the plant again and to look at all the reusables that are there. I am absolutely sure that we will have a good base for both maritime patrol aircraft and fighter aircraft when the base is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2153	‘It is a major challenge to provide enough teachers of multiple genders for the Norwegian school. In particular, very few male applicants for primary school teachers are in step 1-7, and in 2015 less than 1 out of 5 applicants arrived on a national basis, men. Therefore, there are also classes of teacher training today that can consist only of women. What does the Council of State think about this, and what are the government’s solutions to ensure a better balanced teacher training that reflects our society more?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2160	Of course, I agree that we need more men in primary education at 1–7. steps, possibly especially at 1–7. steps. Not least we need more men to work as teachers at school, so we get more applicants, more students and more teachers into the school that are men. Figures from Coordinated Recording show that in 2016 there were 1 200 new students who met for this education, and that 20,5 pst. of which, i.e. 247, there were men. In school as such, the proportion of men in the secondary and secondary stages has been declining and was down to 25 pst. in 2015. That's the bad news. The positive side is that there has been a positive development in the recruitment of men to elementary school teacher education 1 to 7 in recent years, from 17.1 pst. in 2010 to 20,5 pst. in 2016. But of course I'm not satisfied with this. I think it's good for boys to meet male role models in the early school years. I also believe that diversity is a strength in school, as in all other areas. On questions from the representative Trond Giske in October 2016, I stressed in another context that the government cannot change traditional educational choices alone. Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. Nevertheless, we have a very gender-based labour market, which is also reflected in educational choices. It is a societal challenge that more than just government needs to address and work on. Fortunately, there is a better gender balance in teacher training aimed at the higher levels of primary school. In 2016, it was probably 40 pst. of those who met for primary education 5–10 and about. 43 pst. of those who met for teacher training, men. The proportion of men in higher education in total is about 40 pst. In general, the proportion of men in youth is 38 pst. I think schools and school owners need to take greater responsibility. I also believe that we need to learn more from those who do this, for example. The Oslo and Akershus College, which for years has focused on recruiting exactly men, but also people with immigrant backgrounds, for teacher training, among others. through information material, a grant scheme and different types of fade and mentoring arrangements. I'm going to follow up, among other things. by bringing this up in the governance dialogue with universities and colleges. I will also contact the National Council for Teacher Training to have a dialogue on how teacher training can further contribute in terms of recruitment. Can e.g. the measures taken by the College of Oslo and Akershus are transferred to other institutions? In that case, what could the contribution of the authorities be? I am also open to proposals that can help improve the gender balance of primary school teacher education for 1–7. steps. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to refer to a letter from the Minister for Children and Gender, dated 21 February, which states that, as a general rule, positive special treatment is only lawful if it is appropriate to promote the purpose of the law and if there is a reasonable relationship between what is desired and the extent to which discrimination will be applied to the person or persons who are disadvantaged. [[The President clubs.]] President, I'm asking you to read this done, because it's an important information for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2181	I hope it's not too far.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2186	New common equality and discrimination laws will not finally clarify which types of positive treatment are permitted, for example: the availability of additional credits or the introduction of allowances for the under-represented sex in the event of admission to education. This has to be further investigated, and I will come back in an appropriate way as soon as I have got clarity on the matter and how it affects our field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2191	The councils were in on it: only 25 pst. Of all teachers who work in primary school, men — that is, every four teachers. We have to make sure these people want to stay in school. The teachers who started their teacher training this year will hopefully be working in school for many, many years to come. In other words, the gender balance will also be distorted for quite many years to come if no stronger action is taken than the Council of State. Does the Council have any thoughts about what is going on in order to keep the men who are already working at school?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2198	Thanks for the follow-up question. First of all, I think the most important thing is that the school in general is a good job. I also believe that the most important general measure to improve the recruitment of men for the teacher’s study is to show that a master’s degree in teaching is demanding, rewarding, interesting, but also difficult. In terms of how to get more men to want to be in school, we have no concrete action aimed at men in school other than what can then be done locally, for example. have their own networks if you wish. But we have now said that we should look, together with the parties, at how we can create a national framework for the school guidance system. To have a good guidance system, where, for example: Consider also whether there are concrete issues related to teachers of different sexes can be an important contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2207	I want to move from the male teachers to the boys who are students at school. And let me hurry to say that there doesn't have to be any connection here, but last week there was a debate that Norwegian school isn't made for boys. The debate was raised on the basis that twice as many boys as girls receive special education. The Minister of Knowledge said in an interview that we have a boy problem in Norwegian school, and that there is something that should worry us a lot. What I'm asking is, what does the Council of State intend to do – except to worry very much?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2214	Let me just first clarify what I mean by that we have a boy problem. It is not really bad for boys most, but for the negative statistics we have, ranging from the share of special education, to the proportion of students who are below the critical limit on national tests, the proportion of weak readers in PISA and the drop-out statistics, the boys are overrepresented. That's what I mean by that we have a boy problem. And it's not just in school, it's spreading across the whole community. I think the most important vaccine against this is a strong knowledge school, which puts in the effort early. We know that it plays a big role in how early you put in the effort, for example. for breaking the read and write code, e.g. If you learn to do real math. When we know at the same time that one of the biggest ironing subjects and one of the biggest drop-out causes in high school is mathematics, that kind of action, although for everyone, will be extra important for boys in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2224	This question, from Karianne O. Heavy to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of Culture on behalf of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who has been away. The question will be raised by the representative Ferhat Güven, then the representative Karianne O. Heavy has become ill.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2231	‘STAMI studies show that the most significant risk factor for a high level of medically reported sick absence among women in the health and social sectors was violence and threats of violence at work. They have about 70 pst. higher risk of a high level of sick absence compared to those not exposed to it. Many on the right-hand side want to have karendays and cut off the sick pay. Does the Council of State think it is right that these women should also be cut off their wages, and if not, what can be done to prevent it if the cuts are introduced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2238	Thank you for the question. I have noticed STAMI's research, which shows a higher risk of sick leave in health and social professions as a result of employees being more often exposed to violence and threats of violence. In some professions, employees are more exposed to situations of threats of violence and, in fact, violence. In such professions, employers have a special responsibility to organise and organise their work so that employees can experience the meeting with their users as safe and predictable. STAMI also points out that this is an area that should be given priority in preventive work. This is an important part of the background to the introduction of a new regulation on violence and threats in the workplace from 1 January this year. It regulates the responsibilities of the employer for the monitoring of conditions at work that could lead to violence and threats, training and practice in preventing and dealing with violence and threats and providing employees with the necessary information on risk factors at work related to violence and threats. It also regulates the employer's obligation to take the necessary measures in the light of the risks to health and safety identified and the follow-up of workers in such situations. The current sick pay scheme does not distinguish between different work environment factors such as causes of illness or injury resulting in disability. I also see it as little relevant to propose a system where different cause factors for reduced working capacity will have an impact on the compensation of the sick pay scheme. Instead, employers and employees’ organisations must work actively to facilitate and prevent and organise their work so that threats of violence and actual violence are reduced as much as possible. At the conclusion of today’s IA agreement, there was otherwise agreement on an increased focus on prevention work, and changes were made to legislation and instruments to support this work. The in-flight assessment of the contract last autumn shows that there is still room to work better and get further on this objective. In this work, different organisations and industries can learn from each other, including the use of knowledge from STAMI and other relevant competence environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2253	I thank you for your answer. I have a follow-up question. Every year thousands of women are also subjected to domestic violence, a sadly more concealed reason for sick leave than for those who are subjected to violence at work. Does the Council agree that the introduction of qualifying days and cuts in the sick pay scheme, as many on the right-hand side want, will hit this group extra hard? And what does she think could be possible measures to remedy this if such cuts are introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2260	I agree with the representative that violence against women, both at home and at work, is a very serious problem, and therefore I am also very pleased that there is a lot of good work to be done around to prevent and provide measures that ensure as far as possible the safety of employees. So today's sick pay system is fixed. We are clear on this in the government's political platform. That's why I can't wonder what might happen if there's any change. Under the IA agreement, the government and the authorities have also undertaken not to propose changes to the sickness pay scheme during the contractual period. That's why there's no reason to speculate on anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2267	Can we therefore conclude that the Council of State agrees with the signing that cuts in sick pay particularly affect women who are exposed to violence, and that it will be impossible to implement adequate measures to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2272	I am pleased that today's health pay system is fixed, and that the government is very clear on it in its platform. I am also pleased that there is a lot of good work being done around just to prevent and prevent this from happening. It's a lot to get to work systematically on this. There's a lot of municipalities doing, there's a lot of public agencies doing – and working very well on it. Where there is a high level of sick leave, it is also most likely to be obtained by introducing measures. That is why I am pleased with the clarification that has been put in place with the regulation. I also believe that questions about the day of retirement and cuts in the sick pay system, as I said, are hypothetical. There is no current issue now. This government is related to what's on the platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2284	‘Norwegian film industry has been talking about gender equality for years. In the film conciliation, the Government instructed the government to take action to improve gender balance and maintain the objective of at least 40 pst. by each sex in key positions. In an interview in Tromsø in January, the Council of State stated that ‘an objective of this kind must not go along with artistic freedom’. Does the State Council believe that if she had called for the objective to be achieved, for example through the active use of the aid schemes, it would become worse?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2291	Of course, I deal with the film deal the way it was adopted in Stortinget, and I am working on following up the Stortinge decision – it is also well going on. In the 2016 letter of award, the Norwegian Film Institute was asked to take action within its arrangements to contribute to a more balanced gender balance. The Film Institute has reviewed its existing instrument and assessed new measures to improve gender balance in Norwegian films. In June 2016, the NFI presented an action plan for gender balance in Norwegian film, prepared after filming itself. The representative, Grung, mentions the active use of the aid schemes as measures to achieve the objective of at least 40 pst. by each sex in key positions. Here I would like to point out that we are already actively using the support schemes to stimulate a better gender balance in this field. The Norwegian Film Institute has been asked in the 2017 award letter to continue today’s practice of moderate sex quotaing in its grant schemes. It is also necessary for the Norwegian Film Institute to consider further measures within its systems that can contribute to a more balanced gender balance, in the light of that gender balance action plan. One of the main objectives set by the government for the film area is to facilitate a wide and varied range of services of high quality. By stimulating more women into key roles in films, we can contribute to this and to a greater diversity of artistic expressions. There are already many capable women working in key positions in Norwegian films, so NFI’s practice of moderate sex quotaing in their schemes can help to make the skills, knowledge and experience of these women visible. In order to achieve a good gender balance, an overall approach is needed where several instruments are used. Actions aimed at different parts of the life cycle of filmmakers are important to ensure long-term and sustained changes as well as an immediate impact. The Film Institute has therefore assessed actions in three broad areas: (1) talent development, (2) grant schemes and (3) communication and knowledge. A major evaluation of the action plan is now planned in 2020. We hope it will show good results. We also want to see if there are any structural obstacles that the government can do to improve gender balance. It is important to stress that the industry itself has a responsibility to ensure that the gender balance in Norwegian films is improved, while we, as politicians, should also be committed to facilitating good diversity and gender balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2306	The question is precisely the last state council to mention – what signals does the state council give? In the interview in Tromsø she says that quotaing will be a restriction of artistic freedom. Is it the case that the Council of State formulates a message externally – that she is opposed to quotaing, that she does not believe that equality is an objective of Norwegian film policy – and works within the framework of what she has just outlined, which is actually an order from Stortinget to achieve the goal of at least 40 pst.? We have a piece to go to get equality in Norwegian film policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2311	I fully agree with the representative that we have a way to go, and that is why I am pleased with what the Stortinget decided, that demands must also be made – not least for the industry. The industry must also see for itself that it misses half of the resources on which the population sits, precisely by not securing so many women in front and behind the camera, to write scripts and to be in the entire course of a film production. I am very pleased that the industry itself has been active, and I also feel that the industry is very busy taking action on its own. It has made many good contributions to this action plan, and I absolutely believe it will work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2318	Movies are actually one of the cultural offerings that reach most. 71 pst. were in cinema at least once last year. It is a very powerful medium also through television and digital platforms, and it is perhaps also one of the strongest cultural instruments for reflecting Norwegian reality. It's a little special, at least when you spend the community's money, that they don't go more focused on reflecting also the reality women have, both through the use of leading roles, as the Evening Post was about, because it's pretty stereotyped roles women get, either as wives or as girlfriends, and also, as the Council of State was about, by developing a script that reflects Norwegian reality. The Actors’ Association has proposed that key roles should be included as a priority criterion in the allocation of support. Is that a view and a proposal that the Council of State supports?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2323	I'm very happy that this question comes up, because I think it's important that we from the political side too are very clear about saying that exactly what the representative is about, is something we're following. The artistic expressions, what is also conveyed through art, whether it's on a stage or a movie, should also reflect the society we live in. There we are concerned with good gender balance and equality. We hear stories, especially from female actors, which tell us that when they get up at a certain age, they're not as attractive to the major roles, which attract the big audience, which men are. It's a problem they're concerned about. That's why I'm going to consider the recording that the Federation of Actors has made, before I come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2328	Question 26 has been dealt with earlier, so we go to question 27.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2336	"It is a year since Nasim Karim, a leader in the gender equality and disability selection in PF, stated that women are discriminated against in the police, and that sexual harassment is a problem. She also said, "The frames of the police are created by men for men. Women are not given the same opportunities. It’s an illusion that there’s equality.” The description showed a need to intensify the work on culture, leadership and equality in the police. What has the government done to improve the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2343	Equality is an important part of the human resources policy of the Police and the People's Republic of China. Any form of harassment or discrimination on the grounds of sex is totally unacceptable. I am directing the police action through letters of assignment and the governance dialogue with the Police Directorate. In my 2017 letter of assignment to the Directorate of Police, I ask that the Directorate explain the status of what measures have been taken to increase the proportion of female leaders if it is below 40 pst. The Directorate of Police shall also draw up a status report for gender equality. The share of women managers with human resources in the police was 30 p.m. in 2016. In particular, the proportion of leaders in police positions is low. So it's a goal of 40 pst. of all new executives shall be women. In 2015, the government appointed ten new police officers, four of them women, and in 2016 twelve new visa police officers, five of them women. Police officers shall work to achieve 40 pst. female managers in their districts and units, which are the same target as elsewhere in the country. This is reflected in the police officers' management contract and one of several points on which they will be measured. The Police Directorate will follow up its work on meeting the objectives of the underlying units. In 2016, the Police Directorate developed an overall gender balance plan in management positions, with the aim of reaching 30 p.m. by 2022. by every gender in police positions and 40 pst. in management positions in total. In recent years, the proportion of women at the Police College has been around 40 p.m. Gender balance among students is absolutely necessary to increase the proportion of women in police and police positions in the longer term. The police directorate has put in place various measures that can increase the number of women leaders in the police, including the police. talent program, workshop, mentoring program. The Directorate of Police has also developed a new recruitment guide to facilitate clean processes and the recruitment of highly qualified staff. There is much to do to promote equality at all levels of the Norwegian police, and this is a work that must have a sustained focus and follow-up at all levels of leadership in order to succeed. I will also follow this up with the Directorate of Police.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2362	I thank you for your answer. I understand, among other things: at 40 pst. of the newcomers shall be women, and that it shall be a target. My question is, how are the police leaders going to achieve this goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2369	It's through the day-to-day work they do, in their recruitment. I expect you to follow it up. The police have some obligations there, like every other place in the state, to achieve gender balance. So it's expected to happen. I think it's important that the POD facilitates the recruitment of more female leaders. I believe that it is important to ensure that there are good, real recruitment processes in all employment, and that it promotes good attitudes, good culture, good management. The Directorate of Police shall be a place of work where the Code of Recruitment is complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2376	In Report. St. 10 for 2016-2017, which is now being treated at Stortinget, says: «Public sector holding, culture and management may be affected by management and policy.» It is further stated in the same document: ‘An important work for the government is to develop appropriate management framework conditions in order to ensure good governance and efficiency.’ My question is then: can the Council of State indicate that it is «appropriate framework conditions»?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2391	I believe that the framework conditions, in the sense that we have clear expectations and clear demands for gender balance, are present to the greatest extent. As I was in my first answer, we are quite dependent on recruiting more women through police training, which can also become future leaders. I think that in the future we will also evaluate culture and attitudes. It has also asked the Ministry of Justice and Defence to do so. In the context of the evaluation of the close police reform, inter alia: the police's work on attitudes, culture and management is assessed and presented during the current year. This evaluation will ensure that the near-police reform in practice also meets the expectations of the government and the Stortinget to the police in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2398	Thus, the ordinary questionnaire is changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-22.ana.ud417e2411	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. It does not appear that any of those present are asking for the word. - The meeting's been cancelled.
