ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e76	The representatives of Ingeborg Amanda Vossken, Jenny Klinge, Eirik Sivertsen and Trond Gissen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Akershus County: Are Health For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen, Rangdi Krogstad and Hege Jensen For the Rogaland County: Marie Liones Breek For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Gunhild Berge Stag For the Province of Troms: Regina Alexandrova For Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen Two permit applications are available: from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on leave from 22 May to 24 May to attend the meeting of the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Reykjavik by the Workers' Group on sickness leave of the representative Knut Storberget from 22 May until further notice. Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Ingunn Gjerstad, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, for Hedmark County of Thor Lillehovde and for Oslo Olivia Corso Salles, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e163	Thor Lillehovde and Olivia Corso Salles are present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e187	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e205	I'm a real oil kid, grew up in Stavanger in the middle of the golden oil age, where we all knew someone who worked in the oil. When I grew up in the 1990s, work on safety had come so far that the fear that your father did not come home from work had become minimal. Norway has a great oil history for 50 long years, and there is little doubt that there is a high level of safety on Norwegian soil today. We have a lot to be proud of and good results to point to, where competence and tripartite cooperation have been the key to success, where we have managed to meet the new challenges that have come, where we have always improved, and it has become safer. In 2016 we marked that it was 50 years since we found the oil. In 2017 we show that it is 50 years since we received the safety regulations that were drawn up by the Council of Oils in the Ministry of Industry. The regulation included, inter alia: the most essential requirements for search-drilling emergency equipment and rescue organisation. Our oil history has shown that we have taken action when necessary, because there is little doubt that the safety challenges associated with the first exploration and deployment phase on the Norwegian base were large. Between 1965 and 1978, a total of 82 workers died in connection with the activities on the Norwegian pedestal. Only during the expansion of the Ekofisk field from 1971 to 1977, 45 workers and 16 of them died in helicopter sharks. The accident that perhaps got the most international attention back then was the uncontrolled blast out of the Bravo platform in Ekofisk. The Bravo accident did not lead to serious injury, but to an oil spill of 22,500 tonnes of oil. It was said that the American oil companies that came to Norway took a little of their cowboy culture to Norway, where trade unions were four-quarters, the hierarchy of the companies was strict and the earnings stood in the high seat. However, work to improve the safety of the Norwegian base produced results. From the Alexander Kielland accident in 1980 and until 1990, only 13 people died in connection with the activities in the North Sea. In the period after 1990, many years passed without a single death. In terms of working hours, the number of accidents is still only a small fraction of what it was in the first few years. Good Norwegian requirements, high competence and the cooperation of the parties mean that the American cowboy culture was replaced with Norwegian – a safety culture at the top of the world. Once again, we have a lot to be proud of. But it's not this history that this interpellation should be primarily about; it's the concerns we see today for the development of the socket and the responsibility of the government to take action when needed, along with the industry and the parties. So far, history has been about getting better, setting new records for better safety and the working environment. Now, for the first time, it's about turning a trend where the arrows go in the wrong direction, where, especially in the last two years, it hasn't been better for years, but worse. As the Petroleum Authority itself has formulated it, ‘Trends shall be reversed’. This interpellation is the result of the many concerned discussions I have had with employees, trust-elected and leaders on the base, who daily see what the development of these statistics means for their work in close proximity. The figures from the Petroleum Control Agency, Ptil, confirm this concern. Report ‘Risk level of Norwegian petroleum activities [[RNP]] It is therefore appropriate that the main theme of Ptil for 2017 is to reverse the trend. A concerned Ptil Director, Anne Myhrvold, justifies their choice of main theme such as: ‘The last two years have been marked by safety challenges and serious situations. We have seen increasing pressure against fundamental parts of the Norwegian security regime. The main theme is to reverse these developments, and we expect concrete results.’ Peter Alexander Hansen, who is the principal protection officer on the Norwegian base in Statoil, also formulated it at a Ptil conference: We see a growing reluctance on the part of our colleagues and operational leaders because they are not being listened to. You should know, he said at the conference, that everyone is ready to contribute, but they feel that top management no longer takes into account good proposals that are being promoted, and that worries them very much. This is also what worries me, that we may have too much of an assessment of what should and should not be done to the companies alone. That is why my challenge today to the Minister of Labour if she is involved in what is the main theme of Ptil for 2017 is to help reverse the trend, because governments have a key role to play in achieving these goals. The tripartite cooperation has three parties where everyone has to be equally active. Once again, the Norwegian Chief Protection Ombudsman in Statoil described it in a good way: we are concerned that the authorities have left too much of the legal space for action to the company's interpretation. We want a supervision that is not afraid to use the tools they have been given in the role of a watchbuck, and that is not afraid to pull the brakes, rather too much than once too little. We must take seriously the developments that have taken place. We are concerned that the current changes and savings will have long-term consequences. The effect of choices we're making now, maybe we'll see first and foremost in a few years' time. We're not willing to wait and see. It seems to me that the tripartite cooperation on the base is under pressure. The numbers also show that the number of notifications is almost double. This is a serious consequence, perhaps, of the fact that one is now unable to use the usual structures, but ends up having to alert. Ptil says that the cost cuts that have been in recent years have also had consequences for security. When I talk to the employees and trustees, most people tell me that they want a kerosene surveillance that is stronger in the grievances, and a Ministry of Labour and a government that is willing to take action. One might want the Petroleum Control to become a little bit more like the Labour Inspectorate, and use the tools you have even more clearly. My challenge to the Minister of Labour today is whether she is willing to join in and take action now in the short term when she sees the developments that have taken place, and join in on what is the main theme of the Petroleum Monitoring Board for 2017, that this trend must be reversed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e238	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic that engages many, and which is also important in the light of the developments we have seen recently. I want to start by saying that there is a high level of health, environmental and safety in Norwegian petroleum activities. At the same time, we must recognise that by nature the petroleum industry has a potential for major accidents. It's only been a decade since 13 people lost their lives in the tragic helicopter crash at Turøy. Tragrein reminded us that safety is fresh. That's why we can't say we're satisfied with today's safety level, or that it's good enough. The government's ambition is that Norwegian petroleum activities will be world leaders in HMS. This ambition is firm, even in times of decline. It is a clear signal to the petroleum industry that, in day-to-day work, it must extend for a long time in order to continuously improve safety. The vision of being a world leader obliges the industry to work with health, environmental and safety prevention and in the long term, and it assumes that the industry does not take a high level of safety for given, but works for an ever-increasing improvement. Norwegian petroleum activities are characterised by changes, changes in performance and in the image of the actor. In order to ensure the sustainable development of Norwegian pedestal, it is necessary to further develop the level of safety, implement efficiency measures and reduce the level of costs. At the same time, no cost-reduction measures which adversely affect the level of safety must be implemented. Petroleum monitoring shall follow up the fact that the industry continues to ensure a high level of safety in the context of efficiency measures. From the labour side, concerns are expressed that cost reduction measures have a negative impact on the safety level of industry. Petroleum monitoring has received an increasing number of concerns messages and experience through supervision, among other things. that the cooperation of the parties is under pressure. The results of the industry’s joint venture Risk level in Norwegian petroleum activities, RNP, showed a long-term positive development in safety levels, but in 2015 there was a weak but systematically negative development of a number of indicators. In 2016, there were highlights, as a positive development in barrier management, technical safety and serious personal injury, but also an increase in severe hydrocarbon leakages and well control events. The overall indicator of major accidents in RNP 2016 is at the same level as in 2015 and remains at a higher level than in 2013 and 2014. In view of these developments, through 2016 the Petroleum Control asked the question of safety now at a crossroads. RNP consists of historical data that give a picture of developments up to now, but not of what will happen in the future. However, peer review points to the need to take the signals seriously and reverse a trend that may have a negative impact on safety levels over time. The Director of the Petroleum Control Authority has expressed concerns about developments in key areas such as hydrocarbon leakages and well control incidents. The supervision has chosen ‘Trends to be reversed’ as its main theme in 2017. In this work, the Petroleum Authority concentrates on a better follow-up of three basic aspects of the Norwegian HMS regime: the cooperation of the Parties, the development and use of industry standards and robust solutions that provide safety margins in the petroleum industry. This is particularly important at a time of uncertainty, change in assumptions and pressure under conditions. And it requires attention, priority and resources, especially from the industry itself, but also from the workers' side and from the governments. The industry itself is responsible for the safety of the petroleum industry. Follow-up by safety authorities is based on accountability and requires transparency, trust and respect between actors. It is therefore necessary to consider the trend to be reversed as a systematic improvement work with the industry itself, which is implementing and with its driving role in the Petroleum Supervision. I'm familiar with the industry, among other things. have ongoing projects on hydrocarbon leakage and well control, and it is good that they are aware of their responsibilities. At the same time, the government believes that developments in the last few years have made it necessary to put the HMS situation in the petroleum industry high on the agenda. The government has therefore started working on a new announcement to Stortinget on this theme, which we aim to present in the winter of 2018. Cooperation and accountability in tripartite cooperation are important carriers in the Norwegian HMS regime. Therefore, in the discussion on the HMS situation and the HMS development, it is important to take into account the views of the parties and authorities on the status, challenges and further improvement. As an important basis for reporting, I have therefore invited stakeholders and authorities to a working group where this important theme is put on the agenda. The working group discusses what lies behind the figures: What is the status? What challenges arise? How is evolution? How can continuous improvement of safety levels be ensured at the same time as efficient and economical operation? The working group shall also discuss the follow-up and arrangements of the authorities in the applicable legislation. This work will provide an important basis for the forthcoming Single European Act and should provide a basis for the industry itself to have a common starting point for the further improvement that needs to be done in the industry. The representative Tvedt Solberg asked what message I had to the employees who felt insecure. To that I will reply that the government is taking safety in Norwegian petroleum activities very seriously, and we have started a thorough review of the matter together with the Petroleum Authority and the industry itself. Continuous safety work and improvement are a high priority, and we expect the industry to do so in constructive cooperation with the workers’ organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e259	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that the Council of State and the Government share my, the Petroleum and Oil Workers' concerns for recent years' development. But I still think we have to make sure that the ambition for security in the world summit is not just a celebration, and I miss in the answer from the Council of State what the government will do now to reverse this, more than just describe the situation as it is. I don't think we should lose sight of why safety is so important. Our most important job as the responsible authorities is that all those who are employed on a Norwegian base can travel home as whole, as safe and as secure as when they went to work. If they can't, the rest of it plays a small role. At a time when it is to be saved and made more efficient, it is easy for security to be reduced. Then it's our job, both at Stortinget and in the government, to turn this around. We have to ask ourselves if the events that you've seen in recent years have a connection with the transition and the efficiency of the industry. The assessment of Petroleum Control is clear. They say, ‘In some cases, developments over the last two years have been characterised by safety challenges and serious situations. The cost cuts seem to be a contributing cause.» I'm going to challenge the Council of State to see this too, agree and be willing to join in the gripping process, because we can't wait for another major accident until we catch up. For example, the Deepwater Horizon accident bill in the Gulf of Mexico has risen to over 50 billion. $400 billion. Norwegian kronor — and the taximeter is still running, as the claims settlements are not yet in port. It's clear it costs with certainty, but the question is, aren't these costs acceptable, as we have managed to maintain such a high level of safety that we have, after all, been able to avoid these costly accidents and disasters? It is this thinking that has made Norwegian pedestal on the top of the world when it comes to safety. I think it is alarming that we now see that the government, the Right Party and the Advance Party, slightly abandon this kind of thinking. We see it when we discuss multi-purpose vessels. At that time, the cost of introducing the labour-environment law for these oil workers is the decisive argument for saying no. It is a debate we are going to take tomorrow, but it shows a dangerous political development that is new on Norwegian soil: that the price of safety for oil workers is too high for some. When the Council of State agrees that the cooperation of the parties is under pressure, I believe it must be taken into account now. A big message is good, but this is to be delivered to Stortinget, perhaps only in 2018, with effect perhaps only from 2019. It means two new lost years before one manages to do something. There are many suggestions on the table about grip that you can now take to reverse this trend, so I will again challenge the Council of States: will she do something more than provide a big message? Is one willing to join in and grab hold of the government now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e281	I fully agree with the representative that the ambition for Norway to be the world leader in health, environment and safety must be something more than just words in a party speech. It commits us a lot to have the high ambition. My clear message to the industry has always been that you never have to let the cost cut go beyond safety. You can never compromise with certainty. We need to be absolutely sure that those we're sending out on the platform will also come home healthy again. The representative Tvedt Solberg seems to be premising that any krone saved is a potential security risk. I think that's wrong – both claim and conclusion. It is fully possible to cut costs without affecting safety, but the industry itself must make proper assessments and ensure that it does not compromise safety. We're not sitting there waiting for the big shot to arrive in 2018. On the contrary, this is a continuous work we are working on. We have strengthened the budget of Petroleum Control during this period. Other budgetary measures may be returned during the budgetary round until the harvest. We have close dialogue with the Petroleum Control Agency on frameworks – not only the financial ones, but also others they work under. There may be permits, regulations and other framework conditions under which they need to work to strengthen safety. Even I've had a meeting with the industry. The challenge is that there is a great deal of disagreement between the employee and the employer on what status is. What is the sense of reality is very different on the base, and it's a challenge. It is also the background that I have now set up a working group with the parties to see if one can come to a common understanding of what is a challenge. What is the issue of safety, and what is the question of pay and tariffs? The expert committee that I gave in my main post, is now also working to look at different framework conditions, and other. This will give Stortinget the opportunity to discuss in 2018. But we have an ongoing dialogue with the Petroleum Control Agency, just to see if there is something that needs to be done with legislation, jurisdictions and other to improve supervision and to ensure increased security. This is important. We need to be absolutely sure that those who work in our most important industry and who work in a sector that is by its very nature exposed to safety should also feel secure that when they leave, they should also come back safely.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e294	I would like to thank the representative for raising an important topic for debate – the safety of the socket. The situation is alarming. We see that it has been necessary to save large sums in a very short period of time, and in that savings, trustees have made reports other than what the Council of State says today, both in terms of assessments of the purchase of equipment and in terms of the treatment of people. Insecurity in the workplace is inherently harmful because it can bring with it a culture of fear, because the fear of losing a job is great. A safe working life with proper protection and with serious conditions is the best starting point for professionalism, for trust, for security, to dare to report if something is not. There is considerable disagreement between batches as to the adequacy of this security. It is also part of the basis for the proposal that multi-purpose craft workers must be covered and protected by the Labour Environment Act. But we're going to discuss that in detail on another occasion. SV wants a different rate of oil extraction. We want protection of vulnerable areas, of the edge of the ice, and we also want a guided transition where industrial competence is preserved and preserved, because it is absolutely necessary to succeed in a green shift. The green shift is red. It depends on active action, on a guided political transition. There is a big difference between a steered transition and the current situation, when uncertainty and decline are left to the market alone with the consequences it has for the people concerned. Despite disagreements about the direction of petroleum policy, one thing is certain, and that is that SV is indispensable in the demand for industry to be based on the safety of workers and a good preparedness. It is a political responsibility, and it is a task which requires cooperation between the parties, which requires feedback from the trustees to be received. A little while ago, I met someone I know on a trip. He had been out on the pedestal where he works, and he told me that now was the second time he had been working with people who had been told that they had lost their job, either right before they went out or while they were there. It is clear that it marked the working environment. It's hard to comfort a workmate and at the same time know that it can be you next time. But, he says during our conversation, they come back, because very many of those who have lost the job, come back as hired labour, according to him. Then it is necessary to ask the Council of State how she assesses that development and what it has to say for the safety of the socket. Security is a national ambition. It is laid down in law and in HMS work. But security is also security. It's about having a job security, a regular job, and being willing to tell you when you see that something is not the way it should be, without being afraid that you won't get back to work. Therefore, safe working conditions are fundamental to the security we need on the base, because security is about taking the workers who create the values seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e309	I would also like to thank the interpellant for the discussion. At the same time, it is impossible to discuss the interpellation without also seeing it in the context of what will be the discussion tomorrow on the proposal that lies there. Safety/cost dilemmas – between job safety and the environment and the costs incurred in relation to international competition are reported. It was a cost increase for the oil sector before the oil price fall that was dramatic. The reason was that the authorities stimulated an oil activity that was far beyond what it was capable of. So it gave an extra cost. It is a theme on which the red-green government should take on maritime criticism, because it was, through its scale, co-responsible for the considerable cost growth, which led to a very difficult situation when oil prices fell. The Council of State said that Norway should lead the world in terms of safety in the oil and gas sectors, both in terms of prevention and in terms of the long-term, and that safety was the responsibility of the industry. Yes, every nutritionist is responsible for the safety of the legislation in force. The principal actor here is the Petroleum Control Agency, which is responsible for ensuring that laws and regulations are adopted. There is a demanding discussion and borderline between what is petroleum-related work and what is not. One comes in on types of activities, one comes in on devices, one comes in on ships, one comes in on technological conditions that are far beyond my knowledge base, but I understand that it is very complicated and demanding to set dividing lines, because the technology changes so quickly. And it's good that technology is changing, so that we can get productivity growth and a cheaper harvest of our huge oil resources. It is a political decision which legislation should apply, and it is the Petroleum Authority that implements the will of the Storting, and the Petroleum Authority, in consultation with the Committee, has been concerned with clean and secure matters, and we very much appreciate that. What is really at the heart of this interpellation is the proposal tomorrow, namely the issue of working environment law to be addressed to petroleum-related activities on Norwegian soil. It was five representatives from the Workers' Party, two from the Centre Party and two from SV – the representative Bergstø and SV's parliamentary leader and party leader Lysbakken – who promoted the proposal. What is particularly important in the Committee's position, which we will be discussing tomorrow, is that the majority of the Committee – Right, Advance Party and Left – listened to Norwegian Industry and Norwegian Oil and Gas, and not to the clear wishes and opinions, and the well-explained opinions that came from Industry Energy and the Norwegian Maritime Association. It was quite strong to see how, to put it that way, business organisations on the employers' side were involved, that the implementation of the proposal would incur costs in the Norwegian oil and gas sector of the order of 50 to 100 billion. kr. I have to say that there was a scare propaganda that came out there, and it stands in a very strong contrast to what the same companies say about the trademark of the Norwegian oil and gas sector in terms of safety. But the remarkable situation we have now been faced with is that when one then presents the position to the Committee tomorrow, we learn that the Central Party stands alone on the proposal that the nine representatives stand for. It is quite special that the Workers' Party and SV do not follow up on the position contained in the proposal, but listen to the consultation recordings from Norwegian Industry and Norwegian Oil and Gas. For the centre party, it is perfectly obvious that it is the security that will come first. This applies on the equipment side and not least on the crew side. Regardless of the companies in which the staff and the professionals are employed, whatever their nationality, they must be subject to Norwegian law when they come under the activities specified in the proposal and comment further in the letters of the Council of State. Therefore, it is important to have a discussion on this topic and the scope of the employment environment law in the future, because when one gets all these businesses into it, a few parties will be involved, one gets tripartite cooperation, and the employment environment law covers all parties regardless of who it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e326	I would also like to thank the interpellant for bringing up a very important topic. Security is incredibly important, and security shall be high on the agenda of the Norwegian base. We have serious events in memory that must not happen again. The government's ambition is that Norwegian petroleum activities are world leaders in health, environment and safety. It is alarming that the Petroleum Supervision Authority has expressed concern about a trend towards negative developments in the level of risk, but I am pleased that the Petroleum Supervision Authority is now due in 2017 to pay a great deal of attention to this, to the fundamental safety of Norwegian Sockets, and that the trend you see should be reversed. Particular attention shall be paid to these three areas of HMS work: it is party cooperation, which is incredibly important; it is the development and use of industry standards and robust solutions that provide safety margins in the petroleum industry. This is particularly important at a time of uncertainty, changing assumptions and pressure on conditions, and it requires both attention, resources and much from industry itself, from employee organisations and not least from governments. As the Council of State said in its statement: ‘The Government’s ambition is that Norwegian petroleum activities will be world leaders in HMS.’ Although the industry is undergoing a difficult transition, this industry must comply with the regulatory requirement that safety be constantly improved. In 2017, the government decided to increase its oversight of 14 million. kr. The government has set up an externally managed working group of business partners to assess the development of the industry’s HMS status. This work shall serve as the basis for a communication to the European Parliament on the health, environment and safety of petroleum activities. Let there be no doubt: the government takes safety on a Norwegian pedestal in the highest seriousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e337	First of all, I would like to thank those who took part in the debate. There is a busy time at Stortinget, but I had hoped that several parties thought this theme was so important that they would participate. In his speech, the Council of State challenged my premise for the whole debate. Of course, it is possible to cut costs without jeopardising safety. I think everyone in this room is completely in agreement about that, but the situation now is a completely different one. When the Petroleum Authority, the authorities and the Council of State body, so clearly say that the cost cuts are at the expense of security, I believe that it is the responsibility of the Council of State to take action, to take action now, more than with a down-to-earth notification in two to three years. I must admit that I am not reassured when I hear the response of the Council of State. When the message from supervision, from those who work in the industry, is so serious, I find it a pity that the answer from the government, from the Right and the Advance Party, is so reprehensible. Here's a lot of description of the situation, a lot of talk. I believe one should have come to the table with more action. Only the fact that the Council of State says that tripartite cooperation is weakened should, of course, be due to a greater concern, a concern that one must face with clear grip immediately, in order to ensure that the tripartite cooperation that has been the support is still there. I can promise that we from the Workers' Party will continue to lift this case, demand that there be more action now, that we take seriously the concern and insecurity experienced by those who work on the base, and continue to challenge the government that one cannot wait with action, but do so now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e348	Just a few comments. It is important to clarify to the representative Lundtigen that all installations with well control are covered by the Working Environment Act, including diving operations and rafts. We're going to discuss this more tomorrow, but it's not a legitimate room, as you could get the impression of. To the representative of Bergstø, who was in charge of redundancies in the oil and gas sector and renting: for a sector that has now experienced the disappearance of 50 000 jobs since 2014, it is staggering, and it is obvious that there is considerable uncertainty and disquiet among employees that so many have lost their jobs in such a short time. My position here, as for other industries, is that fixed employment should be the general rule. It is clear that here, too, the security aspect will be part of the discussion. But this government still wants oil and gas extraction and also grants concessions for it. There is reason to believe that the extraction rate will rise, and that more people will be able to get the job back, even though the oil and gas industry itself says that many of those who have lost the job cannot count on getting it back because you have to deal with less expenses. But we also believe that the industry should be the world leader in HMS. It's our ambition to be the world leader in HMS, but also the world leader in technology development. This is also related. Norway has a great competitive advantage here, I believe, precisely because we are so in front. But finally, and as I said before, my signal to the industry is that we must be world leaders, we must not compromise on security. If there is doubt as to whether a cost cut may pose a safety risk, it should not be implemented. I have said that in several meetings and on several occasions to the industry itself, and I will stand firm on that. We cannot compromise on that. Once again, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for putting this topic on the agenda in this Chamber. I myself am very concerned about it, and that is also the background for us having just set up both an expert committee and a working group with the parties, given that we can discuss this even wider in Stortinget during 2018. This is an important theme and a major and important industry, and it also deserves a lot of attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e361	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e379	It doesn't seem like the Council of State has arrived, so we have to take a little break. After a small delay, expressed Then the Council of State is in place, and we can go further in case no. 3rd@item: inlistbox The President will first draw attention to the fact that government councils are also obliged to attend when a case is being dealt with in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e392	In Report. St. 19 for 2014–2015, Public Health Communication – Mestring and opportunities, the government states that missing maintenance of schools and kindergartens is a public health problem. The message indicates that children and young people have the right to a good working environment. Since there is an educational obligation in Norway and the vast majority of children go to kindergarten, authorities have a special responsibility to ensure a good physical and psychosocial environment in kindergartens and schools. We know from several nationwide studies that a significant number of schools and kindergartens do not have the approval required by the environmental legislation on health protection. The environment at many schools doesn't satisfy what all the elephants have a legal right to. In general, there is also very little supervision at the schools. According to a survey carried out by the Directorate of Health and Education in 2015, more than 230,000 elephants went to non-approved schools. It should be a matter of self-order that no children should get sick of going to school or kindergarten, but we know that it happens. Bad indoor climates can lead to a range of health disorders, such as headaches, fatigue and concentration problems. It can result in a reduced level of well-being, e.g. due to high temperature, plenty of dust due to a lack of purity, odours and heavy air with high CO 2 content. A correlation has been established between regular maintenance in houses with high humidity, moisture damage or mould and increased occurrence of airway plagues such as asthma, allergy and respiratory tract infections. Today, people are about 90 pst. of time indoors. Children and young people are particularly vulnerable and are affected in the indoor environment. Asthma and allergy are currently very widespread. Asthma is the most common cause of chronic illness among children in Norway. Studies show that 10-20 pst. of all the teenagers have or have had asthma. Public health and environmental legislation in kindergartens and schools require the planning, construction, organisation and operation of kindergartens and schools to meet the requirements of the physical and psychosocial working environment. All kindergartens and schools shall be approved and, in order to obtain approval, the requirements of this Regulation shall be fulfilled. The training law Chapter 9a gives students in the elementary school and further education the right to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning. The Training Act § 9a-2 requires the physical environment to comply with the professional standards recommended by the professional authorities at all times. They contain the same qualitative requirements for the physical environment as those for environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools. The Working Environment Act regulates the working environment of those added. In the Public Health Report, the government announces that one would ‘performing and updating the legislation on the physical and psychosocial environment in kindergartens and schools. The aim of the review shall be to establish a comprehensive regulatory framework which clarifies responsibilities and requirements for the working environment of children, guarantees the rights of children and coordinates supervisory arrangements.’;» Today I see that the Stortinget should deal with a proposal from the government that proposes extensive changes to the training law rules on the school environment, cf. the recommendations of the Djupedal Selection in NOU 2015:2. But the changes only apply to the psychosocial environment. The government writes in the proposition that during the legal work they have not undergone the requirements of the physical school environment, ‘and there are no proposed changes to these requirements now’. It's incomprehensible. It is only shown that the rules on the physical school environment will be reviewed as a follow-up to the public health notification. But it's already been three years, and when will this come? When the government simultaneously cuts out the interest compensation scheme for school buildings and swimming facilities, which aims to help municipalities and county councils raise interest-free loans for rehabilitation and new construction of schools and swimming facilities, there is reason to ask whether the government takes seriously the physical school environment for the children. From the 2017 government budget, the government has decided to phase out the interest compensation scheme for school buildings and swimming facilities. In Bergen, the winding-up of the scheme of interest-free loans will lead to the postponement of the rehabilitation of swimming facilities in worn-out schools in Bergen. Here the government deliberately prioritises tax cuts rather than the welfare of children and young people. It removes the ability of a municipality to apply for the coverage of interest costs. ‘If we lose this opportunity, we have to consider reducing the rate at which the school buildings are refurbished,’ said Pál Hafstad Thorsen to the Official Journal of Bergen on 27 January. He continues: "For us, this is very serious. Interest expense is a heavy burden and it means less money for refurbishment and maintenance.»? As we know, the fall in school in Bergen is very extensive. For the last ten years, the municipality has covered 200 million. NOK in interest expenses. So after 2018 there is no more money to get, and there are enough municipalities in a similar situation. It is clear that systematic poor maintenance over time has created the school drop in Bergen, also in other municipalities, and the solution is – quite rightly – to prioritise continuous maintenance. But when we have a backlog, for whatever reason, and when it goes beyond the students' health, why should we take away the interest compensation scheme that works, without one coming in with a corresponding system? The government has used as an argument that it is important that the government does not support different schemes that pay municipalities that do not run a regular maintenance. But this is a thin argument. Is it a problem for the government that more children and young people with this interest-rate compensation scheme are experiencing indoor-climate-approved schooling experience having their statutory right to a health-promoting physical school environment? How long must we wait for the government to review and update the legislation for children and young people's working environment in kindergarten and school, as announced in the public health report? Does government take students seriously their physical school environment? Will we get better supervisory arrangements? In the municipality of Bergen, it was not the supervisory authority of the students who closed schools – it was the Labour Inspectorate who closed schools because the working environment of the teachers was unsafe. So my question to the government council is, in this situation, when we still have up to 230,000 elephants going to schools that are not indoor climate-approved, which is a threat to their health and development, why are we taking away the interest compensation scheme? What will the government do to ensure the physical school environment for all the elephants and all those who go to kindergarten, and how will you follow up the public health message? There is also a question of what the government sees for itself will happen with access to swimming facilities. There are new demands on the skills of elephants when it comes to swimming, but it is true that access to swimming facilities – many bad maintenance swimming facilities – will also suffer when the interest compensation scheme is fully phased out from 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e430	Let me first regret that I was late. It's not going to happen. There is no disagreement that it is important that we have good conditions in the physical working environment for students throughout Norway. Nor is there any disagreement about, as I see it, that the municipalities and county councils as school owners are responsible for the rehabilitation, maintenance and construction of school buildings. Like the representative Toppe, I am concerned that they take that responsibility. Children should not suffer health problems because school buildings are not in good enough condition. Since 2012, the State has committed itself to providing grants for interest costs related to school and swimming facilities within an investment framework of a total of nearly 30 billion. kr. This government, through its draft budget, has given priority to the phase-in of the 4 billion. NOK that remained in the current scheme when we took over. In the 2017 state budget, 223 million have been allocated. kr to the scheme, and we are committed to paying grants for interest compensation for school and swimming facilities 20 years in advance. Just so there is no misunderstanding about it: it is not that when this scheme expires, the flow of money stops – rather on the contrary. The State has committed itself 20 years in advance, which will continue to be paid in excess of the State budgets. Then it's true that the government has not now given priority to establishing a new interest compensation scheme. The State undertakes to provide interest compensation for investments in school and swimming facilities, and this implies a long-term commitment to the State budget. Expenditure over each financial year may not necessarily be as high as current interest rates, but expenditure requirements may be high over time. I'm not saying that because it's an argument in itself against the arrangement, rather the contrary, we've maintained the arrangement during this period, but it says something about us having to take account of the long-term costs and weigh them up against the likely gains before we might decide to prioritize a new interest compensation scheme. And I think it's worth discussing the question of whether a new interest-rate compensation scheme is the most accurate government agency to contribute to investing in and rehabilitating school buildings. In the current interest compensation scheme there were 87 municipalities and one county municipality that had not used up their share of the investment framework at the end of 2016. They had then had eight years to apply for funds. This may indicate that the scheme is not central to decisions on investment in school buildings in many municipalities. At the same time, there is a good basis for saying that the municipalities have not given sufficient priority to ongoing maintenance, which has provided a significant maintenance set-up. This also applies to all municipal buildings and not only to school buildings, but also to school buildings. At the same time, we see that municipalities have a historically record level of investment, and that raises the question of non-governmental measures should therefore be directed towards helping municipalities to prioritise maintenance as an operational task. In this respect, I would like to stress that the key prerequisites for good quality school construction are a balanced local economy and adequate local priority for property management. The government, together with our cooperation parties, has prioritised a strong local economy. The municipalities had an average annual real growth in free revenues of 2.4 pst. from 2013 to 2016. In comparison, there was an average growth of 1.8 pst between 2005 and 2013. If the growth in free income is measured per capita, the average growth was 1.3 pst. in the period from 2013 to 2016, against 0,6 pst. for the period 2005 to 2013. The financial result for the local government sector in 2016 was the best since 2006, with a net operating surplus of 4,2 pst. Together with a continuing high income level in 2017, these municipalities provide a good economic foundation for prioritising the maintenance of buildings, including school buildings. There are different requirements for buildings and structures used by municipalities and county councils as schools, and the second paragraph of Section 9a of the Training Act lays down requirements for the physical school environment. In the regulation on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools, which complements the Training Act, it includes: the requirements for a satisfactory indoor climate. However, as the representative refers to, previous surveys of the approval status of schools and the supervisory practices of municipalities under the legislation on environmental health protection have shown that for many schools not approved under the regulation. Although I believe that the main state contribution to providing good school construction is a good community economy, it should also be assessed whether the State can do more. When we make these assessments, we need to focus on which measures, both budgetary and regulatory changes, are the most effective. I would like to stress that the rule on the physical school environment will be reviewed as a follow-up to the Report. St. 19 for 2014-2015, Public Health Communication – Mestring and opportunities, and in this context also the need for more accurate enforcement mechanisms, such as access to justice, supervision and administrative penalties, is assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e451	When it comes to what we learned from the Health Directorate's investigations, that in 2015 there were 230,000 elephants who went to schools or kindergartens who did not satisfy the requirements for the approved indoor environment, I believe that if we had replaced the word 'elevar' with 'additional' or 'worker' in that statistics, it would have been quite different to what this case is getting today. It is almost 20 years since the regulations on environmental law were to be implemented in the municipalities, in 1998, and we are still in a situation where, in my view, it is debatable that so many elephants go to schools that could be a danger to their health. Many may still argue against having an interest-rate compensation scheme. It binds the state budget for a long time, and really the municipalities should take the grip on themselves. But this is, in the municipalities that it is, a maintenance allowance that has worked up over many years, and more people have to share that debt. Still, there's one point that I think we could be some about, is that this can no longer go out on children and young people. I have had kids even in the Bergen School, which has gone for ten years in the base school, in schools where the indoor climate is not approved – and many with them. When it comes to a document, or a proposition, here from the minister of knowledge who takes a look at the psychosocial environment, but without the physical environment, a fool can wonder if it is because it costs money, that one has not taken everything into account, that one looks at the paragraph, but divides it: here we come with a review, new rules, demands, and corrects when it comes to the psychosocial environment, but does nothing to improve their students' right to a physical environment that is in line with the regulations. I had expected the Minister of Knowledge to have had a better cooperation with the Minister of Health in this matter, and that one had delivered a collective case, as announced in the Public Health Notice. I had also expected one from the government to take the maintenance allowance out in the municipalities in greater seriousness, and that, if one were not to pass on this interest compensation scheme, there would be measures to help those municipalities that have major challenges to be able to rectify the situation, even with clearer supervisory arrangements and clearer sanctions if it was not followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e462	As I said, it is not that I am a fundamental opponent of the fact that the state should also have instruments in this area. As I said in my post, we work with the Ministry of Health to follow up on what was announced in the Public Health Notice. It is not that the government excludes or says that it is not relevant that there should be other types of state instruments. My point is simply that after we have had the current interest compensation scheme since 2002, it is not obvious to me – to put it that way – that it is able to meet the needs of the municipalities. So of course this is a discussion that belongs here in the main hall, but it's worth stressing that it also belongs out there. I represent a party which is Norway's third largest rapporteur party. The inter-pellant represents a party which is Norway's second largest rapporteur party. We are the ones with power out in the municipality of Norway. It's not people we don't know or have no contact with, it's our party traps – it's the party traps of the Toppe representative who rules. Now I don't remember the number of local authorities in the Central Party, but it's clear that this is also a municipal responsibility. In addition, when, during this ageing period, municipalities have received a good municipal economy, it has been given the opportunity not to remove any priority — because it is not possible — but to give priority to maintenance, for example, it is important that they also do so. The experience of many municipalities also shows that this is something the municipal politicians do, and then it is probably not the interest compensation scheme that makes them do it. For example, in Bergen, one of the great efforts of the previous city council – which I believe today’s city council has maintained – was the maintenance of school buildings. In this municipality we are now in, because of old school buildings, but also because of student growth, it has been heavily invested in both the construction of new school buildings and the rehabilitation of old people. It must also be included in the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e469	It's an important topic for Toppe to address here. Both the KS, the Student Organisation, the Parent Committee for Primary Education and others have for a long time focused heavily on the poor indoor climate in schools and the major challenges they pose for students. The Health Directorate stated in August 2015 that they assumed that about 230,000 Norwegian children do not attend indoor air-conditioned schools. This leads to a number of health disorders, such as headaches, fatigue and difficulty in concentration. Unfortunately, it is a fact that two thirds of the municipal building mass appears to be partially unsatisfactory or poor. The maintenance situation in Norway is enormous, and this has considerable negative consequences. The report of the State of the Nation of the Consultative Engineers' Association, RIFF, shows a total maintenance run of a staggering 2600 billion. kr. The need for investment is formidable. Here I quote Director Liv Kari Skudal Hansteen in RIF from an interview in VG: ‘We believe that priority should be given to those areas where both functionality and future protection are threatened in order not to increase maturity. This applies to both county roads, railways and sewer pipes. However, water supply facilities, schools, hospitals and municipal roads are also at risk and must be prioritised». We as politicians need to be far better at prioritising maintenance. This applies to both politicians at Stortinget and politicians in counties and municipalities. Schools must and must be given priority. The quality shall be in the high-seat. This must also apply to school buildings, sports halls and swimming pools. Poor construction with poor indoor climates makes the working situation of teachers and students unsustainable, and learning resources are not exploited. Bad indoor climate yields poor learning outcomes. The Training Act § 9a-1 establishes: ‘All pupils in primary and secondary schools are entitled to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning.’ Unfortunately, we have to note that this law is being overly broken. There is sufficient evidence that school owners in general have not been able to maintain a satisfactory standard in school buildings. The indoor climate for children is simply not well cared for by Norwegian municipalities. The Progress Party will point out that it is now working to establish a kind of work environment law for children. The reason is the large number of school students who are unable to meet the requirements of a satisfactory indoor climate. The government is working on reviewing and updating the law on kindergartens and schools. Here, we need to put in place a stricter regulation that strengthens the rights of children much more. But we also need to ensure that the rules are complied with. Municipalities need to focus on their core tasks, we need to prioritise maintenance rather than much else, and we need to think new and offensively about investment. The Progress Party believes that our country has a room for action that few other countries have seen fit to do, and the Progress Party has all year long considered that parts of the oil fund should be used for investment in Norway and ensure that we have good hospitals, hospitals, schools and infrastructure for future generations. We in the Progress Party believe that more attention should be paid to socially profitable investments. I would also like to show that municipalities have improved their economic space for several years, and priority should also be given to schooling. But to achieve this, politicians at all levels need to focus on core tasks and to give priority to them. We must not save ourselves to find either. Spending money on improving the indoor climate of schools is wise and long-term money use, and our children and future generations deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e496	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important matter. As the representative Toppe said, all children have the right to a good working environment, but as we see, this is not taken seriously enough today – unfortunately. We can facilitate learning with good teachers, good textbooks – being as good in education as it is. But if the students don't have a good physical and psychosocial work environment, it'll help a little. We know that a prerequisite for learning is that the kids are saturated, that they are healthy, that they get enough sleep – to get full benefit from what you're going to learn at school. If adult workers do not have a good enough environment and indoor climate, the workplace may be closed. The admission of workers to such jobs is simply prohibited. As the representative Toppe said, schools have been closed because of the working environment of teachers. It is a cross of thought when the Labour Inspectorate uses the teachers as an argument – it is far enough, but it should perhaps be the children. But it says so. The Council of State is concerned with the same matter, that the kids should have a good environment, and that's good. So the Council of State says that priority has been given to a strong local economy. This can be discussed, I am not quite sure if all the rapporteurs in this country experience it that way. The Council of State is right in saying that it is the counties and the municipalities that have the primary responsibility for the school buildings, but this is where the state must also contribute – which we have all been involved in. It is good to hear that there are good grants, but for some, at least the interest compensation scheme has worked well. It might have been good to have the new arrangements that the Council of State is talking about, in place before removing the interest compensation scheme. I hear that the Progress Party is also concerned about the matter, and they are going to use the oil fund to clean up school buildings. They have to, because to the extent that they want to provide tax credits, there is enough oil fund to go on. I'm not going to go all that way, but we know very well what economists and the rest of us believe that it's the oil fund you eat, and can't use taxes as an instrument for the community. No one's gonna get sick of going to school. If you're going to succeed in a good school in the future, you're going to have to take this much, much more seriously than what you're doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e513	Thanks to the interpellant for addressing an important topic. It is important that we provide good education for our children, and school construction is clearly part of what must be in place as conditions for good learning. It's obvious, when you look at the statistics, that maintenance isn't always the highest priority when you put the budgets, and I've been told that maybe we should have more string clips for maintenance projects too, not just for new school buildings, and you could think about that. But the question is also where the responsibility lies, and as the council pointed out, it is with the municipalities. A good number of centre party rapporteurs should think about the responsibilities they actually assume when they leave the maintenance of school buildings to be a priority. I want to share with you a personal experience from my time as a financial bureau in the municipality of Oslo. There, we worked very systematically with investments and had strategies for how to make sure that we also spent money on management, operation and maintenance. It is important that municipalities get good processes for how they plan when building new school buildings and make sure that they have spent resources on ongoing management, operation and maintenance, so that they do not suddenly get into the situation that no buildings have been kept in the same condition. Obviously, the government has prioritised a strong local economy. The municipalities have received an average annual real growth in free revenues of 2.4 pst. from 2013 to 2016 and now has, obviously, much better opportunity to use funds for school construction and maintenance. One of the tools we used in Oslo to do something about it was to use new methods of public–private cooperation. Then one gets to new forms of construction and new forms of operation and maintenance. But it's the Center Party and the Socialists strong opponents of it. The last thing I want to say is that it is important to have larger and stronger municipalities with larger and stronger professional environments, which also have better opportunities to make good investments and ensure good management, operation and maintenance of school buildings in the future. This is also why local reform is important: to provide better school buildings for our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e524	Thank you to those who took part in the debate. Finally, when it comes to having larger and stronger municipalities, the municipality of Bergen is definitely both a large and a strong municipality. But it was in that municipality that a dedicated Focus program was created about the terrible school drop, and that municipality has been run by both the Right Party and the Workers' Party. I have a seat in Bergen City Council, and this was a matter that engaged me strongly. I agreed that at least we got a plan for how we could deal with the big maintenance life – a very important thing. What is positive about the debate is that at least the Council of States does not reject the need for governmental arrangements, that he is not in principle opposed to the fact that there should be an interest-rate compensation scheme. Of course, I agree that this is the responsibility of the municipalities. Nobody says anything else. This is the responsibility of the spokesman, regardless of the kind of party. But that doesn't mean we're going to take away arrangements that have worked, from the state's side, that have helped the spokesmen who really want to get rid of the maintenance system - a system that has worked, which is being removed without discussing whether there should be any alternative. That's what this interpolation is going on. It is not just about school buildings, it is also about swimming facilities, which no one has mentioned specifically in the debate. It is also special that when the Storting first commits itself to improving the working environment for children and young people, and when the government then delivers a case, one eliminates the physical environment, but comes up with measures for the psychosocial. It's all right, but it's weird that you haven't followed up on the public health report, and it doesn't look like it's going to come in this big time period either. I have noticed that representatives from both the Right and the Progress Party have stood up and said that the government will now bring with it a separate work environment law for children. But there's something that we haven't seen anymore. 230,000 children go to schools that are not indoor climate-approved, which will probably mean about four years of age, and that's not insignificant. It is help for the extra effort in the municipalities that I still think the state has to take joint responsibility for and provide good arrangements for. I hope that there can be an agreement on the Storting to continue with an interest compensation scheme in this area or on a corresponding scheme that can contribute to the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e537	I would like to say thank you to the representative Toppe for the interpellation, and I would like to end by stressing – as I have also said earlier – that in terms of regulation and the legal nature, this is something that the government is working on, as announced in the Public Health Communication. It is also the case today that the State has the opportunity to oversee the requirements of Section 9a, and students, parents and user bodies at school may also ask for measures aimed at the physical school environment. So even though – as I said in my post – one of the things the government is working on is looking at enforcement, complaints, etc. is going to get better, so the law is quite strict on this today. But what is a problem – and I think it is a problem across the country, in large and small municipalities, and perhaps even across political constellations – is that maintenance is less attractive than new buildings. It's often the way that even, sloppy everyday maintenance becomes a priority, and that makes us in a situation like this. The situation of our swimming pools a few years ago: all over the country, we were suddenly in a situation — or suddenly, it had long been warned by those who had followed it — how many swimming facilities could no longer be used. So it's also an important reminder to all politicians in our parties that although it doesn't create headlines in the newspapers every single fiscal year, day-to-day maintenance is absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e549	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e565	This matter concerns three changes to the Training Act, and it is an overall committee which supports the proposed amendments. The first concerns the start-up of primary education for children coming to Norway. Today this court begins from the first day after arrival in the country. This has proved to be difficult to achieve in practice, especially when there are many who come at the same time. It's very important for kids that they get the opportunity to get together with other kids and learn together as soon as possible when they get to the country. It is therefore clear that training should be started as soon as possible after arrival, which means that the municipality should start training on a non-powerful basis to offer a fully-fledged offer from day one. As stated in the proposal, one must then start with the parts of the training for which it is capacity and provide a full training offer within one month at the latest. The second amendment is to grant the right to secondary education in Norway to those coming from another country but who are not admitted to Norway. Unfortunately, today’s legislation means closed doors because they do not have the right to recognise the previous education from their home country and also have no right to receive Norwegian secondary education since they have already completed their education at this level. The proposal will be very important for the individual, and it could mean that opportunities are increasing both in order to take on higher education and in order to participate in the labour market, which is very important to become an integral part of our society. The third and last amendment of the proposal is to extend youth law to ensure a coherent transition to adult law. Today, the right to secondary education is defined in such a way that some will have to wait four years to complete secondary education. The whole committee thinks this is a good proposal. The despair of this proposal is that it will not come until now. The government and the support parties have ensured that two years' coal has missed this tremendous opportunity to complete their training course, because they could not vote for the proposal of the Centre Party two years ago. It is now almost three years since the Central Party proposed to make this change by removing the word ‘coherent’ in the Training Act, so that students are not forced to take out their ‘coherently in three years’, as it said. The Centerpartiet proposal promoted in the Stortinget in 2014, was a gift package for the government that time. We indicated that Uppland County Municipality had already removed the requirement that the training should be continuous, and at the time Uppland County municipality had over 50 more high school students who were in the process of completing high school rather than being in line with Nav. But when we proposed this, it was obviously only the Center Party and the SV who understood the significance of the proposal and voted for it. There was also a vote on an alternative to an investigation at the time. This voted against the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, probably because this investigation was to be in the big news of alienation. It's incomprehensible to me that the government and the majority of the population chose to let several thousand young people stand in this alienation, which they really wanted them out of, and risk never coming back to school. I can't help thinking that since the proposal came from the Center Party, the government was most well served to wait until the sea could reap praise for a good proposal. On behalf of many hundreds of young adults who in these years could have benefited from moving on in life, I'm sorry. I think it's embarrassing, and I think it's hair-removing. So to all parties that present themselves as school parties: listen also to other than your sails. Put the young and the young ahead, and make sure that it is the young and not their own party to be winners.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e578	First of all, it's very good to get half an hour to talk to, and then you have time to say a lot. Secondly, it is very good that there is great support for all these three proposals. One of the proposals, which have received less attention, and which relates to an injustice that has been in our system for a long time, is the right to secondary education for those with such training from abroad. Today, the system is, very simply, explained, so that many who have received higher education abroad do not receive that training approved in Norway. This in itself is not unfair, because we need to have the same requirements for everyone, regardless of where they have been trained, but this leads to that group of Norwegians not getting the same right as other adults to complete their secondary education. In other words, there are some people who have ended up in a double argument. They may accept their training from their home country but not as a basis for admission to higher education, nor do they have the right to receive further secondary education. It's an obvious obstacle to good inclusion. That's why we have to do something about it. In the case of direct transition to the right to secondary education, the distinction between youth and adult education is inappropriate, to put it mildly. A youth such as fell from the age of 17 and wanting to resume and complete secondary education when he or she is 21 years old, today’s legislation has to wait three to four years for a new right to training. It also affects students who change the direction of study late in the course of education, and who are thus at risk of having spent their training time. It's important that those who drop out of high school get a chance to start again when they get motivated, to help them get back to work and activity. Now you get a continuous right to graduate from higher education. The latter concerns the rules for starting primary education for children coming to Norway. It is simply that it does not help to have legislation that is ambitious, if it cannot be followed in practice. The regulatory framework we propose is becoming clearer and clearer, and thus also easier to comply with in practice. Since there is a great deal of agreement on this, I am not going to start the big polemics, but I have to comment on two things in the representative Tingelstad Wøien said. One is that it is a paradox that we are now calling for and believing that it is too late, all the time this legislation existed before 2013. Nothing came in 2013. In other words, it was at least eight years when you had the opportunity to do something about it. Secondly, it's important to remember that it's not that when you put something forward for the Biggest and it's adopted, it's the law the next day. The exact same processes for consultation, legal work, etc. must also be carried out at that time. I totally share the frustration sometimes that our processes may be somewhat slow, but it is, after all, better to have a system that facilitates good law-making and good consultation rounds than not having it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e595	I'm not going to pull out this debate, which is really very short, and where everyone agrees, but I think it's doubtful, what the council says that the legislation was there. Yes, it was there, and then someone discovered that they could do it in the way that they could remove the word "coherent" and so made sure that more people could start school again or start to say the lesson instead of going on the Nav. I find it frustrating that when we presented that proposal, it was not willing to do so, because there was clearly a tactic in it that it should be included in a big message. I also understand that there is a legal work to be done, but we would have been two years ahead of us when it comes to making the right laws, if the Stortinge had chosen to implement the proposal for a decision that the Central Party made at the time. Otherwise, thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e602	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 5 and 6 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e631	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e640	As rapporteur for Prop. 57 L for 2016-2017 I would like to thank the Committee for a good job and too much involvement in the matter. Our students have the right to a safe and good school environment. Nevertheless, we know that many children go to school and grunt every day. It does something to a small human being. For parents, it is heartwarming to know that your child is being bullied. As school politicians, we need to do our best to create a good framework and a safe law for school employees and for those of our students who experience bullying. This is a great responsibility when we know that being bullied, injured, plagued and frozen can lead the lives of those who are exposed to it. All in this committee believe that our children deserve a bully-free upbringing. Our responsibility is to make laws that ensure that children’s rights are respected, and then each school has to take on the daily work of preventing and tackling bullying problems where they occur. The school's most important task when it is warned about bullying or seeing it, is to act. Nothing is as depressing as noticing and so felt not to be followed up: We said so, but they did nothing about it. ? It's not an attitude that our children should meet in school. There is a lot of agreement between the Committee on this legislative proposal. On some points, we have also worked together in the process here in Stortinget. But we get a little bit different on other points, where we have the same goal, but maybe look a little bit different on the instruments. In its legislative proposal, the government has stressed the need to strengthen the rights of students and parents and to legislate more clearly on what schools should do when students are bullied. The most important step here is the introduction of an activity obligation. The duty of activity is an activative act that most parties and hearing bodies seem to have the sense of. So the parties in the committee differ in their views as to whether this should replace the individual decision, which has so far been the main tools of the schools, or whether it should be added. The government's proposal to introduce an activity obligation instead of a single decision states that pupils and parents should have both transparency and counter-dictation and should be able to follow both the school's plan and the school's follow-up. At the same time – in the draft law – the individual decision is transferred to the State as a enforcement body. The county council shall be upgraded in terms of competence and capacity to deal with the bullying more effectively and better than hitherto. The Committee has held different views on the obligation of activity versus individual decisions. It is also reflected in the position and in the vote. Another area where there has been a discussion is County as a enforcement authority. In Stortinget, we have also met with counter-conceptions in that a stand-alone, independent enforcement body has been set up. I think the goal has been the same: an effective enforcement agency with competence and enough capacity, working for the best of the children in the law we have. The intention is also behind the government's proposal to build on the State, which today also has a wide mandate and many tasks related to the supervision of the school, children and young people sector in our counties. During the course of the proceedings in Stortinget, the Committee has also agreed to ask the government to carry out a review of the State uplifting arrangements, with a view to establishing a compensation and upliftment system in this field. There are measures such as: The Children's Ombudsman has made provision for this. The Committee has also wanted to make some changes to the State's ability to follow-up cases after a student has changed school, and we have proposed to keep the criminal provisions as they are today. I think that changes the minister of knowledge can live well with. It also meets part of the Committee’s input into the hearings. We request that the obligation of activity and the amendments to the appeal procedure be evaluated no later than two years after implementation. I hope that the law we are to adopt today will provide a clear and good framework for the employees of schools and not least for school students and their parents who need a clear law to guarantee their rights. With this, I would recommend that the Committee be set up and take up the proposal on which the Right is included.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e670	The representative, Norunn Tveiten Benestad, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e675	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his thorough examination. Then I would like to inform you that, as regards the issue of state-owned bullying agents, the representative Sandaune, who is the rapporteur on this matter, will respect the views of the Progress Party on this in his statement. First of all, let me say that we all know what bullying can result from misery for the individual and the individual's family, so I don't spend any more time on it. For many, many years, anti- bullying has been marked by talk and non-binding programmes. The Progress Party has been fighting bullying for several years as a heart issue, and we are therefore very pleased that we are finally bringing about major changes in the school environment regulations of the Education Act. The suspension involves a clear allocation of rights and responsibilities, and finally the effective sanctioning option is introduced against schools that do not take action against bullying. The proposal for new legislation will strengthen the rights of students who are being bullied and their parents, and be an effective tool against bullying and poor school environments. The introduction of an activity obligation is important. We have recorded that some people believe that the legal certainty of the students is weakened when the requirement for a single decision is removed. The Party of Progress will demonstrate that the background to the proposal is that today’s requirement for individual decisions has not worked as intended. Experience shows the need for new measures and supports the replacement of the obligation to take individual decisions by an enhanced activity obligation. Parents and superiors will still have access to the school plan to stop bullying, the right to be heard will be legalised, and it will be easier to report the matter to the County. In order to ensure that the changes work as intended, we ask that developments be closely monitored and that the changes concerning individual decisions be evaluated after two years. The duty of activity shall ensure that schools act promptly and correctly when a student does not have it safely and well at school. Everyone who works at school should follow up, alert and intervene against bullying and violations. Unfortunately, students experience being bullied and harassed by teachers and other adults in school. We are therefore pleased that there is now an increased obligation for activity in cases where there is an adult at school who is violating students. An action-oriented documentation requirement is introduced – to replace the individual decision. This shall demonstrate that the actions are actually implemented and ensure that the student and the parents are confident that something is happening. In addition to the plan, schools must document the work they are actually doing in order to fulfil the obligation of activity in individual cases. The Party will also stress that the government's efforts to prevent bullying in schools are not limited to the proposals contained in the proposal. Concrete and long-term work is being carried out and, in particular, efforts to increase the skills of teachers and other school staff will be an important tool for successful efforts to combat bullying. This work helps to give students good teachers who are safe on themselves and on their subject and who have respect in a classroom. In this context, the Progress Party will also demonstrate that the government has proposed a number of measures during the period in the fight against bullying. Among other things, measures against bullying are increased by 35 million. kr in the year’s budget. These means are used to strengthen the very important local competence against bullying. We are also pleased that the government has prioritised strengthening the Children's Ombudsman's capacity to help bully victims and their families. Lack of action on the part of the school can now be met with concrete sanctions. The Progress Party believes that coercive payments will be an appropriate tool to ensure that schools and school owners make the necessary changes to ensure that students have a safe school environment. There should be no doubt that complaints should be dealt with quickly and that criminal liability should not be weakened. The Progress Party therefore supports the proposal to maintain today’s debt requirements as well as the proposal to ask the Government to set deadlines for the processing of notifications and complaints by the State in the case of bullying. The Progress Party is also pleased that there is a broad consensus on the introduction of a compensation and uplifting scheme for students who are suffering learning losses or injuries due to bullying. Such a scheme can make it easier for the student to put the matter behind him, while at the same time helping the school to take its responsibility seriously. Finally, schools are required to inform students and parents about their rights. And now we're going to legislate that Norwegian school is going to have zero tolerance against bullying. Bullying at school is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e703	According to the 2016 Student Survey, almost 40,000 children and young people report being bullied. In 2013, the government put down the Djupedal Committee. More than two years ago, the sample provided about 100 suggestions on how to combat bullying in school. Few actions have been implemented, except for a web portal. Now finally, after four long years, the Stortinget will discuss the proposal for legislative changes. In the Labour Party we have waited a long time for this day. We have been impatient primarily on behalf of the children who are being bullied. It's about children who still get comments on appearance, how they go or how they talk, children who are pushed, turned, spit on and kicked, children who are kept out in the spare minutes, on the class tours and in the birthdays, children who are harassed online, children who feel that they are a nuisance and are a burden, yes in the worst case feel that they should not be here. This is serious enough in itself, and not least it is serious when we know which tracks this can put later in life. We politicians have a responsibility to prevent and stop bullying. Students and parents should be sure that they are taken good care of at school. One of the ways we can take this responsibility is to create a law that works – a law where students and supervisors can be sure that unfortunate episodes are taken up and handled. The Minister of Knowledge has had a lot of fun about his bill, especially from the anti- bullying organisations. They are concerned that the legislative proposal in some areas will result in a deterioration in the law. That the right to have individual decisions taken at school is a case in point. What are the consequences for the legal certainty of the parties involved in a bullying case? Lawyers, anti- bullying organisations, the Federation of Education and the KS ask the same question. Single decisions are taken in many contexts at a school — when extra education is to be carried out, when to ask for a little extra freedom, and when to extend the exam time, e.g. due to dyslexia or pollen allergy. It is therefore natural to think that individual decisions are also taken when a serious situation arises that concerns the psychosocial environment. The working party will maintain the single decision while reinforcing the obligation to operate. It doesn't have to be either – or – let's do both of them, both simple decisions and duty of activity. The Minister of Knowledge has also received some criticisms to suggest that personal criminal liability in bullying is changed from negligent action to grossly negligent action. This is obviously a weakening of the law. I am pleased that the Storting will do so differently and that the Minister of Knowledge is going to fail in this matter. The problem has not been that too many people have been held responsible for serious bullying – nor have there been too few. A year ago, the Workers' Party promoted 21 proposals in the UK to combat bullying in school. We proposed, among other things: the time when a settlement system was to be established for students who have been injured by bullying because of the failure of the system. All 21 proposals were voted down by the government parties, but we are pleased that the Stortinget has now agreed with us, and that the Minister of Knowledge is instructed to put in place a system of upliftment, even if initially it was not proposed in the proposition. Then we are disappointed that the government does not follow the clear recommendation of the Djupedal Committee to set up a national complaint body for bullying. We need a well-known complaint body, which has good legal competence and not least good child-care skills. In Sweden, they have a national complaint body. It has been shown to work well. We want a resource and expertise center for bullying and psychosocial work environments. We could have done this in a constellation, e.g. to the Children’s Ombudsman. It doesn't help to say from here, they don't do anything about it anyway, said a young boy. It is a huge responsibility on us and the changes in the laws we are going to deal with in the Storting today. Fortunately, it is the Stortinget that finally adopts and treats the laws of the country. If the government could do as it would, the law would actually at some point be weaker than it is today. That's not good. I take up the proposal Workers' Party is on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e726	The representative of Christian Thinning Bjørnø has mentioned what the proposal referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e731	We've heard the stories. We've seen the reports. We have met the students who have locked themselves in the bathroom because they do not dare to enter the classroom or go out to the schoolyard. We've met the kids who don't have anyone to be with. And we've met the parents who have experienced some of the worst that exists – that their child is being bullied and molested. I think that makes a deep impression on us all. Most people are well off and well off at school in Norway, but bullying is still a serious problem that affects too many people. It's time to grab a new grip. We need to strengthen prevention, we need to ensure better assistance for those who are being bullied, and we need to ensure a better complaint system. I believe that the government has promoted several good proposals that the Stortinget is following up today. When a bully arises, it is essential that the school deals immediately. Now we turn the focus away from form requirements and from action. We follow up the recommendation of the Djupedal Committee to replace current practice with a single decision obligation with an enhanced duty of activity for school staff – an obligation to act. This is supported by the Children’s Ombudsman, by the teachers of the Education Association and by the students of the Student Organisation. At the same time, we improve the complaint system to make it simpler, safer and faster. I think the government has made several good proposals, but I have also said that I wish the government could be more offensive in the fight for a safe and good learning environment for everyone. That is why I am pleased that the Education Committee at Stortinget has been more offensive than the government has been. The government is now being asked to introduce deadlines for the County when the County receives a complaint. The Committee refuses to reduce the personal criminal liability of school staff to apply only in cases of gross negligence. It says that it should be possible to complain about the school's handling of a bullying case even after the student has moved to another school. There's two things I'm especially fond of. One is that a joint committee is now asking for a review of the public redress mechanisms, with a view to establishing a system of redress for people who have suffered injury or learning losses as a result of bullying. In particular, I would like to thank the Foundation for its guidance on the losers, who have been an important driver for this. The second is that a joint committee now supports the Christian People’s Party’s proposal to establish bullying agents in all counties. Many who experience being bullied feel very alone. Having a person to turn to to get help, support and guidance can mean a lot. Bullying agents can also contribute to prevention. However, in order for the bullying agents to function optimally, I believe it is essential that they are given some national guidelines and a clear mandate, and that both professional competence is required and that they are linked to a professional environment. I don't think this is the last time the fight against bullying is the theme here in the staging room. I don't think that through the decisions we make today, we can say that the job is done once and for all, and that all the problems are now solved. I mean there are two things that become especially important in the future. One is to ensure more teachers in school — more adult eyes to see each student and to follow. The second is a strengthened school health service, so that there is actually a health sister available when the students need help. In both of these areas, the Christian People's Party has had an important impact during this great period, but we are not in goal, and therefore both more teachers and more health sisters are going to become important matters for the Christian People's Party in the future. But I believe that today we are making important decisions that will strengthen the prevention of bullying, which will ensure better help for those who are being bullied and who will help ensure a safe and healthy learning environment for all children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e750	On 18 March two years ago, the so-called Djupedal Committee issued a reasonably comprehensive NOU on ‘To belong’. I then imagined that the government – in addition to tightening up the law – would follow up the report by proposing a ‘action plan for safe breeding environments without intrusions, bullying, harassment and discrimination for children and young people’, as the sample suggested. I must personally say that I was very surprised, I was a little surprised, and I was disappointed when I realized that the government did not intend to present any action plan. And misunderstand me correctly: it is important to review the laws in order to make the restrictions necessary for all parties to discharge their responsibilities, but I certainly believe that changes only in the training law are not enough for raising awareness in such an important matter. The Children’s Convention defines bullying as a social problem. It's in agreement with the Center Party. That's why I have repeatedly stressed in articles on the theme of bullying that bullying is not just a challenge for the schools. We – the community around us, the environment – have a great responsibility to go ahead with a good example and conduct ourselves so that young people around us don't start bullying. Our own association both directly and, not least, on social media is important. Kids aren't born bullies, they're learning it – and they're learning it from us. Therefore, the prevention of bullying is a collective responsibility. But the government does not choose to see the matter this way. It's okay, but in any case, the Center Party believes that the NOU should be mandatory reading for all teachers out there, whether you're a specialist in a subject, a contact teacher or a principal. If schools are to be able to fulfil their commitments, concrete measures and working methods are also necessary. So to the very proposals we have to deal with today. First, amendments to the law and the proposal to replace the obligation to act and individual decisions with an obligation to act. The intention of the proposal is that school owners and schools should intervene more quickly when such cases occur. Today’s legislation contains the same obligation as the new proposal, but it has in many cases been such that although individual decisions have been written in the cases, the follow-up itself has been missing. To me, it seems uncertain whether follow-up and action on a case will be improved by removing individual decisions and redeploying the obligation to act. Like the parental networks against bullying, the Education Association and the KS, the Centre shares the concern for the legal security of young people by removing the right to individual decisions. This applies not least to who is responsible, the scope of the documentation, etc. For those who are subject to bullying, either by young people or adults at school, it is important that there is a Board of Appeal. Several have pointed to the Children’s Ombudsman as suitable for this. However, the government has decided to propose that it be the county councillors who should be the Board of Appeal, because they are closer to the municipalities and have a better knowledge of each municipality. As you know, the people are also responsible for supervision today. The central party has agreed to support the proposal that the County should be the Board of Appeal. However, we also see challenges in this respect, as the county councillors can be said to be too close to the municipalities and too close to each school, as well as the supervisory responsibilities they have. But by putting this heavy responsibility on the statesmen, we expect the procedure for complaints to be faster and simpler than today. Finally, the Christian People's Party has once again made proposals for its own bullying agent for each state. The centre party has asked questions about the proposal, since there are already students and apprentices in most states. We believe it is better to use the functions we have today, effectively, and not contribute to increased bureaucracy. We know that parents and students can benefit from having contact with a regional student and apprentice representative, and expect county councils to see these functions in the context. Many of today's agents are already spending time on bullying. It will also be important for the Ombudsman not to be charged with the political expectations of individual municipalities or municipalities, but to become the unobserved ombudsman that it is intended to be. Completely: Harm is of all others are being pulled on and needed. But worse to know. that you are not connected. There's so much in life. You wait and will. But more than that, is to right to. These are the words on the cover of the NOU from the Djupedal Committee, by Jan-Magnus Bruheim. It's the bottom plank of life, whether we're young or old.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e792	First of all, I would like to thank both the rapporteurs for having handled the matter well. The thing about bullying, and these things that we have, there's been a lot of commitment around. There has been much discussion both in the media, in the schools, in the classrooms, among parents and among students. As the committee, we've got a lot of input, and we've noticed the great commitment that's out there. Many have waited a long time for this matter, and many are also happy that the matter has come. Nevertheless, it is important to remember that although we make some decisions here today, it is not like no students are going to be bullied at school tomorrow. Although we have the best intentions and really want this to end, there must be continuous work in schools every day to deal with these problems. Bullying cannot and must not be tolerated. I think the case rapporteur said it very well when she said it is so diverse, this with bullying. But one of the things that may be very bad is the adults who see it, who know it, who just pass by, and the students who feel they're making contact with an adult without anything happening. It shouldn't be like that. It is the responsibility of adults to make sure that children are well, not least at school. That's why it's important that we in schools have school management who have the skills to prevent, meet and handle bullying in their schools. It is good that the government has announced that all new Vice-Chancellors will be offered education in pedagogical management, and that there will be skills development for the already experienced school leaders, because management is crucial if we are to deal with the issue of bullying. In Stavanger Municipality, we used to have a principal named Eli Gundersen. She said that the only thing that helps is to focus continuously on the bullying problem. One can have as many programs as one just wants, but if one doesn't focus on the bullying problem, you can't get rid of it either. It says something about doing one thing here today, but that's where it actually happens. There are many who have been excited about the duty of activity. To intervene, to warn, to investigate, and to put in action is very important, not least for those who are being bullied. We fully support the purpose, and I think that's the right way to think about it. What has been the big debate is whether to replace the single decision with a duty of activity or whether, as the Left wishes, one can have both. Several stakeholders have consulted the Committee, pointing out that the removal of the individual decision could weaken the legal certainty of children. Among other things, parental networks against bullying point to the importance of keeping the single decision. It is also pointed out that there have been challenges in the fact that the legislation is demanding and difficult for schools to deal with. But in the left we believe that if that's the case, we have to school our schools so that they can actually apply the individual decisions in a good way. That's something the rest of the administration has to deal with, and there's also something that the schools have to deal with in other contexts. So we don't think that can be a reason to remove the single decision from the schools. There has been a topic with the Boards of Appeal, and there are arguments for several things, as Anne Tingelstad Wøien just said. There are many good arguments for having independent, independent access to justice. At the same time, the county officials are well acquainted with the school, and they are out in all the counties or in the regions, so we also support the County as a Board of Appeal. Criminal liability has been proposed to be changed to a deliberate and grossly negligent violation of the law – it is only then that one should be punishable. One thing is that it is perceived as weakening the legal certainty of the students, but it is also perceived quite symbolically. I think that's why many people have responded to it, and that's why the committee has received a lot of feedback. It is good to see that the Committee can take on the feedback we have received and that we agree to maintain today's debt requirements. Finally, I think it is a good proposal from the Christian People's Party to have bullying agents in all states and all regions. For us, it's important that it doesn't necessarily mean that they have to be employed in county administration, but that it's about having them in each state. It seems that there will be a majority of the activity obligation. The left will vote in favour of proposal No. 1 on case No. 5, which is about evaluating it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e822	School is a common meeting place where all children and young people will gain knowledge and develop their skills, attitudes and values. A good and inclusive learning environment is an important ingredient for well-being, increased motivation and measles. If we're to succeed in creating a school that includes everyone and gives everyone equal opportunities for happiness, we have to make sure that the school has time and space to see the individual, create a good and safe learning environment for everyone, and organize the teaching so that everyone learns on their premises. Each child is unique and comes to school with his whole life story. Disability is one of the school's biggest and most demanding challenges. Hence, the school is as important as the arena for dialogue and brewing, where we as individuals and groups are and will be different. This means that the fight against bullying must be won again and again every day through nine-time systematic work. Research shows that a good and inclusive learning environment contributes to both professional and social well-being at school. For each individual student, a good learning environment is, for example, a good learning environment. experiencing community inclusion without bullying and intrusion. A good learning environment provides students with the basis for both mastering and progress in training. This is about good relationships between the elephants, and between the teacher and the student. As a result, it is important that all those working at school have skills and tools that enable them to prevent, detect and stop bullying. Bullying at school is a growing-up responsibility, and school leaders and teachers have to take that responsibility. However, national and local authorities must facilitate the necessary support in meeting this work. SV will introduce a standard for increasing learning density at all levels of primary school, eartaging resources for the school services, and increasing the scope for school-based empowerment to ensure students a good and safe school environment. Adaptive education will reduce the number of falls, and more people will be seen in school. More teachers and a strengthened school health service in combination with increased skills enhancement are important measures to prevent and combat unwanted behaviour and bullying in school. Large classes may make it difficult for students to achieve social inclusion and security in school every day. The government suggests that the school should no longer be obliged to take individual decisions when pupils or parents ask for measures related to the psychosocial school environment. This proposal meets with strong criticism from several hearing authorities, which believe this will weaken the legal certainty of the students. A simple decision gives rights of the parties, access and appeal and is the family's sole object to the administrative law. On the other hand, SV is that the requirement for a single decision is removed. SV cannot support a proposal that will help to balance students' legal certainty. SV, together with the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Left, therefore propose that the requirement for a single decision on bullying be maintained. We are forced to take seriously the serious concerns raised by elephants and parents who have experienced bullying on the body. When they now express great concern that the legal certainty of the students is weakened, we must take it seriously. On the establishment of the National Board of Appeal: the current complaint procedure in mob cases is not working properly enough. Few complaints are dealt with by the County Council in spite of the long-term high levels of bullying. It is disappointing that the government is unable to put in place an independent national complaint body for bullying, but doubtful about the County as a complaint body. This is contrary to the recommendations of the Djupedal Selection and the advice of those who have experienced severe bullying. We ask the government to establish a national resource and competence centre for bullying and to do so as a complaint body for bullying. The Centre must have good legal and pedagogical competence and must be assessed under the activities of the Children's Office. Finally, on debt claims in bullying: the legal certainty of the students is weakened by raising the level of criminal liability from ‘negligent’ to ‘precious’. A condition of gross negligence and serious or repeated actions would be difficult for the student to prove. SV is pleased that the majority of the Stortinges do not support the government’s proposal to change the debt requirement from indiscriminately to grossly indiscriminately, and that an aggregate increase sees the need to settle an upsizing as a compensation scheme for elephants who have suffered learning losses or injuries as a result of bullying – and that for plaintiffs in cases of compensation should be subject to free legal aid schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e846	This is neither the beginning nor the end of the anti- bullying work. In the budgets we have presented, important measures have been put in place to combat bullying, such as: school competence package, improved information and strengthening of the Children’s Ombudsman. But the most important thing today is that this isn't the end. This is the legal package related to the anti- bullying work, but it won't work if we don't keep the pressure up. We're not done yet. The starting point is that bullying is not going to happen. That's why we've gone through the whole anti- bullying policy to look at: what can get better, what do we have to do more about, what do we have to change? The legislative proposals that we are putting forward and which are being discussed today are going to encroach on and reinforce what we have already done, because we also need to have legislation that works. Many of the measures and regulatory changes are based on the work of the Djupedal Committee, which Kristin Halvorsen put down, and some of the good things about that sample were just that it didn't look at this as a piecely and divided issue, but looked at all aspects of anti- bullying at the same time. We have concentrated our efforts on three main areas. The first is empowerment in schools, kindergartens and owners, the second is support for bullying victims and their families, and the third is effective legislation. The main concepts of the bill package that we are presenting today are, first of all, that we are legislating zero tolerance against bullying. It is a clear and clear signal of how it should be at each school. Then we're in favour of a clear and actionable duty of activity at school. And just so it's clear: it doesn't mean that the single decision is going to be gone, but the single decision will be made by the State rather than at school. The Djupedal Committee pointed out that the single decision and the decision-making obligation, as it is today, prevent the school, at worst, from acting quickly and efficiently. Instead, it becomes a formalistic, bureaucratic process. It simply does not work as it was intended. Now there are clear demands for action for students to get faster help. The guarantees of legal certainty, such as transparency, the right to comment, documentation requirements and the right to appeal, are laid down separately. Then I realize that it's an intrusive idea to say that why can't we have both an activity obligation and a single decision. The problem with this is that at the moment you have a single decision at the school, you also follow today's complaint on the purchase. It follows from the Administrative Act. And it's just today's complaint system the Djupedal committee pointed out led to unnecessary stay and that many students did not get help quickly enough. In addition, we need to offer children and young people a proper safety net when the school does not do what it is supposed to do. Today's appeal system is not working well enough. Everyone agrees. It has to be simpler, faster and more efficient. As far as the appeal procedure is concerned, however, we have not done exactly what the Djupedal Committee proposes. We've said that we believe the County still has to be first instance. This is because the county is located locally – the county can see the whole municipality, and therefore the whole child, in both school, kindergarten, child protection and health – and because the county is independent of the municipalities and schools. But that does not mean that the statesmen can continue as today, rather on the contrary. They have both more resources in the year's budget and will have far higher demands and greater expectations. They are also given greater capacity and a clearer mandate to deal closely with matters and to have access, inter alia, to: using fines and periodic penalty payments to push for change where necessary. In addition, we have also proposed strengthening the Children’s Ombudsman, so that the Children’s Ombudsman will continue to strengthen his or her role as a child’s lawyer and helper, and as a guard in the system. In the state budget for this year, 75 million have been allocated. kr to various direct measures to combat bullying. It's almost a doubling of the level. But, as I said, the money isn't enough. We have to combine it with measures that work, a regulation that works, and a system that is constantly on the alert. Finally, the Christian People's Party has proposed that we introduce bullying agents in all states or regions. It is a proposal that the government supports. That means that the question now is how we're going to do this, how we're going to make sure that we're based on the experience of the trial systems that have been, that we're getting effective local bullying, and that we're getting a system that really helps those who are being bullied and harassed at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e871	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e876	In winter we could read the following in the VG: ‘The government’s most visible response to bullying so far is a website. Now the friends in KrF, Left and Young Right are responding to the lack of bullying." Only now, at the very close of the period, will we deal with the changes in the law on the school environment of students — four years after the establishment of the Djupedal Committee. After a quick review, I have come to the conclusion that the Council of State has implemented only one-tenth of the proposals and actions of the Djupedal Committee, ten out of one hundred. It's probably evidence of poor implementation. Is the Council satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e888	It is not right that we had not provided more than one website in winter. I would also say that it sounds a little too easy to minimize this to be just a website. This was collecting the information because it was completely inaccessible and not possible to find, and it was not in human language. It's been one year since we first presented our proposals for the legal package, i.e. the changes in the laws on anti- bullying. I will admit that we spent a little longer time than I had planned. The reason for this is that what we sent out to the hearing in the first round got some criticism. It got a lot of criticism from, among other things. heavy instances like the Children's Ombudsman, which I thought were so heavy and important that we had to take another round, for example. to look at the obligation of record-keeping in order to strengthen the obligation of activity and to ensure that there could be no doubt that this strengthened the legal certainty of children. As a result, even though the Children’s Ombudsman did not support everything when we presented this package, the Children’s Ombudsman said in all media that ‘it seems that the time of de minimisisation is now over’. I believe that it was worth using a few more months to do it correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e895	We don't trivialize. We want more because we take the kids seriously. Back to the changes we are dealing with today: Several anti- bullying organisations and others have warned that the bill is too weak – ‘a major setback’ and ‘weaker students’ rights’. This is what parents, lawyers and schoolmen say. Fortunately, it is the Stortinge that adopts laws, not the Council of State, because today the Council of State is failing in terms of the criminal liability of adults, and is being asked to put in place a system of uprisings, even after the Right voted against this one year ago. Is this the wing? Has the Council of State changed its mind, or does the Council of State disagree?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e906	No, I'm on what we've put forward. It is absolutely right that there have been discussions about this, and it should just be missing, because we have had a system that many students and parents feel failed by over so many years. But it's also worth mentioning that e.g. The Children’s Ombudsman believes that the obligation to operate is an important part of this change. The student organisation, representing students in Norway, believes that the activity obligation, as we have presented, is an important part of the follow-up to the Djupedal Committee, which also suggested it. I haven't even, during this four-year period, been able to put a lot of prestige in that every single detail we put forward has to be adopted just as we have presented it in the Storting. You can make a big point of it -- I'm not so interested in it -- but the changes that the Storting has made are fine. I don't have time now – in eight seconds – to explain why we put forward exactly what we did, but I think what the Greatness has decided is things we can live well with, and with which it's good to get big and cross-political uprisings.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e915	I think maybe there are a lot of those who follow the debate, who are concerned about this particular reaction pattern, not least parents who have kids who are being bullied. It seems – at least on me – that it is a little easier for us to talk about reactions, who should move, and what kind of responsibility individual people should have. What is much more difficult is what we should do to avoid creating this legislation. As I said in my post, I was very disappointed that the government was not willing to provide an action plan for the work against bullying. The council said now that one had spent 75 million. for measures. Then I thought the council would have the opportunity to tell what measures the government would want the schools to do to prevent bullying and make sure it was going to be a good school environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e920	In that 75-million pot. kr is the two main measures to strengthen the County Council in order to improve its complaint procedure and – most importantly – the competence package now being rolled out in schools. This shall apply to all. Everyone will have the opportunity to increase their skills and to be more able to do so, but the Education Directorate has been told that the schools that need to be given priority are the schools that have long-term, over several years, too high levels of bullying. This is important, not only because we need knowledge of new legislation, but also because – as the representative Tingelstad Wøien said – prevention and daily work are the most important things. In other words, regardless of legal work, legal text, legal remedies and so on, what happens is a very common Wednesday — how to get involved in unrest, when someone gets bullied or harassed — is the most important thing. I want to add one more thing, and that's that we're not just strengthening the Children's Ombudsman, but we've also strengthened... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e927	It was fine, what the council said when it was about the competence package going out, but I have to say that what I expected from the government was that we had an action plan, that it was going to be a follow-up to the thick NOU that the Djupedal Committee came with. Now the council says we're going to have a competence package, but what's the content of it? Who's going to help decide what's going to be in it? What kind of work should be done in the individual school? Can the council say a little bit more about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e932	The health nurse was what I did not get the time to mention in the previous round, which is also important for this, although of course it is not included in these 75 million. kr. The competence package was one of the major proposals of the Djupedal Committee. It was because they saw that there is simply a lack of knowledge about what bullying is, how to prevent it – lack of systematic work in schools. It's the Directorate of Education, as our department, who develops this together with professional environments and expertise, and then this is to be rolled out, so that all Norwegian schools can use it. But we have also said that those schools that have persistently major bullying problems over time — almost all schools have bullying in some way over a few years, but some have high bullying rates over time — should be given priority, and we should target them further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e940	The Djupedal Committee pointed out that high-level bullying school leaders do not recognise in the same way that bullying is a problem that can arise at their school, and that it is a challenge in Norwegian school that management and teachers are too little aware of negative events occurring in the student community. The Committee has been concerned that school leaders need competence to prevent, meet and handle bullying at school. The Minister of Knowledge has also shown himself that school leaders will now be offered training. Both new Vice-Chancellors and the more experienced Vice-Chancellors will gain competence in this particular field. I wonder if the minister can say anything about how he sees this to be designed. What are they going to have competence in, and how are we going to be able to implement such a level of competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e947	First of all, I think it is still, unfortunately, an attitude problem in many places – that one minimizes bullying, and thus does not understand what it means for the student, and how to combat it. This means that in some schools there is simply a lack of understanding of the crisis. Right now, the Committee is working on and examining a proposal in which, among other things: suggests that all the principals be offered to go to the rector's school. Getting a principal's training and going to the rector's school is not just about getting a general management school or being schooled or trained in budget work or that kind of thing. It is also highly relevant to the learning environment, and the learning environment and the fight against bullying are closely linked. But of course, it's not my job, as a politician, to go into the details of how this is done. We need to use competent professionals and professional environments for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e952	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e959	Last December, the latest PISA results came — much debated and with a lot of publicity as usual, but the main finding received little attention. Nearly one in five students said they feel different and don't fit into school. Over the course of ten years, there are now twice as many people who respond that they feel lonely at school, or that they are kept out. As if it was not serious enough, there were new figures in January from the student survey that show that more students than ever experienced being bullied. It is probably true what has been said here in the debate, that the decisions we are making today will not end the bullying. But hopefully we'll take some steps in the right direction. Improving the legal position of pupils and parents means that the obligation of each school to follow up, to react and to act becomes greater. From the Labour Party we would like to go further than what we get today. We would like to keep the individual decision on bullying matters. It is easier for parents to appeal and complain about a treatment if you have this legal obligation to individual decisions. We also want school leaders to be held accountable when they have neglected their duties in bullying, and we are opposed to the government's proposal to make this more difficult. We would have had a new and better national complaint system in bullying cases that are more accessible to students and parents and that have greater child-care skills. Nevertheless, it is good that the Stortinget is more offensive than the government is, and I am also pleased that the Council of State says he does not have any record in it. Now, it's probably like a government council that's going to go ahead in things like the Storting vote down, no longer is the state council, so it's probably really great to have such an intrusive angle. This is an area in which we agree politically on the goal, but it is incomprehensible that these decisions come only now, at the end of the fourth session of this great period. The Djupedal committee came over two years ago. It was understandable that the Council of State wanted to wait for that investigation, but that we have come to the end of a four-year period with so few measures and so little action, it is sad. Of course, it is the most serious thing for all those kids in school who have had to wait four years for the measures. Now we're strengthening the law, but in truth, it's not really the law that has been wrong with it. The demands for a safe psychosocial work environment for students have been there all along. There's action related to continuing education, there's demands for principals, teachers and adults in school, that's the effort we should make together, that's failed. It is a paradox that the eagerness shown by the Council of State to provide teachers with training in math and real life has been totally absent from bullying, and this is perhaps the most important of all. Students who thrive learn more. Therefore, this is also an important knowledge measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e974	It has been a pleasure to be the case rapporteur in a matter like this. I would like to start by thanking the Committee on Good Cooperation and the Christian People's Party as the proposer of the proposal, which calls for the introduction of local bullying agents in each state or region. There is no doubt that bullying is a major social problem and a serious violation of human dignity. The student survey for 2016 showed that 6.3 pst. by all children and young people in primary and secondary education feel bullied. It equals 58 000 children and young people. Despite countless anti- bullying programs and campaigns in the last 20 years, the number of students who say they're being bullied is still too high. We politicians should take self-criticism here and admit that anti- bullying has for too long consisted of wretched programs and big words and too little action. There is now a cross-political consensus to step up efforts against bullying. The Committee agrees that more concrete measures in the fight against bullying need to be considered and therefore supports the proposal in the document on the introduction of local bullying agents in each state or region. The Committee also refers to letters from the Ministry of Knowledge of the State Council of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen to the Church, Education and Research Committee, dated 22 March 2017, where the Council of State is in favour of establishing county or regional bullying agents. I would particularly like to highlight two important points in the response from the Council of State. Ombudsmen’s responsibilities must cover the entire educational cycle from kindergarten to secondary education, and the representatives must be guaranteed independence from the school owner. In the document, an overall committee indicates that the system of bullying has been evaluated by Telemark research and that the evaluation shows that local ombudsmen can play an important role in the provision of skills to schools and school owners and by assisting pupils in individual cases. The evaluation from Telemarksforschung has two clear conclusions. Firstly, local bullying agents must be responsible for the entire training cycle from kindergarten to secondary education. Secondly, the agents must be independent and independent. A single committee would stress that the ombudsman structure of the education sector must be linked and transparent, not least in order to ensure that the ombudsmen are easily accessible to students and apprentices, and that the offer is easy to use and easy to understand. The Committee also points out that the Children’s Ombudsman has a high level of competence in this area and that the Children’s Ombudsman is therefore referred to as a possible co-operation body. I recommend the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e991	The working party praises itself and criticises the government for spending too much time. It makes me take the floor again in this matter. On 28 May 2009, the Church, Education and Research Committee gave its opinion on Document 8:97 for 2008-2009, where representatives of the Progress Party Anders Anundsen and Jon Jäger Gåssvatn proposed measures to strengthen the fight against bullying. I will quote a little from that matter: «The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party believe that the Training Act § 9-A is not a sufficient instrument to ensure students against bullying. Despite the fact that the provision has had its natural place in the Training Act, the practice of the provision is unfortunately not consistent and the follow-up in the event of a clear breach of the provision is too poor.» Today, we finally adopt a complete review and revision of Chapter 9a of the Education Act, the Studente's school environment. I would then like to point out that the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have put forward proposals in the document: ‘The Government asks the Government to take information measures to school owners on how to combat bullying through consistent use of school regulations and other awareness-raising measures [[...]] This voted against the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. Fortunately, today they are for. We're supposed to be happy about that. So the next one: «The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party indicate that several cases have been raised with claims for compensation against the school owner. Few cases end in a conviction. [[...]] These members would therefore like the Government to carry out a review of existing compensation legislation with a view to implementing changes that would benefit those who have had their whole or part of their life destroyed by bullying in school. The responsibility of the school owner in such cases must be clarified.» In the document the representatives of the Progress Party made the following proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that bullying victims are effectively entitled to compensation when the school owner has failed in his/her responsibilities. It is assessed whether the basis of liability should be objective.’;» Only the Progress Party voted in favour of this. Fortunately, however, everyone is voting for this today. I must again stress that we should be happy for that. But I will, knowingly – for the Labour Party’s part, which is a bit high today and criticises the fact that it has taken time to investigate the matter and get a thorough and good case – that also eight years is a terrible long time. I think we have to work together against bullying, and instead of talking down, we have to work together for zero tolerance for bullying in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1023	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1039	This case concerns the National Audit Office’s examination of the operational capability of the frigate weapons, Document 3:13 for 2015–2016. The aim of the National Audit Office’s investigation has been to identify whether the Defence Agency has established a frigate weapon as provided by the Stortinget, and to elucidate the causes of any weaknesses or shortcomings and their possible consequences for operational capability. The Riksrevision study has been based on grossing-up projections from 1998 onwards in the years ahead and extends until the end of 2014/2015. The report thus shows the status at that time. The report of the Riksrevisionen has been classified under the Safety Act §§ 11 and 12. However, at the request of the Presidentship of the Grand Duchy, the National Audit Office has prepared an up-to-date summary of the content of the report so as to allow it to deal with the matter as a normal case in Stortinget. On 10 November 2016, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, when considering the matter under review at Haakonsvern, decided to hold an open hearing on the matter on 24 February 2017. The setting and comments of the Committee shall be based on the unupgraded summary, the inspection of Haacon protection and the open hearing. This has initially been a major and complicated matter in many ways, and I would first of all like to thank the members of the Committee for their constructive and good cooperation in the work on this position, which the Committee largely supports. On some points, there are a number of different majority points in the Committee's comments, and I assume that other representatives of the Committee present their specific comments. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to representatives of the Defence Department, the Navy and representatives of the Ministry of Defence who met the Committee at the Haakonsvernung inspection and provided the Committee with useful and good information as well as detailed answers to the Committee's questions. Before the Committee gave its opinion on the Storting, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy was put to the vote and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence expressed the following opinion: ‘The members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence align themselves with the draft recommendation of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs to Document 3:13 and have no further comments.’;» [[2015-2016]] The frigates play a key role in resolving the defence's tasks in military conflicts and in war. The frigates shall be capable of deterring and combating submarines, but shall also have a certain ability to defend against other vessels and aeroplanes. The frigate weapon, together with our submarines, is the backbone of the Maritime Defense and, with an integrated helicopter capacity, will be a very flexible unit, with great potential both nationally and internationally. The frigates, as I said, have as their primary task the fight against submarines, among other things. to ensure the movement of national and allied forces by sea. Furthermore, the frigates have a command and control system that makes them suitable for the role of command platform for tactical management of maritime forces. I would like to point out here that Norway will be providing a frigate as a commanding vessel for NATO's standing maritime force, SNMG1, as it is called in NATO language, throughout 2017. The Committee points out that the Norwegian frigates have been developed as modern ‘multi-purpose’ frigates. Their reach and stamina combined with the breadth of sensor and weapon capabilities enable the frigates to cover in principle all maritime operations nationally and internationally in peace, crisis and war. In its report, the Court of Auditors concluded that: Sea defence has a frigate weapon with lower operational capability than provided by Stortinget. The reserve management weakens the operational capability of the frigates. The retarded maintenance of the frigates impairs operational capability. There are weaknesses in overall performance information for the department. As stated in the report, the Riksrevision points out that the maintenance of the frigates by the spare part management and the lag in the maintenance of the frigates are contributing to the deterioration of the operational capability. The majority of the Committee would also point out that the fundamental reason why the frigates had a lower operational capacity than originally foreseen by the Stortinge is that there has not been a sufficient balance between the tasks of the Defence as such and the Marine as such, and the annual appropriations for the Defence. In other words, the size has adopted a defence structure that has not been adequately funded. Former Chief of Defence, General Sverre Dien also pointed out this imbalance in his statement during the hearing on 24 February 2017. The majority of the Committee endorses the conclusions of the National Audit Office and is pleased that the Minister for Defence takes the conclusions seriously. The majority refers to the Minister of Defence’s opinion at the hearing: ‘The findings that have been made are serious, and all of us who have been sitting here today have been involved. [[...]] I also believe that it has been well explained how you could get in this situation, from the early choices you made regarding spare parts packages, and the assessments you have made relating to how much it would cost to operate a frigate weapon, operate a marine defense, priorities you have made at different times as to whether you should do more or less related to, for example. maintenance or spare parts. As others have pointed out, measures have been implemented throughout." With regard to the management of spare parts, the Committee points out that the weaknesses and deficiencies pointed out by the Riksaudition have been known both in the Maritime Defence, in the top management of the Defence and in the Ministry. The Committee points out that the lack of spare parts and long recovery times have led to extensive so-called cannibalisation, i.e. picking parts of a vessel for use on another vessel, pending new parts. After phasing out the Oslo class, one had to get rid of many spare parts that had not been required, and the experience from this was that one would have to sit with a limited initial package to avoid getting into the same situation. After the first year of operation, it was found that the stock was too small, and the defense recommended a budget of 683 million. kr. for additional acquisitions, but the Storting granted only 202 million. kr. This led to the cannibalisation of parts of vessels under construction. The majority of the Committee considers this to be an example of underfinancing by the Storting. The majority agree with the Riksrevision that the challenges in the back-up management are very serious and that both the Ministry and the head of defence are responsible for resolving the back-up situation. The Committee has noted that a number of projects have been put in place to ensure adequate access to spare parts and ammunition and, in particular, refers to an opinion of the Council of State during the consultation on a total of 420 million. kr to improve the situation of the spare part and to acquire emergency stocks in the Marine, most of which goes to the frigates. In the case of maintenance kits, the Committee points out that it was originally set up for condition-based maintenance and that this would give about 25 pst. reduction in maintenance costs. Because the frigates have limited sensors and systems for a condition-based system on board, it has therefore not been possible to realise the gain you initially saw. Thus, maintenance costs have been heavily under-budgeted from the outset, or – in a different way – budgeted on an unrealistic basis. The Committee points out that in recent years, maritime defence has been given increased maintenance appropriations in order to reduce the maintenance run. The Committee points out here that in recent years the Stortinget has decided to upgrade the weapon systems, the propulsion of the steering systems and the electrical systems on board the frigates. If the long-term plan is followed, the maintenance kit run will be completed by 2020, and the Committee considers this to be satisfactory. With regard to manning and competence, the Committee points out that the original concept of the frigate weapon was that the maritime defence was to sail with four frigates, while the latter was to operate with the main maintenance and training of crews. However, in 2005, this was changed by the Stortinget to three operational vessels, while the other two were training and main maintenance respectively. There has sometimes been a shortage of critically qualified personnel, such as war officers and technical staff. The Committee points out that the land structure of the Maritime Defence has been considerably slimned in recent years and some personnel have been moved on board the vessels. This has led the Marine from the autumn of 2016 to manning an extra frigate and an extra corvette. The Committee takes the view that measures already implemented, including the commitment to take account of changing business cycles and to counter the fact that more people are fighting for the same personnel, will contribute to addressing the manpower challenges that have arisen. However, this is an area which, in the view of the Committee, must be subject to continuous attention. In the case of weapon systems and ammunition, the Committee takes the view that the main weapon systems on board the frigates are new target missiles, NSM, for surface warfare, Evolved Sea Sparrow missiles, ESSM, and Sting Ray light-weight turrets, to be used by both the frigates and the helicopters to be fed to the frigates at a later stage. In 2007, the Storting decided to acquire new target missiles, and after several years of delay, missiles are now in place and integration in the final phase. Lightweight torso to be fed to the frigates and helicopters have now been delivered and the delivery project is scheduled to be completed in 2017. During the inspection of Haacon protection, the Committee was made aware of problems with some types of ammunition for the OTO Melara cannon, for which an initial stock was previously acquired. At the same time, it was informed that work has been started on solving these problems. Later updates from the Ministry have shown that this work is in line with the planned plan, and the Committee considers that the problems of this ammunition will be solved in the course of the ongoing work. Then move to helicopter capacity. The Committee points out that helicopters are an important resource to combat submarines beyond which the frigate can cope on its own with its on-board systems. Initially, helicopters would have been delivered simultaneously with the delivery of the first frigates in the period 2005-2008, but they are significantly delayed by the supplier. The Committee has noted that the absence of helicopter capacity on board has significantly impaired the frigate's ability to detect and combat submarines and that it is still unclear when the helicopters will be in place on the frigates with the configuration they will have. According to the current plan, helicopters will only operate in 2021. Although it is numerically fixed in the plan for a year when the helicopters are operational, the Committee finds it unsatisfactory that there is still uncertainty as to whether and when such an important capacity for the operational capability of the frigates can be provided. During the hearing on 24 February 2017, Chief of Defense Haakon Bruun-Hanssen stated that he did not see any ‘light’ in the tunnel regarding the delivery of the ordered helicopters. The Committee takes this as a strong signal that it is most uncertain when – or whether – the defence is at all given the helicopter capacity of the frigates envisaged by the Storting. The Committee points out that the issue of assessing the contract with the helicopter supplier and, where appropriate, its termination has been considered on a number of occasions, by 2016 at the latest, in the context of the annual statement made by the Minister of Defence to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee as part of the budgetary process on the Stortinget. The Committee understands that the situation is demanding but expects the issue of assessment of the contract to be considered on an ongoing basis. Nine years have passed since the helicopters should have been delivered, without there being any final clarification as to when operational helicopters can be delivered. The Committee is aware that it is a relatively demanding exercise to take any decision on cancellation, as it may result in additional delays and operational disadvantages to acquire other helicopters for the frigates. The Committee also refers to what the Council of State said during the hearing: ‘there is therefore no guarantee that any replacement helicopter will provide faster and better operational capability.’ [[...]] Furthermore, the Council of State stated that the Ministry ‘makes continuous assessments of this, because it is clear that if we still do not get what we have ordered, we need to make new assessments’. In the view of the Committee, it is appropriate to clarify whether and when the Defence may receive the new frigate helicopters at no additional cost and without further delay. On this basis, the Committee has considered that the following proposals for decisions should be presented: ‘The Government requests the Government to review the contract for the acquisition of helicopter NH90 to the frigates and to communicate the outcome to the Stortinge, including the expected propulsion of the helicopter delivery.’ I expect the Minister of Defence to comment on this in his intervention at the end of the debate. As regards reporting to the Ministry, the Committee points out that the Riksrevision concludes that there is a significant weakness in the lack of uniform conceptual use of the Ministry of Defence and Defence in the reporting of the status of the frigates. The Force Report contains many of the same factors as the Force Register, but is adapted to the Marine Defense’s need for strength production. The Chief of Defence therefore assumes that the Riksrevision has mixed these systems, and thus concluded that different concepts and different reporting are being used upwards in the system, and therefore does not fully share the Riksrevision conclusion in this area. The Committee also refers to what the former head of defence, General Sunde, said in his opening speech, that the understanding of reality ‘on operational capability is as it has actually been reported upwards through the line, from the Maritime Defence, through the Defence Staff and to the Ministry’, and that the picture of reality communicated ‘formed the basis of the Ministry’s governance of Defence’. The Committee also refers to the former Chief of Defence Sverre This said during the hearing: “I have to say that I am a little surprised that this is perceived as a problem, not because I have thought a lot about it, but because I have never learned that this has caused any problems in communication with the department.” The Committee takes the view that both the Ministry of Defence and the Stortinget have received and will receive accurate information on the operational capability of the Defence in general and the frigates in particular, as one of the main arms of the Defence. In conclusion, the Committee points out that the recently adopted long-term defence sector plan provides for a significant increase in the operational capacity of the defence. This includes, inter alia: prioritisation of spare parts, maintenance and emergency stock, providing increased availability and stamina. Sea defence today has four manned frigates sailing, of which three frigates have crews who have been through and certified by Flag Officer Sea Training, FOST, in the United Kingdom. The fourth frigate is in the forefront of certification at FOST during 2017. In addition, the fifth frigate has a maintenance crew to be made permanent by the end of 2020. The challenges that the frigate weapon had a few years ago are now history. When we put the new helicopters in place, we get the frigate weapon that we wanted and planned from the start. This is a matter of great satisfaction to the Committee. I would therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1149	The frigates play a key role in resolving Defence's tasks in military conflicts and wars. The frigates shall be able to frighten and fight submarines, but also have a certain ability to defend against other vessels and aircraft. The frigate weapon is the backbone of the Maritime Defense and, with an integrated helicopter capacity, will be a very flexible unit, with great potential both nationally and internationally. That was the order. All in all, the defense has spent more than 19 billion dollars. kr on the frigates. Then we get the report from the Riksrevision. He concludes that the frigates do not have the accumulated operational assets that the Storting has foreseen. There are weaknesses in the technical state and the situation of personnel and competence is challenging. The situation varies between vessels, but there are weaknesses in all vessels. The frigates should also be equipped with NH90 helicopters. They will first be in place on the ship at the end of 2021, more than ten years late. This means that the vessel for a large part of its life span will be without one of its most important capacities. Lack of access to key spare parts, lack of management and planning for the purchase of spare parts, 'cannibalisation' between ships — the report of the National Audit Office is very serious. For this reason, the committee has also worked very hard on this setting, and I would like to thank the case-speaker, Thorheim, for very good work on the matter. We've been to Haakonsvern on sight of a frigate, and we've had a lot of hearing on the matter. It is that after the report came, a lot has actually happened, and the status of the frigates is much better now. But it's a little surprising that it only happens when there's a report from the National Audit Office. As you can see from the setting, the Committee is a few things about much, but there are some different comments on some points. The majority and the defense say that Stortinget has not allowed enough, and that is why the situation is ours as he is. It's unfortunate, I think, that they write it instead of looking at the realities and what actually is. We in the Labour Party see our comment, which is also in common with us, where we see that the Riksrevision believes it is critical that the Ministry of Defence does not have an adequate balance between missions and available resources in the Defence, as the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee has stated. We also stress that the Stortinget is a running authority, and that the government – including the Ministry of Defence – adheres to the promises of the majority of the population. We also believe that the former Chief of Defense, General Dennen mein régionale, is the consequence of conscious choices and priorities made in the Ministry of Defence. He also said in his hearing that there is ‘a tendency in defence until I do not want to say deliberately underestimation, but we are going to say to put on a more cautious estimate than you might have, precisely because you have been very concerned about completing the investment’. We are also in a comment together with the Christian People's Party, the Left and the SV where we underline the thorough work that the Riksrevision has done with this report, which they also do with all reports that are submitted to the Stortinget. We underline this because in the hearing, a little comment was made that the Riksrevision's work is not serious. For example, former Chief of Defense Harald Sunde said: ‘The one who knew – I can’t answer that. But there had been a significant risk that the Riksrevision could produce another report, criticising a large and useless spare part stock that tied large funds." We see it as very little fitting. Spare parts have ours and are a challenge for the frigates. This has led to the so-called cannibalization of frigates. This means that if you have missing parts on the one hand, one picks parts from the other frigates. And there's a serious situation, and already in 2010 a cannibalization started. I want to refer here to what the Riksrevision wrote about cannibalization, and we have taken note of this together with the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, SV and the Green Party. The Court of Auditors writes: ‘There are different perceptions of the causes of ‘cannibalisation’. The Ministry of Defence believes that the main reason for this is the lack of maintenance planning and the lack of management of spare parts acquisitions in the FLO. FLO Maritime capacity believes that, among other things, lack of spare parts is an important cause. [[MARKAP]] The National Audit Office believes that this disagreement can make it challenging to come up with a solution, and in any case both the Ministry of Defence and the Chief of Defence have a responsibility to resolve the situation that has arisen.» The majority is in agreement with the Riksrevision here. Furthermore, the National Audit Office writes that the organisation of the FLO should be adapted in accordance with the structural and organisational changes made in other parts of the Defence. However, the defense has little screened key functions in the FLO Savings Manager. What I think is the Riksaudition is critical, because it has led to a lack of capacity and competence in important support functions, which leads to a longer recovery and repair time, and that the procedures for registering parts are not complied with. And the weight of the data quality over the storage container leads, for example, to: that the frigate weapon acquires material outside the FLO. The National Audit Office also states here that ‘the challenges of spare part management are very serious’, and the majority agree here. During the hearing and on the sight, we have heard about obscure parts, production lines that have been closed, and that one cannot obtain spare parts. I have tried to investigate this with spare parts, because it is normal for suppliers who get contracts on such great, large projects to actually have a claim to supply spare parts. As a rule, 20-year functionality is equal or equivalent – sometimes for 30 years. When I have asked about this, both at Haakonsvern and in the earring, I get, among other things. This is the answer, and I quote Sverre This: ‘The second point of spare parts is that what you refer to is, of course, common practice in the case of passenger cars, television sets or whatever it may be, but military material is produced in such a way as to be limited to the number ordered.’ And so on -- I thought it was incredibly arrogant answers from the Defense on such an important topic, and I've checked with other suppliers of important defence equipment, who have confirmed that they have a right to deliver equal or corresponding functionality for a period of at least 20 years. This is not about oblivious equipment, it is actually about poor purchases. When it comes to the manning situation, it's better, and it's positive. I feel that what we have learned during the hearing is that the situation is now much better controlled, but in the committee we have written that we expect that the defence will facilitate schemes/measures that can mainly counteract fluctuating economic conditions in competing industries, so that one achieves the most possible stability. Then it's the NH90 entire vessel – which is more than ten years late. This means that the ship for a large part of its life span will be without one of its most important capacities. It's serious. We asked a lot about it in the hearing and were informed that the defence has proposed to terminate the contract, but that this was not taken into account in the department, i.e. one has not agreed with the department about it. And I asked the Chief of Defense, Bruun-Hanssen, during the hearing, why it's taking so long with the helicopters, and if the helicopters, when we get them, are going to work the way we have antagonized. Then he answers: ‘This is a cooperation project with a number of European nations to acquire a unit helicopter, a common helicopter. I don't think anyone saw in the acquisition decision to experience these kinds of challenges with a company like Airbus. When the challenges began to become clear and we saw that the delays increased when it came to the helicopter, and we got the first helicopter a number of years too late and with very many errors, it was the marine defense's clear view that we should terminate that contract and go in for an alternative, as Sunde referred to. This also reached an agreement on closeness, at least between the Maritime Defense and the Defence Manager, and it was promoted as a recommendation to the Department. But the conclusion was that the cost of terminating and acquiring an alternative was so high when you chose not to. We have also received no more than the first six helicopters, which are not fully operational. It's an initial solution, and we're still waiting for the helicopters to be operational." I also refer to the case-speaker's posts, especially in the case of helicopters, and here the entire committee agrees – we have a joint committee comment on that. There is a single committee behind the comments, and there is a single committee behind the proposal for a decision, which reads: ‘The Government requests the Government to review the contract for the acquisition of helicopter NH90 to the frigates and to communicate the outcome to the Stortinge, including the expected propulsion of the helicopter delivery.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1221	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for his thorough and good work on the matter. The National Audit Office's investigation reveals a serious situation and states that our maritime defense has had frigate weapons with lower operational capability than the Stortinget provided when the purchase was made. Together with a lag in maintenance and a weak back-up management, this situation has clearly contributed to weakening the operational capacity of the frigates. The fundamental reason why the frigates have had lower operational capacity than the Stortinget initially foreseen was that there has not been a good balance between the defence tasks as such and the Marines have been specifically assigned to them and the annual defence appropriations. The size has adopted a defence structure which has not been adequately funded. This misunderstanding has affected the frigate weapons. The National Audit Office's investigation highlights the lack of spare parts and long recovery times as a main problem, which has caused one to pick parts from one vessel for use on another vessel pending new parts. We have noticed that the report from the Riksrevision provided various explanations as to the reason for the lack of spare parts. Even though the explanations crack between the Ministry of Defence and the FLO, this is probably a situation in which one has not managed to plan well enough maintenance and management of FLO's spare part acquisitions, and a sometimes significant shortage of spare parts. In any case, this is a situation that – as the National Audit Office stresses – both the Ministry of Defence and the Chief of Defence have a responsibility to resolve. There has also been a reorganisation process in the FLO, which appears to have contributed to the weakening and savings of key functions in the back-up management, which has weakened capacity and competence in key support functions. The Christian People's Party supports the Riksrevision's criticism of these relationships, which has very likely led to a longer period of recovery and repairs than is necessary and thus a loss of the operational capabilities of the frigate weapon. A condition-based maintenance concept with an intentional saving of approx. 25 pst. was clearly based on unrealistic assumptions. This gain was simply not possible to take out. The aftermath of the maintenance on the frigates has led to a decrease in the operational capability of the frigate weapon and has led to an increase in the costs of preparation in the next round. The Christian People's Party has also noted and is pleased that a number of projects have been put in place to ensure adequate access to spare parts and ammunition for the frigates, while at the same time providing significant amounts to improve the spare part situation. On the basis of the last two years’ budgets, where significant funds have been allocated for enhanced maintenance in the maritime defence sector, as well as an upgrade to, inter alia: The weapons systems on the frigates, with the aim of achieving a maintenance mission by 2020, find the Christian People's Party to be very satisfactory with the measures it has now implemented. We have recorded that the manning and competence situation has sometimes been demanding. Some of the reasons why the defence sometimes loses key personnel are the economic situation in the industries that compete for the same competence, especially the oil and gas industry. A good cyclical situation will lead to increased demand for well-trained maritime personnel in shipping and offshore in general. On the other hand, maritime defence is an attractive workplace, and the economic situation is in the oil and gas industries. It will therefore become important in the future that the Defence provides for arrangements, measures, which can counteract cyclical fluctuations, in order to achieve maximum stability in the crew of the frigates, which are of central importance to the Defence. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Council of State that the measures already implemented will help to address the manpower challenges that have arisen. It has always been a prerequisite that the frigates should also have been equipped with helicopters — an essential and absolutely necessary resource to do the job in order to combat submarines. It was a clearly expressed premise that these should have been delivered at the same time as the delivery of the first frigates in the period 2005-2008. These have not been delivered under agreement. That is, they are delivered, but they cannot be used on board the frigates. The absence of helicopter capacity on board has clearly weakened the ability of the frigates to detect and control submarines, and the most serious thing is that it is still unclear about and when the helicopters will be in place on the frigates. There is no doubt that this has created a situation that is very little satisfactory. The Christian People's Party shares the concern about the situation that has arisen, and therefore efforts should be made to clarify whether and when the Defence can receive the new frigate helicopters without increased costs and additional delays. We therefore support the proposal made by the rapporteur on behalf of the Committee. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the rapporteur's good review of the Committee's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1253	Once again, the National Audit Office has done an important job and obtained facts in a good way. It's a very big thing. There have been many statements that have been interpreted in such a way that they did well. One learns then gradually, when one hears such statements, that one must be very precise about what is being said, for it turns out in this case, once again, that when the Riksrevision goes through it, those statements are not sufficient for what was the actual situation. The purchase of the five frigates was one of the largest defence investments we've had in the 21st century – to say it carefully – about 20 billion. kr. As a result, other investments in the Defence had to be prioritised, or that one could not have the crews and equipment and training needed in the Army and the Home Office. Thus, it was investments that were at the expense of other things, because it was so essential to invest in frigates with associated crews and associated sailing – which was necessary to get the necessary training and carry out the tasks that were said to be carried out when the investment was decided. It was a demanding debate around the millennial turn of the year. There were many critical voices. And the case should be thoroughly quality assured. At that time, I do not know if there were any such large investments that were so well-guaranteed, and it was assured that everything was well maintained here. It was assured repeatedly that everything was taken care of here. I remember the process very well, because there were many of us who had a strong suspicion that it was underfunded. I had a strong suspicion that many elements that were necessary in order for a ship to be sailed – linked to landing facilities, linked to weapon systems, related to something as simple as ammunition – were not included in the funding. It was rejected: Lundtigen, this is not the situation. This was quality assured, not only by one, but by several agencies, by the best agencies that were at the time – and certainly the best agencies even today, because I recognize the names of them as quality-secured then, they are still up-to-date. I have not seen that they have gone on their own and taken responsibility for the quality assurance they did, it turned out at least not to lead to the result that was intended. The result we are seeing today. It's not reliable. It's an unculture with underfinancing. This time it's the Maritime Defense, and it's very serious. It is, of course, the political responsibility that is constantly responsible for the underfinancing here. Any government council, any government is responsible for going into matters so thoroughly that one assures itself that this is financed as intended. It's not a responsibility that can be placed on a defense chief or a captain of the Marine Defense. As officials, they are only in a position to carry out what is happening at all times, within the limits they are given, and they are then in some demanding dilemmas. We know that this has been underfunded from 2000 to today. It has resulted that neither weapons systems, helicopters nor ammunition are as they should be. It doesn't work according to assumptions. Helicopters are not yet on board. One must not use and train the weapon systems as intended. One does not get the sailing days that are intended – what I think is the most serious. Yes, now it's on care, but it should have been on care for many, many years. It was said that it was sailing plans, sailing budgets like that, but it did not work. This was limed – yes, in other contexts one speaks of calcining graves, it is quite close to using that term also in this context – by those who were responsible. One had not come up with what was the whole truth. Parts of the truth certainly came out, but not the whole truth, so that people could understand the consequences of what we're talking about here. The report from the National Audit Office – as it presents it – is, to the extent that it is the biggest investment scandal in which I understand, in the 2000s in defence. The Committee's comments are therefore cautious. But they're serious, and, not least, they're unanimous. The question will then be whether the sub-financing shown by this case will continue in the future, for example. in the case of future air purchases. I'm far from safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1274	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for a good and thorough discussion and the rapporteur for a good statement on the back cover. The National Audit Board has examined the operational capacity of the frigates in the period 2013 to 2014/2015. It was to see if the Defense has established a frigate weapon as provided by the Stortinget. The report gives a good picture of the situation during the investigation period, but is not representative of the current situation, as several have mentioned here. In this respect, I would like to say that, in the dialogue with the Committee, I also feel that the Committee was given a good picture of the current situation during the inspection of Haakonsvern last November. The open hearing, which took place in February, also helped, in my opinion, to shed light on the situation in a good way. I also think the setting makes it visible well. The government is very concerned that the defence should have the ability to solve its mission. It is also reflected in the priorities of the government. The adopted long-term plan provides for a significant strengthening of the operational capabilities of the Defence Agency, in addition to building new capacities. The broad consensus of the Stortinget on the mechanism for the further development of the defence sector underpins this. In particular, in the last two years' budgets, the maintenance of maritime defence vessels has been a priority. The fact that the situation today is different from that at the time of the audit is the result of a deliberate prioritisation. It is important to point out that the frigates have had operational deliveries and have completed their mission from the time they were delivered. The frigates have shown their relevance by contributing to several types of operations with different capacities, from anti-pirate operations to ensuring the transport of chemical weapons from Syria. We have also sailed for two periods as a command ship for NATO's standing maritime forces. Throughout 2017, there is a Norwegian frigate who is in charge of NATO's standing maritime forces, as we did in the period 2013–2014. KNM ‘Roald Amundsen’, which is currently the vessel designated as a navigating vessel, has had high operational availability and has been highly operationally safe. Around summer time, KNM ‘Otto Sverdrup’ shall take over the task from KNM ‘Roald Amundsen’. The capability of the peace thief Nansen class is quality assured through NATO's most recognised certification programme, in the United Kingdom, with very good results. Sharp shooting with the main weapons, anti-air missiles, ESSM, and anti-surface missiles, NSM, have produced very good results. A number of the conditions of the National Audit Office point to the frigates have been known. This applies significantly to the situation The size of the population is also well known, and where measures have already been taken. It is important to stress that the frigates today meet 174 out of 187 performance requirements that were set by the frigate project in its time. Of the remaining 13 requirements, 5 are related to the vessel. For these, technical solutions and improvements have been found, which are already under way. The remaining eight requirements are related to areas that can only be verified when the helicopter is in place. I'm going to mention the NH90 a little later in the article. Let me first say something about spare parts and spare parts management. In the case of spare parts, an initial inventory was acquired to cover the first years of operation. It was to avoid the purchase of parts that later turned out not to be necessary. As the committee points out in the setting, these were the experiences when the Oslo class of frigates was phased out. After the initial acquisition of spare parts, it is the defence that defines the level of ambition for the acquisition of spare parts according to its needs and experience and is charged to the operating budget for the withdrawal of parts. This enables the Defence Logistics Organisation to reacquire the parts. So-called cannibalisation – which many people have been in today – is actually a system that is quite common to use, where parts of the vessel that are inside for main maintenance are loaned over to another vessel. The reason for this practice is often that spare parts have a long spare life and, not least, that there is a need for experience prior to the acquisition of spare parts for storage. However, this practice presupposes that the current part, which is then borrowed, is immediately placed in the order as compensation for the ship from which it was borrowed. However, the back-up management has not functioned optimally. The scope and severity of the so-called cannibalisation were first reported by the Defence in 2014, after the second main maintenance of the frigates. Then the defense and the department immediately started action. The government strengthened the Maritime Defence budget as early as 2014. A maintenance and supply study was carried out and a project idea for the acquisition of spare parts was addressed. This is the project referred to in the option – at 420 million. SEK, of which 350 million. Priority should be given to frigates. A major agreement was also reached with the Kongsberg Defence System in 2016 – 313 million. DKK over four years for upgrading combat systems and active sonar. The Ministry of Defence follows up the administration of the reserve parts in the meeting with the Defence and Defence Administration. In addition, several organisational measures have been put in place to improve the situation. This is also expected to produce effects in the future. The setting describes the maintenance seat suspension and the measures in a good manner. However, it is important to emphasise that the adopted long-term plan does not only provide for the slowdown – which is to be introduced in 2020 – it also strengthens the operational budgets, so that the annual additional need for maintenance resources, as generated by the 2014 maintenance and supply study, is met. Of the 425 million. kr extra to Sea defence in the 2017 budget is 205 million. a sustained increase in the level of ship maintenance appropriations. This is absolutely essential, so that we do not get into a situation where backlogs are rebuilt again. In addition, the government has taken into account the cost growth experienced in the defence sector. This is the first time this is being taken care of, and it has already been included in the 2017 budget. This is done to prevent the annual loss of purchasing power by the defence sector and thereby lower operating conditions. It shall ensure increased availability and endurance through a clear prioritisation of maintenance, spare parts and emergency stocks. It is a multiannual commitment. A significant proportion of maintenance tasks will be carried out by Norwegian suppliers in experience. Both of the measures mentioned here are both to strengthen the operational budgets in order to avoid maintenance, so that there is no build-up, and that the government has introduced the cost increase, which is very important for one of the points pointed out by the National Audit Office, namely to create a balance between tasks and the economy. The appropriation granted in 2016 was 301.5 million. kr, provided the Marine Defense Handling Room with respect to both operation and maintenance. It was a completely necessary and proper priority. The result of this, which was briefed during the inspection in Bergen on 10 November, was that the vessels should not cancel sailing due to technical condition. The defence's annual report shows, however, that the frigates sailed more than planned in 2016. In addition, the Chief Maritime Defense itself has carried out extensive work within its own mandates and converted posts from land organisation to maritime service. This means that, from 1 August of last year, the Naval Defense could sail with up to four frigates simultaneously and that the fifth vessel has a maintenance crew for the time being. The establishment of a complete fifth crew will be carried out through the adopted long-term plan. So it's an ambitious increase from Storting's previously adopted operating concept. So to the NH90 helicopters. The supplier delays in the NH90 project and the delivery of maritime helicopters are well known. The size has been updated through the annual budget proposals, for the first time in St.prp. No 1 for 2005-2006. In 2012, the defense was given the task of carrying out an assessment in view of the possible termination of the NH90 contract and the acquisition of an alternative helicopter to meet the defence needs. The clear recommendation of the defense was not to terminate the NH90 contract – not as the representative Eldegard said, that there was a clear call for termination. We were also in the hearings. The background was that terminating the contract and acquiring alternative helicopters also had disadvantages. The Ministry of Defence therefore decided to continue the contract. However, we see – now that we have received the first six helicopters – that the NH90 is technically complex and requires more resources for operation and maintenance than foreseen. The government has therefore already allocated 51 million for the 2017 budget. kr extra for the purchase of external maintenance services to keep the helicopter operational. As I said at the hearing, there are no simple solutions to the challenge created by these supplier delays. It has not been given that the cancellation of the contract results in a faster and better operational capability with replacement helicopters. The NH90 supply is initially given priority to the Coast Guard. It was a decision – which was made in 2008 – to divide the delivery into two, first to the Coast Guard, a so-called initial capacity, then to the frigate helicopters, which come in so-called final version, and then you have to make final configuration on the first helicopters. The last vessel in the North Cape class was technically approved for helicopter in March. Extensive testing is carried out with helicopters on board vessels. Both KV ‘Nordkap’ and KV ‘Andenes’ have been cleared for helicopter operations during the spring and KV ‘Senja’ is scheduled to be cleared 2nd quarter of this year. This does not mean that the coastguard vessels operate permanently with helicopters on board but may have helicopters on board for operations when needed. The frigates are planned to be completed for NH90 operations from 2018 to 2019. On the ‘Andenes’ KV, helicopters were on board from 28 April to 8 May and 60 landings were made with helicopters on the vessel. This is a positive step in the right direction, but we await the feedback from these ongoing processes. In the setting there is also a proposal for a decision that the government will return to Stortinget with both an update and an assessment of both the contract and the phase-in of the helicopters. This is a process that – as I informed you in the hearing – we are doing on an ongoing basis. Towards the summer, the Armed Forces team, together with the Armed Forces, comes to make the assessments that are now based on the experience of testing the NH90 on board. This means that we are going to assess all aspects from the department, including: the new maintenance dimension and its implications for flight hours, maintenance costs, operations, etc. As I have discussed in several contexts, we cannot rule out that it means termination of the contract. It is too early to say anything about it yet, but we must – as I was in the hearing – also be aware that it does not mean that we have other helicopters available immediately, which will be able to solve the missions. This is a relatively complex matter, but we make these assessments continuously — and come back to Stortinget with the result of those assessments. We have a expectation that the measures taken in this field, in addition to the other areas I have mentioned, will continue to have the desired effect. Not least in the implementation of the long-term plan, the Ministry of Defence will continue to have this as an important part of the establishment management of the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1329	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1334	As the Council of State has noted, there is disagreement in the Committee on the reason why the frigate situation has been so. I refer to what I said in my post, that we in the Labour Party have a comment together with SV where we think that ‘The Court of Auditors considers it critical that the Ministry of Defence has not sufficiently ensured a balance between missions and available resources in the Defence as provided for by the Foreign and Defence Committee. These members will point out that the Storting is the granting authority, and the government, including the Ministry of Defence, must deal with the appropriations decided by the majority of the Stortinge.’» [[...]] What about the Minister of Defense? Who is responsible for the situation as he has?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1344	I was involved in the hearing, and it is also reflected in the setting, that for many years it was under-financing the operation of the frigates, and then it includes maintenance and, to the extent, the acquisition of spare parts. The concept chosen was also clearly highlighted in the hearing and why the situation was as it was. I can only answer for the period I have been sitting as State Council. We immediately decided that this, both the maintenance concept and the operating concept, was more expensive than we intended, to give additional money to the Maritime Defense Agency in order to handle it. We've been doing that all over the time, with some large sums. It is also what has now begun to produce results, along with the fact that, in my opinion, the Maritime Defense has done its very wise judgements and priorities by moving personnel from the land organisations and to the ship, so that we have several operational crews.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1351	Thanks for the answer. I only have one more question. It's up to you to clarify a misunderstanding -- I don't know if it was a misunderstanding. In my post I referred Haakon Bruun-Hanssen, who said that it was – and I quote: «The marine defence's clear belief that we should terminate that contract and enter into an alternative; [[...]] So we went on to say that the department hadn't started. So you're saying the head of defense was wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1361	It is possible that I perceived some of the questions about Eldegard's fault when she spoke, because what I noticed was that the representative said that the defense proposed to terminate the contract in 2012. I'm not sitting on any information that would suggest that the defense, then by the time Defense Chief Harald Sunde, proposed to the Department to terminate the contract. On the contrary, they considered that the option that was then applicable, namely Seahawk, was not acceptable for the defence. Therefore, the department’s assessment was that there was no alternative at that time. And there's a difference between what the Naval Defense and the Defense Chief might think, because it's the Defence Chief and the Defence Staff that make a recommendation to the Department. What's important to emphasize in that context, and the representative was also involved, is that doing the assessments today, some years later, can lead to results other than that at the time, and that's precisely because we have to assess what we're getting now from surgery versus what we've ordered and paid for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1375	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1380	I would also like to start by thanking both the rapporteur and the entire committee for the extensive work that this matter has done. We've been dealing with it in the Committee on Control and Constitution for a long time, and the comments and debate here are low, but of course they have a serious content, because it's a very serious issue that the Storting is now dealing with. It is one of the biggest issues – probably, I might say – that the Storting is dealing with here today, for the control committee. I refer, of course, to Mr Eldegard's post and of course I agree with everything she has said on this point. I'd like to say one thing that I know is not quite common to say from the Storting Speech, but I'm asking that it be perceived positively. Of course, I fully understand that it is the Council of States that is responsible for everything that is happening in the defence sector, towards Stortinget – of course it is. But – I say it this way, and it should be seen positively – it would have done nothing about the defence management and the Marine's leadership had been present in the Stortinget today and listened to when such an important matter, which concerns them so directly, is debated. It wouldn't have done anything. It would have been good for them. It is possible that they do so in another way, but it would have been good for the Storting too if we had had certainty that they would really follow up on the debate, which is caused by things for which they have direct responsibility, even though it is the Council of State that is parliamentaryly responsible. I'll say it that way. I would like to underline something implicit in what has been said in my colleagues' speeches here, and it is that in the consideration of this matter there is no defence management, no maritime management and a long way on the way, nor did the department say that the Riksrevision report is crazy. I see that the Council of State confirms with her body language that she agrees with it. That's fine, because then we have a common starting point. That means that what the Riksrevision has pointed out is correct, and the Marine Management said, to the Committee, that they were relieved that this report had come, because then they had documented what they had also meant for very many years. When I say it that way, it's because I want to take up a page by this that I think it's necessary to point out. Let me start with the helicopters as well: Now the Council of State says that it has not been given that analysing the contract that is now available will provide a better solution. No, she can. I have very much respect for the complexity of the question relating to the helicopters, but it is in a way not what is going on, because when the Storting decided in its time to buy the frigates, there was not one institution that said this was going to be a problem. I think that is an important aspect of this matter. This does not concern the Stortinget, but I was Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence at the time it started. It's now over 20 years ago, and then no one ever warned that this was going to be a problem. But now we're probably not going to get a helicopter until what's meant to be half of the frigates' lifetime, is gone. Then I ask the question, is there no one who can take responsibility for this in Norwegian society? Is there no one taking it inward? Is it not possible to talk about it in a different way than by referring to many bureaucratic formulations about how complicated this is, as we all realize it is? But the Stortinget has now made a decision on the construction of the frigates and made a decision that we should have helicopters. The defense itself says this is a prerequisite for the operation of the frigates and a prerequisite for them to fulfil the purpose that the Stortinget has decided to justify the purchase and implementation of the frigates in the Norwegian Navy – and then round the round. I understand and respect that there's a chance that I'm fooling myself out. It's not that big, but it's a chance. But I take the chance at that chance, to say it like that, because I wonder why it has suddenly become so difficult for the Norwegian Navy to manage to get the helicopter that serves them, when there are such helicopters around the world. I don't understand. It's this that's a mentality in the planning of the defense, and that someone each should take over, because it's not the only example that it goes wrong. It is not the only example – unfortunately it is not. I reminded myself, when I was sitting and thinking about this before I went up here on the platform, that we had a big case about the defense – which I'm not going to bring up here again now – that had to do with the sale of boats to Nigeria. They were upgraded for 2 billion. kr in advance of their sale to Nigeria. How can that happen? This should be taken over by the Department, but also by the Defence Management — in this case the Marine Management. If someone now has good technical and actual arguments that it's so hard to get helicopters on our frigates, I'm going to bend for it. I underline it. But those arguments I haven't heard yet. You just continue the discussion about what kind of helicopter you're going to have, as the years go by and you tell us – if I'm going to stick to the professional military language – that the boats are not operational, because you don't have helicopters. This side of the case, I think it's very important to be stressed here in the main hall, because we elected people are offered the advice we get in such technical and professional contexts as this, and we rely on them. When they're not sustainable, someone has to take it in. But my problem is that it doesn't seem to happen – apparently – except that they say that they agree with the Riksrevision report. I do not want this debate to end until I have been told just this. When we work on this in the control committee over so long, we don't just do it because we want to. It is in order to ensure the level, content and seriousness of the decisions taken by the Storting. Then, of course, it is the matter that has been dealt with, but which I will also stress, and which is linked to this claim: The reason why this situation has arisen is that the Storting grants too little money. It doesn't matter what you mean -- it's neither principle nor constitutional. And then I'm back to this point: nobody said, when you went in for the purchases and the establishment of the frigates as an animal, necessary and important part of our marine, that it would lead to us getting so little money on all the other fronts, that we would have a situation with the frigates that made them unable to sail as they were supposed to. No one said that! So I think that's a derailment, Councillor. And here we are in complete disagreement in the committee – it is clear from the comments – because I do not believe that anyone in the Storting should think that that is the reason. Then you get to say, well, if we get this, it'll be so expensive that we have to take other things off. But no one has ever said that. And then we're back to what I'm saying all the time, whether the advice and systems we get in many ways, but often from the Defense: I wonder when the Defense will – and I almost think this is about the Defense more than the Defence Ministry – perceive this and understand that it's serious, and that they can't claim orders and money if it's not coverage for it within the defence structure that they think they're defending themselves. I can't. This is what I believe is at the heart of the matter, in a sense. It's very good, what the Council of State has explained – I stress it before I go down from here – and she says it's right. The Committee and the European Parliament are pleased that this has now been resolved. But, as the representative Eldegard also said, it is well done that one took hold of this when the Riksrevision began to show what the weaknesses were. It is also a problem for me that you do not discover this yourself, until the Riksrevision points to it and comes to Stortinget with it. This is a cultural issue that I think is very important that everyone with responsibility takes over. I say this in so far clear forms, but in the best sense, considering that we're going to have a good defense, and of course considering that those who are there are doing a good job. I mean nothing else. But these aspects of the case I thought it was necessary to underline.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1401	I'm not going to extend the debate a lot, but just answer some concrete things that came right at the end. One is that it should be a prerequisite for the operation of the frigates that they have helicopters. It is not, but it is an essential part of the operational capability of the frigates, particularly related to the ability to operate anti-submarine operations. But it is essential to stress, as I was also in my post, that the frigates have – and have – very much operational capability. This has been demonstrated both in domestic operations and in demanding international operations, and it has been carried out by the Maritime Defence Agency with a high degree of competence on the basis of the assumptions made in the various operations. I very much agree with the point that has been made in the past, namely that you have to find ways to deal with both the spare part and the maintenance situation, which means that you do not get into the kind of similar situations. One of the most important things that is happening in this area now is that we are increasingly – especially for new systems – moving to so-called PBL, or Performance-Based Logistics. In short, it means that we are part of the global spare part stock, which in turn means that this so-called redundancy period, or the lead time, is shorter. We order an availability from the supplier, more than one spare part, and that means that the supplier is given a greater responsibility to keep the capacity available. It's important. There is also one thing that has done – when we decided to acquire new submarines together with Germany – that we also enter into a common spare part stock and maintenance, which makes this easier. I disagree, as I was also involved in my speech, with both the committee chairman and the representative, Eldegard, that relations with the operational capacity of the frigates were taken into account when the Riksrevision presented its report. That's not right. As I was inside, this was one of the very first things I got hold of when the defense came with its report on the maintenance situation in 2014, and immediately allocated more money to handle the situation. As early as 2009, action was taken to improve the staffing and staffing situation. These are relationships that have been known for a long time, and therefore it has also been important, at least in my time, to get to what we've been familiar with, and do it immediately to improve that situation. I believe that we too have made that clear in a good way. So to the last point, related to NH90 helicopters: it was in no way intended to formulate me bureaucratically, but I rather believe – on the contrary – that there are many operational reasons why it is complicated to terminate the contract now and replace it with other helicopters. As I said, I don't rule out that it's still an opportunity. But at the same time, I would like to stress that if we have now received the helicopters, which we had not done at the previous crossroads, in 2012, when this was assessed, it is now to introduce a fourth helicopter type into the Defence – while operational testing and evaluating the NH90, with new rescue helicopters, and we still have our Bell helicopters – a very demanding operation. At the same time, we still have Sea King in operation, so it's actually going to be five helicopter types. This is exceptionally demanding for the Defense to be able to do in a good way, and it is therefore not given that we get faster and better operationality from it, even if it may seem like a captivating thought. But once again, if the evaluations and the results show that it is the only dangerous way to go, then of course it is an assessment that we have to take. It is also important to stress that helicopters intended to operate under Norwegian conditions must have any devices other than helicopters such as: to operate elsewhere in Europe. There is also one reason why the NH90 can now be found in more than 20 configurations. It's in itself a challenge and something that helps to make this problem bigger. But we also need to take that into account when assessing any replacement helicopters or other capacities that could help solve the challenge that the helicopters were supposed to solve. I would also like to add that the question related to the NH90 is not unique in Norwegian: all countries that have acquired the NH90 have encountered major or minor problems – with delays, with maintenance, that the number of flight hours you have calculated is not the number of flight hours you can use, etc. We have tried by the government to resolve the problems as well as possible, especially in connection with the fact that in 2017 we also put on an additional allocation to maintain the helicopters, because they require more maintenance than you saw. And also that of course we have intensified the dialogue with the supplier, and the supplier is very well aware of our position in this, and we are trying to get the supplier to deliver at first. One thing is the helicopters as such, another thing is availability and operationality. But if it turns out after the evaluation that it doesn't work, of course, it's something that's subject to a new government review.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1418	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1434	This case concerns the submission by the Ombudsman’s defence department of the activities from 1 January to 31. This appropriation is intended to cover The Ombudsman’s defence title shall, following the instructions adopted by the Grand Duchy of Great Britain, contribute to ensuring the general human rights of the defence personnel. The activities of the Ombudsman shall also contribute to the effectiveness of defence. As part of its work, the Ombudsman also carried out inspections in 2016, and it was at the following facilities: Bodø Main Aviation Station Defence Operational Headquarters, Retan near Bodø Joint Warfare Center, Yåttå near Stavanger Brigade Nord, Setermoen in Bardu and Heggelia and Skjold in Gålselv Border garrison South Varanger The Committee has noted that the Ombudsman’s views in 2016 have been very positive. There is, according to the denominator, good leadership with clear attitudes, and it is a great willingness to work and mainly a good working environment. It also reports that the quality of vulnerable crews is very good. The Committee for its part considers this to be reassuring. In 2016, Defence conducted a staff survey, the main theme of which was leadership and culture for continuous improvement. The relatively high cuts in balanced conduct of management must be interpreted positively, and this also applies to the relatively low cuts in passive and negative conduct of management. The Committee is very pleased that the study indicates a consistently positive impression of the leadership situation in the Defence. The Ombudsman’s topic for 2015 and 2016 has highlighted various issues in the implementation of the general protection obligation. The Committee is pleased that considerable efforts are being made to address the problems, but notes that there is still a lot of work to be done before the adaptation to the general protection obligation is in place everywhere. In particular, there are two points where the Committee notes that the general obligation of protection has created problems. One is the adaptation of personal clothing and equipment to women, where there are still significant gaps. This is primarily about adapting equipment to women, who consistently have an anatomy different from that of men. Another important area is to adapt the barracks to both sexes. With limited resources, it may seem that delays in maintenance and new adaptations will take time. The Committee has noted here that the Ministry of Defence, in its long-term plan, has called for all barracks to be adapted to the general protection obligation by 2020, and the Committee welcomes this. The Ombudsman is concerned that the status and reputation of the defence over time are weakened by the fact that the defence operates in fewer locations now than in the past. At the same time, only a small proportion of the annual coals implement the protection obligation. This also concerns the Committee. Problems in obtaining an acceptable treatment period for the safety clearance of personnel have been a repetition of both the Ombudsman’s topic and the EOS Committee over several years. It is gratifying that the Ombudsman is now experiencing a significant reduction in the length of the procedure. It is recorded that the average processing time for requests for clearances has decreased from 9.6 weeks in 2015 to 6.4 weeks in 2016. The Committee welcomes this development. Since the statistics measure average times, the Committee assumes that further work is carried out on measures entailing a processing period which is considered acceptable to all those having their own matters for consideration. The Committee notes that the Ombudsman notes that the trust regime for the guardians is working very well, and that the system over time has resulted in an ever better service for the guardians. The Committee notes that the number of complaints is relatively constant and that the proportion where the complainant is fully or partially supported is stable at around 10 %. 25 pst. Most of the complaints are handled by the Ombudsman to the Director, who is a lawyer. The defense is the largest apprenticeship in Norway, and by the end of 2016 there were 578 apprentices divided into 31 apprenticeships. The number of apprentices is stable high, with a female share of 26 pst. The Committee is very pleased that the defence takes responsibility by offering a relatively high number of apprenticeships, especially in times when there has been a decline in business in parts of the country. An important area that has been the focus of the Ombudsman in the past has been the care of our veterans, both in service and not least after the end of service. At the beginning of the current ageing period, the Ombudsman reported various and, in part, serious deficiencies in the supervision of the veterans. During the oral presentation to the Committee by the Ombudsman of Documents 5 for 2016-2017, questions were asked by the Committee on the general status of veterinary services now. According to the Ombudsman, there has been a lot on this front in recent years, and the Ombudsman would particularly highlight the following: Society has become more aware of the importance of the efforts of our veterans for Norway. Many municipalities have established places for veterans in their municipality on the day of liberation and veto. The competence of the Nav and the social department of the municipalities is significantly strengthened in the field of assistance to veterans. The defence has established a dedicated centre of expertise at Elverum, where veterans can seek special assistance. The Committee is very pleased that the work on improving the conservation of veterans in recent years has given positive results to the veterans in general and to the individual concerned. I would recommend the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1495	Here is a matter on which the committee is gathered, and we have common comments on everything. So I actually see the case spokesman's posts, but I just want to have a few comments as well. Ombodsmannsnämndna för Forsvaret has provided an annual report for 2016. It's very positive here, and it's nice. It's said to be good leadership, it's said to be good work environment and a lot of willingness to work. The quality of the vulnerable crews is good. There are nice feedback. But it's – and we've talked about it before in our committee – a big maintenance run on property, construction and installations. It's a challenge, and there's a lot of variation, it says in the report. There's a challenge. I found it very positive that they in the report now come back to matters from the year before that were in a way not completely resolved last year, and they mention it in the report. Then they write about the general duty of protection. What's good about what they're writing there is that the girls are doing well in the first-time service, but there's a big lack in the closets and on the PBU – it means dress and stuff like that – it's not custom. Then I think that once we have imposed a general duty of protection and it's going so well, why not just solve these simple problems with the barracks and with the clothes, so that it's custom for the girls to come in, so that the girls continue to thrive, and so that they'll be in the military? I also want to say: it says about teaching places, which are the case-speakers. I found it positive, and I have – in addition to the report here – a lot of good feedback on it. The learning places and the responsibility that the defense takes for expanding our youth, I see as a very positive and important work that must continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1510	I would like to thank the Ombudsman and the Committee for both a good report and a good attitude. 2016 was a brand year for the Defense. In July and August, the first annual coal covered by the general duty of protection met for initial service. 26.9 pst. of the fronted were women. Total of those who met for the first time in 2016 was 21 pst. women – versus 16 pst. in 2015. It's a solid increase, and we expect it to continue. We also see that the drop-out rate is lower among women than among men. The positive impression is underpinned by the year’s study on protection, which shows that the initial service is highly valued among both sexes, and that a large majority would also serve the service if it was voluntary. Most happily it is nevertheless that nine out of ten women say that they thrive well. An increasing number of women respond that they would recommend first-time services to women, and this shows that we have succeeded to a large extent in facilitating both women and men by introducing a general duty of protection. I also experience a lot of activity from my colleagues in other countries who want to look at the system we have put in place. Those countries that have not had a protective duty for a while and now reintroduce it, look to us to look at the possibility of doing the general thing that we have done. The data for bullying and sexual harassment are lower than in the past. Nevertheless, some women and some men still experience sexual harassment in the ministry. Bullying is still happening. The defense has zero tolerance for bullying and sexual harassment, and the work done continues with full strength. We see that the targeted work produces results. The defense also believes that women and men live together in neighborhoods and work closely together, in itself giving a positive effect. Thus, the prediction that more women in the defense would mean more friction or more conflict has not been proven to be true to the point – on the contrary. I am pleased that the Ombudsman reports that the introduction of the general protection obligation is well managed in the Defence. The defense has done a good job preparing the departments. The departments shall be prepared to accept both male and female guardians. Like the committee and the committee, I would nevertheless like to point out two areas where there is still work to be done. This applies to personal clothing and equipment and the standard of barracks adapted to both sexes. Here it's in place to remember that women in the defense are nothing new. We've had women in Defense for almost every year and have been far ahead for many years also in terms of women's share. But it's clear that we're now getting even more, which is crazy and very happy. In this respect, the adaptation, in particular with regard to the standard of barracks and to personal clothing and equipment, must also be kept in check. Older building masses and varying standards remain a challenge in some areas of defence. There has been increased efforts to improve living conditions for the soldiers since 2011. The defence identifies and assesses ongoing needs related to cashierships, sanitary conditions and other relevant facilities. Priority will be given to the garrisons that need the most upgrade. The Ombudsman learns that Defence Buildings possess sound competence and a good overview of the needs for new buildings, renovations and immediate action. The Committee also notes that many new barracks are being built and that the Committee is pleased that considerable work is being done in this area. This work is very important, and it's going to continue. The new barracks being built provide greater flexibility and better conditions for all those subject to protection. I would also like to mention that major investment measures have recently been implemented on both Huseby and Madla to facilitate general protection obligations. For example, Huseby has Today practical shower solutions with one shower per outlet, which can be used by both sexes. In 2017, specific funds have also been allocated to projects that can rapidly improve living and sanitary conditions, so that the barracks are equal and adapted to both sexes. I note that the Committee takes note in its vote that the Ministry of Defence has requested in the long-term plan that all cases be adapted to the general protection obligation by 2020. It is important to clarify that it is not defined as an objective in the long-term plan, but there is a requirement that the Department has made to the defence sector in the annual letter of implementation, so it is made concrete there. I can assure you that the department will follow the work of improving living and sanitary conditions for those under protection, and assume that the defence will make local adjustments and improvements where necessary. The Ombudsman’s subject addressed both in 2014 and 2015 criticism of excessive processing times in the area of security clearance. In the report of the year, it is noted that the process period has improved considerably from previous years. The Committee recommends that the average duration of treatment for requests for clearances is reduced from 9.6 weeks in 2015 to 6.4 weeks in 2016. It is positive that the Committee is pleased with the progress made. However, I am concerned that the measures in place should be followed up further, in order to ensure an acceptable treatment period for all those who have their cases for treatment. We have also seen that for GSV, which is a priority department, the processing time was down to 4.6 weeks in 2016. The number of pending cases in the Defence Security Department, which implements the clearances, is today, on 22 May, 2797. It's a low number, considering that it's now indentation and a lot of action. In addition, after 1 January of this year, the FSA has become a clearing body for the whole sector. The normal figure in the previous year was approximately 3000 ongoing cases during periods of unindentedness. It may appear that there is a slight increase in the number of complaints. It is not so surprising, because this has actually been a wild policy, which we have also had dialogue with the EOS Committee on. In the past, it was not well-informed about the remedies available. It is now significantly improved, and thus it is also likely that more people will take advantage of the occasion there. In addition, more information has been published from the EOS Committee on this issue, and it can naturally also provide some increase. The Committee has expressed concern in its previous reports that several conversion processes are being carried out at the same time. The company points out that conversion requires a lot of crew and employees, and I fully agree with that. It is important to ensure staff and to find good conversion systems. Rehabilitation in the Defence Sector is a central element of the Long-term Plan adopted by the Stortinget. Conversions are absolutely necessary to ensure increased operational capability in the future. This includes, inter alia: the conversion of posts from staff to operational activities – as we discussed in the previous case – the distortion of defence competence in order to meet new skills needs and to improve efficiency in order to ensure economic sustainable development. Personnel conversions, as the Defense is about to take place, may be difficult for the personnel. That is why the defence has, among other things, establish a dedicated conversion unit to contribute to the proper and sound implementation of the personnel conversion process. There is also a close and open dialogue between the Defence and Employee Organisations. The Committee and the Committee express their concern at the conduct of the military welfare. The defence has changed the personnel management and is continuing to work on it. Welfare is one of the areas of great attention at this stage. As part of the ongoing stabilisation phase, the defence will carry out an evaluation of the welfare service in the summer of 2017. It shall reveal the status of the welfare service after the conversion of the personnel management into the Defence. The purpose is to provide the defence with accommodation and means to correct the course. The result could trigger adjustments if needed. I am concerned that our crews should have a good welfare offer. Here we need to find good solutions that meet the highest priority needs. Reorganisation of the Defence Competence and Education Centre is in line with the objective of more targeted and tested use of this type of scheme. The service currently provided by Focus shall be maintained mainly; however, the manner in which the service is provided shall be modified. It means an organisational assembly at the Centre for Personnel and Security Obligations of the Defence. At the same time, it is important to stress that a lot of the work done today is now being digitised. This means that the way to distribute and deliver is quite similar to the way young people meet today, for example. in dialogue with the bank, with Nav, with Coordinated Recording or with the Staten Lending Fund for Education. That means that very much of the dialogue and the contact goes through web solutions, just as it does to the arenas I just mentioned. For example, the digitised service may: are supplemented by outpatient career guidance teams and organised career days in places where compulsory service is provided. It is also important to stress that young people encounter early digitalisation when implementing initial services, by fully implementing Part 1 session. Today's generation is a generation that has good experience and knowledge of using digital services. The defence, just like today, will provide financial support for civil education for those in the first place. The focus shall continue to provide courses, studies and career guidance to first-time service providers, and the relevant course and the possibility of taking courses from higher education will continue to be an important part of the offer from Focus. Like the denominator, I'm also impressed by the trusted ones, and I appreciate the commitment they have to secure the offer to the soldiers, very loud. The Ministry cooperates closely with the management of the Defence Department to ensure a good level of well-being and of the provision of training and training to those in need of protection. It is an objective that the offer of soldiers should be kept in the best possible way in the new organisation. The initial service shall be relevant, meaningful and provide the individual soldier with compensation that is perceived to be fair. The Committee has also noted that the Ombudsman’s views are generally very positive. There is good leadership with clear attitudes, and there is a great willingness to work and mainly a good working environment in Defence. This is also confirmed by the newly implemented Staff Survey in Defence. Furthermore, it is experienced that the quality of vulnerable crews is very good, I fully agree with the point, and the defence is in the lucky situation that one can choose among the most suitable and most motivated from each year's coal. It's a pleasure that so many young people want to contribute to something bigger than themselves. Finally, let me just draw attention to the follow-up of our veterans. There is a lot of attention in government policy, and we are seven departments that together have a strategy for improving follow-up, especially in the civil sector. That work is, in my opinion, after every good result, but will never be done. We're going to continue to develop that work in the years to come. But it's a very important work, and I think it's particularly nice to notice the recognition and interest society as a whole is now showing to our veterans, whether they're from World War II, or they have veto experience from recent operations. There are, among other things: the joint marking of the release and vet date, introduced in 2010, had a significant and positive impact on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1552	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. Case No. 9 and 10 are the second legal proceedings, and the President will propose that the cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1583	No one has asked to speak on the matter. Nine and ten.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1594	One of the propositions concerns amendments to the Ship Labour Act, the Company's guarantee obligation [[see Unit on 23 May]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1597	Let's see.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1627	In Case No: 2 and 3 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1690	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1700	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1709	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Norunn Tveiden Benestad on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a national resource and competence centre for bullying and to do so as a complaint body for bullying. The Centre must have good legal and pedagogical competence and be assessed under the activities of the Children’s Ombudsman.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1733	I voted wrong! I have to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1738	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e1997	A, I, Section 9 A-4, fourth paragraph, new third and fourth sentences. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e2013	It goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e2023	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e2033	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to ensure that the conversion from the obligation of decision to act as well as the amendments to the laws adopted in respect of the complaint procedure in cases of bullying are evaluated no later than 2 years after the entry into force of this Regulation.» The Labour Party and the Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal. Are there any others who have notified subsidized the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e2046	Yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e2052	Yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e2057	At that time, support for the proposal was also received from the Centre Party and the Greens. Does this also apply to SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e2062	Yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e2080	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e2197	Case No. 9 and 10 relate to the second processing of legal acts and to legislative acts 79 and 80. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-22.ana.ud335e2263	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
