ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-06.ana.ud67e27	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Halvard Ingebrichtsen For the state of Hedmark: Per Gunnar Sveen For the State of Oppland: Stine Renate Håheim For Sogn and Fjordane County: Steinar N ace The request is made by the Workers' Group that the exemption granted to the alternate representative Tone Merete Sønsterud under the leave of the representative Annette Trettebergstuen be extended until 7 October for reasons of well-being On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Per Gunnar Sveen is still being called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-06.ana.ud67e70	From 9 October to 13 October, in order to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, an application has been submitted by the Right-wing Group to the representative of Ingerd Schou. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The product representative, Monica Carmen Gåsvatn, is hereby invited to meet in Stortinget from 9 October to 12 October.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-06.ana.ud67e119	We've put behind us an exciting big shot. But one thing has not been related to tension, namely that the voters have been able to go to the polls in confidence that the elections would be carried out in a satisfactory way. It's the tradition of our country. That is what our political system and legislation is doing. On the basis of the election material submitted by the county councils, the Supervisory Board may conclude that the roll-out election has been conducted in a good and effective manner and that the county councils have carried out a thorough monitoring of the electoral process of the municipal councils. The Committee has not found any errors that may have affected the validity of the choice. But, as I'm going to come back to, the Committee has pointed out some weaknesses and improvement points in its attitude. Some of these will also be the subject of the newly created election law committee, which will assess changes to the electoral law and electoral system by the end of 2019. The security aspect was a theme in front of the collapse option. In particular, the possibility of manipulation of the election result was in focus. It could lead to uncertainty as to whether the election result was correct. The Minister for Local Affairs and Modernisation has assured us that the electoral system is well tested and secured. Continuous risk and vulnerability analyses were carried out by the national safety authority. The police security service, in cooperation with the Election Directorate, has also contributed to increased security. As an additional security measure, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, just two weeks before the elections, all municipalities carry out their preliminary counting of ballots manually. Although the manual census, which was decided shortly before the elections, may have posed a challenge for some municipalities, safety must be a general consideration. The number of pre-selections was changed during the year, with more than one million – 1070 000 to be precise – voted in favour by the voters. An unfortunate fact that was much discussed in connection with the election four years ago was that more than 1,600 preliminary votes had to be rejected because they arrived too late at the electoral council of the choice's municipality. Therefore, the size changed the deadline from 1 p.m. 21 on election day until 9 p.m. 17 days after the election this year. Between 18 and 22 September, the Electoral Directorate conducted a survey of the number of preliminary votes received after the deadline of the year. The study, which was answered by 335 municipalities, showed that 1,051 votes, 335 of which were issued abroad, were obtained after the deadline. This is an improvement in relation to the previous decision making, but it is not satisfactory, in particular because many votes were late because election officials had not provided for proper shipping to the electorate's municipality of residence. To this end, the Committee asked the government to consider the imposition of pre-selection votes with express votes or bids in the last days before the election date. Over 5000 votes and nearly 5,200 ballots were rejected at the year's elections. When more than 4000 voters meet on the election day itself to vote, but do not get voted because they are not rated, there is reason to assume that the information on membership has not been good enough. Many 4,500 ballots were rejected because of a lack of stamp. Many voters put more than one ballot in the urn because they like to use an extra ballot, often a blank ballot, as a cover. But then only the cover is stamped, not the ballot box inside the cover. In that case, the motion for a resolution must be rejected. Many voters also fail to change the voting list, with the result that the correction will not be accepted even if the vote itself does. In addition to informing about the social importance of participating in elections, it is very important that good and easily understood public information is provided on the conditions for voting and how voters should be able to count their vote in the electoral process and not to be rejected due to errors. Good infrastructure and organisation of voting in the constituencies are also an important prerequisite for proper voting. The Committee considers that the Ministry should establish guidelines to ensure that this is better cared for. In addition, satisfactory availability of the constituencies of disabled voters is important in order for this group to have the same right to participate in elections as all others. All municipalities used an electronic rating for the prior polling, while only 255 municipalities chose to use an electronic rating for the election to search for the voters and to check for the votes cast. Technically, it is relatively easy to organise the use of electronic ratings, and this does not entail any additional costs for municipalities, as the Committee understands. The Committee considers that electronic ratings can contribute to quality improvement both by reducing the risk of errors and by speeding up the voting process in the polling room. The Committee therefore asks the government to consider what can be done to get all municipalities to use electronic ratings also at the election. Approximately 30,000 electoral officials carry out an important mission for society. It may be difficult to perform the job as an electoral officer without making mistakes, either because of inattentiveness or lack of knowledge of the legislation. The errors that were made must, after all, be seen in the light of the fact that there were 2,944,420 approved votes. The Committee believes that it is important that local authorities devote sufficient resources to enable the electoral staff to take full advantage of the Electoral Directorate’s training activities. At the same time, the Electoral Directorate must adapt and develop the training so that the electoral officials feel that it is both relevant and easy to acquire. Of course, a competent and accessible user support system in the Election Directorate is also an important factor in the correct and safe implementation of the choice. This Committee of Governors is also concerned with the format of the ballots by roll-call votes. We therefore reiterate the earlier Committees' view that it is not acceptable that a cross on the voting list in the event of a roll-call vote has a different meaning to that of local government and county elections. The Committee therefore asks that the ballots be drawn up by roll-call votes so that the voters do not have to be in doubt as to how to make any corrections. The Norwegian Blind League has raised several complaints on behalf of blind or partially syndicated voters, who have been refused to include a helper in the ballot box in violation of the legislation. Finally, I would like to inform you of a specific complaint that illustrates this issue. The reason why I refer to this complaint in particular is that it was dealt with by the National Election Council only yesterday and is therefore not included in the position of the mandate committee, which was issued on 4 October. The complaint was lodged within the time limit for appeal, which is seven days after the election. Due to late proceedings in the municipality, it entered the National Election Board at the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation only in the afternoon on Wednesday 4 October. The Governing Council, which is the Board of Appeal on matters relating to the exercise of majority voting, examined the appeal on 5 October and forwarded it to the Stortinget on the same day. The Supervisory Committee considers that it is sufficient for the Stortinget to be informed of the handling of the complaint through this submission. The complaint was lodged by the Norwegian Blind Federation on behalf of Elin Birkeland Rage, Sola Municipality. The complaint refers to the fact that Rage was refused to bring his own escort into the ballot box to find the ballot. She had only been assisted by an electoral officer. The complainant also found that some of the ballots were missing some of the points in the paper. The local election board decided on 3 October to reject the complaint, as they could not see that it had consequences for the election result. The municipality refers to the fact that the information contained in the complaint will be taken into account and incorporated into the procedures of future elections. The Ministry, in its proposal to the National Election Board, states that the general rule of the Election Act is that if voters need help to vote, they have the right to help with election officials. Some selection groups may also have other helpers of their choice if they have a serious physical or mental disability. Blind and partially sighted voters are specifically mentioned in the law's preprocessor as a group that should be able to point out their own helpers. The Ministry believes that the municipality in this case could have done more to clarify the complainant's need for assistance and to inform him of what is required in order to have an additional helper. The Ministry considers this to be an error in the implementation of the choice. With regard to the issue of non-puncture, the Ministry states that the electoral regulation provides for the organisation of voting in such a way that the blind and partially aware may vote without having to ask for help. In the light of the information in this case, the Ministry notes that there is a lack of label with a letter of credit for one batch in one outlet. In the absence of capitalised labels available for all ballots, alternative solutions must be available and adequate guidance must be provided by local authorities. The Ministry considers that it must be regarded as a breach of the requirement of availability that there is no full stamp marking of ballots in the openings used by the blind and partially syndicated. The Ministry concludes as follows in the case: ‘There have been errors in the implementation of the voting in the municipality of Sola. However, there is no evidence that this has an impact on the outcome of the elections. On the basis of this, the Ministry recommends that the complaint be dismissed.’ The Governing Council of the Kingdom of Sweden has taken the following decisions: ‘1. The National Election Board joins the Ministry's assessment. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Swedish National Election Council believes that, based on the facts of the case, a mistake has been made in the implementation of the voting in the municipality of Sola. 3rd@item: inlistbox Complaint from Elin Birkeland Rage is not followed, as it does not have any bearing on the outcome of the elections.» The Management Committee shall have no comments on the decision of the Governing Council in the matter. Like the ministry's opinion in this and similar complaints contained in the Committee's suspension, the Committee takes a serious view of errors affecting persons with disabilities. We believe it is important for the electoral authorities to provide proper training on how to deal with voters who need assistance in order to be able to vote — in addition to ensuring good organisation of the polling facilities. At the end of the day, I would like to point out that it is unfortunate that the complaint in question has remained in the municipality for so long without being forwarded. This also points to the National Election Board in its decision. Proper handling of complaints must also be part of the training of electoral staff in municipalities and county municipalities. In this context, I recommend that the Storting should join in the unanimous vote of the Committee on Decision-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-06.ana.ud67e209	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-06.ana.ud67e221	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-06.ana.ud67e245	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
