ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e25	The called alternate of the Busherud County, Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy, now takes the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Une Bastholm on parental leave from 27 November to 15 June by Mr Abid Q. Raja, on leave on 27 and 28 November to attend the Conference of Parliamentarians for Global Action in Milan of the Central Party Group on the Permit of the Representative for the Lib Signe Navarsete on 27 and 28 November to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Brussels on the leave of the representative Kjersti Toppe on 27 and 28 November to attend the Bureau meeting of the Nordic Council in Copenhagen from the representative Silje Hemdal on leave from 28 November to 30 November and from the representatives Petter Eide, Emilie Enger Mehl, Ingjerd Schou and Vetle Wang Soleim on leave on 29 and 30 November – all to take part in a study trip to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to Strasbourg These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Oslo, Olivia Corso Salles, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Petter Eide. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Akershus County: Solveig Schytz 28 November For Hedmark County: Per Martin Sandtrøen 29-30. November For Hordaland County: Hans Inge Myrvold 28 November and Laila Reiertsen 28–30. November For More and Romesdal counties: Anders Riise 29.–30. November For Oslo: Per Espen Stoknes November 27th to June 15th and Solveig Skaugvoll Foss 29th to 30th. November For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Steinar Ness 27-28. November For Eastfold County: Monica Carmen Gåsvatn 29-30. November – It is also considered to be adopted. The representative of Une Bastholm will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e133	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to apply a Norwegian tax to companies with digital income models, a «Google tax».
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e138	The representative, Hans Andreas Limi, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e143	On behalf of the representatives of Mazyar Keshvari, Helge André Njåstad, Morten Wold, Morten Stordalen, Erlend Wiborg and myself, I would like to make a proposal that the Presidency of the Stortinge appoints a selection to assess the process and the eligibility of the committees, selections and names appointed by the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e148	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e153	On behalf of myself, I come up with a proposal for action against sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e158	The representative, Else-May Botten, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e163	On behalf of Sverre Myrli, Espen Barth Eide, Runar Seestad, Åsmund Aukrust, Hege Liadal Haukeland and myself, I would like to make a proposal to base strict environmental requirements on the Kystrut in the period 2021-2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e169	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e174	On behalf of Lars Haltbrecken, Solfrid Lerbreck, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to change the offer on the Kystruten.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e179	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 2, Unit, to be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e244	Mr Andersen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e249	With regard to point 147 of the Minutes, parts of the case have now been proposed under point 39(e) of the Rules of Procedure. I have to ask for a reason why this has happened, and that in that case we will have an opportunity to evaluate that justification.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e254	It shall be identical to the decision taken by the Stortinget on 14 November when it states that ‘The Government shall immediately request the Government to withdraw instruction GI-02/2017...’, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e259	That's all right. It was kind of hard to know and remember exactly what that point was now, but then it's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e264	Otherwise, no one has any comments on the record. – All the items of record are then deemed to have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e278	The tide is turning rapidly in today's Europe. The cohesion, optimism and creativity of European cooperation are significantly greater than just one year ago. That's good, also for Norway. The causes of the mood change are complex. Firstly, the development of the European economy gives a greater scope for action in many countries. Developments in the euro area are better than forecast and are now broadly anchored. Unemployment has gradually declined over the last five years, and this trend is expected to continue and have a positive impact on the discussions on the future of Europe and the EU. Secondly, global developments have highlighted the value of European cooperation. I am thinking about both the refugee and migration situation and the need for robust agreements to address climate change. In addition, we see increased awareness that European countries need to invest more, both economically and politically, in our common security. Several see that global agreements commit and must be followed up, and that is an expression of a community of values in which we know ourselves at home. Thirdly, EU countries are now showing coherence and coherence in the management of Brexit. The crisis scenarios on domino effects and resolution are being put to shame. Over and over the course of history, the EU has shown that crises can be turned to something positive, and there is increasing awareness of the value of European cooperation. Fourthly, we now see the outlines of a cooperation that must not devote all its resources to crisis management. The EU can use forces to further develop long-term policies and cooperation structures. There is no doubt that brexit will be of great importance – both for the United Kingdom, for the EU and for Norway. Anxiety in industry contributes to a weak investment rate in the United Kingdom and, according to the OECD, the uncertainty about Brexit has contributed to the United Kingdom’s weakest economic growth in all G7 countries in the first half of 2017. The OECD Secretary-General Gurria identified it as essential that the United Kingdom and the EU maintain as close economic cooperation as possible. How the United Kingdom should relate to the EU's internal market – and to us through EEA cooperation – is a central but still unresolved issue. The UK government has said that the United Kingdom will leave the internal market and the EU customs union and that it will seek its own model for its future cooperation with the EU. The United Kingdom and the EU continue their negotiations on a call-out agreement. Such an agreement must be in place within the UK, leaving the EU, and it will take place at midnight on 29 March 2019. However, in order to have the time to ratify the discharge agreement, it has to be negotiated the next autumn, according to the timetable as outlined on the EU side. The negotiations are in a time-critical phase. At its October meeting, the European Council concluded that there was insufficient progress in the negotiations on the notification to start discussions on an agreement regulating the future situation. The next occasion is the summit on 14 and 15 December. The parties have little time to make the progress required to obtain such a decision at the December Summit. After the previous round of negotiations on 8 and 9 November, EU Chief Negotiator Michel Barnier made it clear that progress must be made within a few weeks. The EU has a goal of reaching an agreement, but underlines that it must necessarily have some consequences to report out of the Union. You can't continue an equally close relationship, and you can't expect to achieve fewer obligations and more rights. It has to be a balance. The EU is our most important trading partner, while the United Kingdom is our largest single market for goods, including oil and gas, and services with a total export of nearly one fifth of Norway’s total exports, above 200 billion. kr annually. Norway’s interests are to take care of the EEA Agreement and other agreements Norway has with the EU. At the same time, we will maintain close cooperation with the United Kingdom and best possible access to the UK market. Norway does not participate in outsourcing negotiations with the United Kingdom. However, with our membership of the internal market, we are not an ordinary third country, and we are directly affected by the negotiations because the result agreed between the EU and the United Kingdom will have consequences for us too. We therefore want the possibility to be included in joint solutions between the EU and the United Kingdom. With regard to citizens’ rights, the EU’s objective is to ensure that the acquired rights conferred by EU law also apply to persons who have been or are staying in the United Kingdom until the date of withdrawal. The same rights shall also apply to British citizens who have acquired rights in other EU countries. The government is working to ensure that Norwegian citizens who have acquired rights are given the same rights in the United Kingdom as EU citizens. Prime Minister Theresa May has assured the Prime Minister that the United Kingdom will offer the same rights to Norwegian citizens as they have now offered the EU side. The government has intensified its work on brexit in the last few months. In order to ensure that we can maintain close cooperation with the United Kingdom even after their withdrawal from the EU, we need to be well prepared. For example, we have to. have a good overview of where alternative agreements will need to be in place from the first day the United Kingdom is no longer an EU member. We also need to be prepared for non-agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom on an outsourcing agreement or any transitional arrangements. Should this happen, trade with the United Kingdom will initially be regulated by WTO legislation. It is important for Norwegian industry to avoid such an outcome, as it could lead to uncertainty and economic consequences. We have established a cross-ministerial working group. The group closely follows the negotiations and developments and identifies Norwegian interests that are affected by Brexit. We have also set up a business reference group under the joint direction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. The main purpose of the Group is to exchange information with business representatives on matters that may affect Norway in the process. The first meeting took place on 15 November. We continue our close dialogue with the EU on the parts of the internal market negotiations. Both we and the EU side are committed to maintaining unity in the internal market. In my meeting with Barnier last week this was confirmed again. Then it is clear that the EU does not negotiate with the United Kingdom on our behalf – we will and will do it ourselves. We have intensified the close dialogue with the United Kingdom on what we need to put in place by contract agencies to ensure that the relationship between our two countries can remain as close as possible even after the United Kingdom leaves the EU and the EEA. We are clear that we are ready to negotiate our future relationship as soon as possible. For the government, it is generally up to the EEA Agreement to fence. We will seek a link with a possible transitional arrangement between the United Kingdom and the EU where it is in our interest, and we will work for a comprehensive new agreement with the United Kingdom. This is new in the discussions on the future of the European Union. EU leaders recently agreed on the Leaders Agenda. Through more frequent meetings of the European Council – a total of seven summits in 2018 – it will ensure progress on the major issues over the next six months. Key themes include euro area reform, migration, external and internal security, trade, and future EU funding. The Commission has proposed a number of measures to create closer EMU cooperation with a view to higher growth and well-being and greater resilience to economic shocks. Among the proposals under discussion is the gradual development of the EU crisis fund for an IMF for the euro area, the EMF, the establishment of a Eurofinance Minister and a separate budget line for the euro area within the EU budget. In the short term, the latest elements of the Banking Union and the Capital Markets Union are considered to be the most important ones and several of these proposals will require Treaty changes. In the field of defence and security policy, the EU is now establishing new instruments. Among other things, the launch of permanent structured military cooperation, known as Pesco, is expected at the EU summit in December. A dedicated European Defence Fund was launched this summer and is in the process of finding its form. Norway is the only non-EU country to participate in the pilot scheme for defence research, which forms one part of the Fund. Other initiatives are also under development. These discussions, and this agenda, reflect the EU's desire to be responsive to its own people and to respond to their and Europe's needs. This is also about Norway’s needs. We are part of Europe, and the EU's ability to address migration challenges, to the economy, and to internal and external security also affects us. We must therefore be actively involved in these processes. The government will follow EU initiatives, take an active part in the debates and play Norwegian positions and possible own contributions where this is natural. We cannot be a free passenger for prosperity and security. We need to continue our constructive engagement line, because it's in our national interest. Then we also need to look at new forms of cooperation with the EU that had to materialise in the light of Brexit. Norway will also take an active part in the debate in order to be included in new schemes where it is in our interest. Although the pressure on migration towards Europe is now less than in 2015 and 2016, work on justice and home affairs has continued to be a high priority in the EU. The fundamental challenges of European cooperation are linked to the orderly joint management of migrants and asylum seekers, as well as the safeguarding of internal security. In September of this year, the Commission presented its mid-term report on what has been achieved by the 2015 Migration Agenda, while proposing further measures to make EU migration and asylum policies even stronger, fairer and more effective. Intensified cooperation between domestic and foreign policy interests is highlighted as particularly positive and necessary to tackle the number of migrants arriving in Europe and to find appropriate solutions to prevent irregular migration, to strengthen the efforts for the return of persons without legal residence and to stop the trafficking activity from Africa. The agenda is important for Norwegian interests because many of the measures are relevant to our cooperation with the EU. Among other things, Norway supports EU migration cooperation with African countries through Valletta cooperation. We've contributed 32.5 million in the past. kr to the EU Multi-stakeholder Fund for Stability and Action against Irregular Migration in Africa, the EU Trust Fund, and a recent decision has been made to allocate an additional 50 million. kr to this fund. Strengthening Norwegian efforts to assist vulnerable countries could also help to promote stability in central transit and origin countries. At the same time, this effort can contribute to a reduction in the pressure on migration towards Europe. Through the Malta Declaration of February this year, the EU supported enhanced efforts in Libya to limit irregular migration across the central Mediterranean. The EU has set aside 200 million. EUR for migration efforts in Libya. Both border controls at the southern border and the Coast Guard are strengthened by building skills and capacity. The protection of vulnerable migrants and refugees is strengthened in cooperation with the IOM and UNHCR. In addition, an assisted return and reintegration programme is provided for 5,000 migrants. The Commission has recently proposed a new resettlement programme for particularly vulnerable persons from countries such as Libya, Egypt, Niger, Sudan, Chad and Ethiopia with the aim of reaching 50,000 people. Until now, Norway has contributed, among others: for the relocation of 1500 asylum seekers from Italy and Greece and for the resettlement of more than 8 000 refugees from Syria’s neighbouring country in 2015-2017. It is in the Norwegian interest to reach agreement on a more balanced distribution of asylum seekers in Europe. This is discussed as part of the review of the Dublin acquis. The EU has not yet achieved the objectives of the regulatory review and is working on implementing the principles of responsibility and solidarity. From the Norwegian side, we will help to put in place predictable and sustainable solutions and follow these discussions closely. The EEA Agreement is the cornerstone of Norwegian European policy and the main agreement we have with our European partners. For more than 20 years, the agreement has contributed to the strengthening of trade, economic relations and increasing cooperation between Norway and the EU. It ensures a level playing field in our largest market, with 31 countries and half a billion people. It's of great importance since almost 80 pst. of our exports go to the EU and more than 60 pst. of our imports come from the Member States of the European Union. The EEA Agreement is much more than market access. It gives us all important rights and opportunities in Europe – to study, to research, to work. The agreement helps to ensure the quality of air and drinking water, it is about safe food, non-toxic toys, animal health and welfare, and not least about access to the best research and innovation environments in Europe and in the rest of the world. Common legislation in these areas offers a level playing field and facilitates trade for both Norwegian and European businesses, which is in the interests of both. The rights of Norwegian workers have been strengthened in many areas by EEA rules. The protection of workers in the event of mass redundancies, the rights of employees in the case of business transfers and written contract rules are examples of rights established by the EEA Agreement. In addition, legislation is essentially minimum provisions, which means that we have retained the national space for action in areas where we want to go further. The internal market in the EEA includes more than 250 million workers. 10 pst. of all employed persons in Norway are labour immigrants from EU/EEA countries – most from the new Member States. Norway needs these workers. The importance of the EEA Agreement is also demonstrated by the many trails of Norwegian fish that go to the Union market every day. We serve about 25 million meals a day. Due to the harmonised legislation we have with the EU in the veterinary field, fresh fish can be sent directly from Norwegian producers to the European market without delaying border controls, and no pure trade agreement can replace this. At the same time, it is clear that the EEA Agreement is a negotiated compromise. It is like any other agreement a balance between rights and obligations. But since its entry into force in 1994, the agreement has served us well. The Government is underpinning our cooperation with the EU and the EU Member States by the EEA Agreement and our other agreements with the EU. This has been done by all Norwegian governments since the conclusion of the agreement. It is also unlikely that the EU would be interested in renegotiating the 1973 trade agreement in line with Norwegian requirements and wishes. Cooperation with the EU is not a list of sandwiches to be ordered from. Switzerland originally had 15 areas where they wanted bilateral agreements. Of these, they have now — 24 years later — reached agreements for about half of the areas, and these agreements took 12 years to negotiate. In addition, they have had to accept agreements in areas where they did not want cooperation, but where the EU wanted an agreement. There is little reason to believe that it would be easier for Norway than it has been for Switzerland. Some EEA cases have called for more attention in recent times. Let me mention some examples: The travel market is an international industry and common rules in Europe ensure predictability for both travellers and traders. We are therefore pleased that the Package Travel Directive was incorporated into the EEA Agreement on 22 September this year. It ensures that travellers who themselves assemble their journey online are strengthened in their consumer rights. Among other things, it makes it easier to cancel or transfer travel. At the same time, increased information requirements are also being imposed on travellers. The Nordics travel a lot, and more and more tailors travel on the web. It is therefore important that the consumer rules of the EEA Agreement are adapted to the consumption pattern. At the same time, the Directive provides for a level playing field for industry. It therefore represents an important strengthening of the legislation on the travel market. In 2016, Stortinget consented to Norwegian banking, insurance and securities turnover financial supervision of the EU. Our financial supervision is still in Oslo, but supervision is closely involved in cooperation between national supervisory authorities in Europe. This link is necessary in order to establish the framework conditions in order to ensure that the Norwegian financial industry continues to have access to the whole EEA market. But there is still a lot of work to be done. Today, there are 259 acts in this area which must be incorporated into the EEA Agreement in the near future. This work is demanding. The responsibility lies both on the EU side and on the EFTA countries. The government and the financial industry are busy moving ahead. We have agreed with the Commission that both parties now need to deploy the necessary resources to carry out the work. It is also positive that we have finally put in place the EU regulation on medicines for children and three related regulations, the so-called paediatric package. We now have common rules that ensure better evidence of safety and efficacy and increase the availability of medicinal products specifically intended for children. The implementation of the regulations in Norwegian law involves legislative changes, the transfer of competences to the EFTA Surveillance Authority for financial penalties and budgetary implications. In 2017, we have put in place the framework for the participation of the EEA/EFTA States in the EU Energy Agency (ACER) by including the third energy market package in the EEA Agreement. In November 2017, the size was given the consent proposal for the treatment, in addition to the legislative proposals for electricity and gas required to bring Norwegian law into line with applicable EU energy market legislation. Further extensive work is ongoing on the EU Energy Union through proposals to amend EU energy legislation. Some of the most important legislative proposals are included in the so-called Winter Package, or Clean Energy for All Europeans. On the part of the government, we have been concerned to record proposals and views at an early stage, both alone and with the authorities of other countries. Norway has a different starting point than many EU Member States. We have a power supply based on renewable hydropower, and we are a great energy exporter. This makes it important to have an active position from the Norwegian side in order to safeguard Norwegian interests. In the climate field, Norway’s objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 pst. by 2030. Our intention is to achieve the goal together with the EU, which the EU and its Member States have welcomed. The EU is in the process of agreeing on the implementing legislation to achieve the 2030 emission target. Recent political agreement was reached on the revised climate quota directive for the period 2021 to 2030. Norway is already participating in the EU ETS through the EEA Agreement. Negotiations on the climate codes for emissions from the non-quota sector during the same period are also in the final phase. This is legislation that Norway does not consider to be EEA-relevant, but which Norway will have to deal with in an agreement on joint compliance with 2030 emission targets. In addition, a management system for the Energy Union is being negotiated, such as: will provide rules for the measurement and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. The ministries are further working on clarifying whether and how the rules of the management system will apply in a joint agreement on the 2030 emissions target. An agreement with the EU will only be possible once the EU has adopted its emissions target implementing legislation. We expect a more formalised dialogue with the EU to start in 2018. However, the Commission has been open to discuss matters relating to the form of agreement in the run-up to the adoption of EU legislation. Norway has opened an agreement on the joint fulfilment of the 2030 emission target under Protocol 31 to the EEA Agreement on voluntary cooperation outside the four freedoms. At the same time, it is essential that Norway will not be bound by objectives and legislation in the field of climate and energy beyond what follows from the main part and annexes of the EEA Agreement and from an agreement on the joint achievement of the 2030 emission target. The Commission’s proposal for amendments to the Posting Directive shall counteract unacceptable pay and working conditions for foreign workers and unequal conditions of competition between local and foreign enterprises. The aim is to break down a principle of equal pay for equal work at the same place. The Government welcomes the Commission’s initiative to ensure the proper balance between the free movement of services, the protection of workers and fair competition. At the same time, the government would stress that it is important that the national space for action to define wages and salaries should not be restricted. The government is following the further process carefully and is actively using our potential for impact to the EU. Crime at work is an increasing challenge. The government, together with the social partners, has put the fight against the crime of working life high on the agenda. In January 2015, the government presented its own strategy against the crime of working life. This was revised and strengthened in February this year. Job crime and unprofessional employment are cross-border challenges. We depend on international cooperation to bring the problems to life. Cooperation is under way. The EU enforcement directive has been implemented in Norwegian law from 1 July 2017. The Directive lays down, inter alia: requirements for enhanced cross-border cooperation of powers. In addition, the Prime Minister has taken his own initiative towards the European Commission, where we point to work challenges and propose a number of measures. The Prime Minister recently attended the EU Social Summit in Gothenburg, where the main lines of the initiative were presented to elected Heads of State. The experience of Norway is that it has been important to establish a joint effort to combat labour-life crime in a government-determined strategy that obliges the various actors to follow up concretely. Norway therefore wishes, inter alia: to discuss with our European partners the appropriateness of a comprehensive, common approach to work-life crime at European level. Tax crime in cross-border services is part of this issue. Here, too, key instruments are international cooperation and cross-border exchange of information. In addition, it is important to maintain the internal rules that give Norwegian contracting entities reporting obligations when using non-resident contracting entities. This obligation allows proper taxation to be ensured even in cross-border situations. This promotes a level playing field not only between Norwegian and foreign actors but also between non-national operators reporting unsolicited and non-solicited. We are in dialogue with ESA to keep as much of this reporting obligation as possible without breaching the EEA Agreement rules on freedom of services. In order for the internal market to function, it is important that we do not fall short of incorporating EEA legislation. It creates different legislation within the internal market. The successor is now 561 legal acts. This is too high. Reducing the delay is a joint responsibility. This requires joint effort and effort. We need to focus on good and flexible processes nationally and to cooperate well with our EFTA partners – and we do. The EU side also has a responsibility for this work. Therefore, we need to have good and continuous dialogue with the EU to avoid unnecessary delays when we want adaptations. That is why we have agreed with the Commission to make special progress in the field of finance. It is important because the financial area constitutes 259 acts of the total lag. We need to keep a constant focus on delays, ensure that our national procedures are adapted, and contribute to the effective integration of EEA legislation. Negotiations on new EEA funds for the period 2014-2021 are progressing well. So far, framework agreements have been signed with eight countries: Romania, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Malta, Estonia, Portugal, the Czech Republic and Greece. Poland, Latvia and Lithuania remain, but agreement has been reached on programmes and allocations there as well. We continue to have the ambition to complete the negotiations with the remaining countries by the end of 2017. Through the framework agreements we have signed, it is, among other things, invested. on growth and innovation through dedicated business, research and education programmes worth more than 250 million. euro. Norwegian universities such as Innovation Norway, Norwegian Research Councils and Centres for Internationalisation of Education will be professional advisors for the programmes and become important in bilateral cooperation. In total, 18 Norwegian institutions are now involved as professional advisors in various programmes. Rome remains a marginalised group in several beneficiary countries of EEA funds. In Romania, Bulgaria and Slovakia, we have therefore agreed on our own programmes with a specific focus on space integration and strengthening their rights. The Government will maintain a strong commitment to the rule of law and democracy in Europe through EEA funds and in cooperation with the EU. A strong and living independent civil society is an important pillar of well-functioning democracies. We therefore look with concern at developments in some European countries, where civil society is under pressure. The Government attaches great importance to the contribution of EEA funds to the strengthening of civil society in Central Europe. For the period 2014-2021, a minimum of 10 pst. by the EEA Financial Mechanism go to non-governmental organisations. For the agreements that have been signed so far, we are well above this threshold. Negotiations with Hungary have not been concluded. We insist that the management of EEA funds for civil society should be independent of the authorities of the recipient country. This year, Norway holds the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. We see that cooperation in the Nordic region can be a springboard for Norway towards cooperation with the EU. At the same time, the Nordic region needs a strong and well-functioning EU. In all the Nordic countries, we are now experiencing a renewed belief that a clear Nordic voice in the European debate serves both Europe and the Nordic countries. Let me give you one example: digitisation is a very central component of Europe and of the future competitiveness of the Nordic-Baltic region. A good example of Nordic-Baltic cooperation on digitisation is the Nordic-Baltic Ministerial Conference Digital North in April this year. Here, agreement was reached on a common Nordic-Baltic strategy for the next generation of mobile networks, 5G. It is positive that we see Nordic-Baltic joint solutions in the field of digitalisation being sought in Europe and having an impact on EU policy-making. In other areas, we see demand for Nordic solutions. This applies, for example, to climate and social issues. The breadth, depth and upsizing of the Nordic region are the main strength of cooperation. We're talking about identity and trust that's built over time. Europe now appears more equipped to deal with the challenges we face together. That's what's needed, because the challenges are many. And although important choices in Europe over the last year have shown that populism and extremism have limited influence on voters, there is still dissatisfaction in many countries. One of Europe’s most important tasks in the future will be to address the causes of this dissatisfaction. There are tasks that need to be addressed through an interaction of actions at national, European and global level. It shall also contribute to Norway, as part of the internal market and Schengen. It is essential that cooperation partners build their policies and societies on common values, democracy and the rule of law. This is why trends in countries such as Hungary and Poland are worrying. Norway continues to support civil society and the rule of law in these countries, not least through the EEA funds. This is a work for which the Stortinget has also expressed support, including: in the context of the notification to the Storting on EEA funds from 2012. We work purposefully to strengthen our bilateral relationship with the central allies in Europe, as we do, among other things. notified in the communication to the Stortinget on road choices in Norwegian foreign and security policy. The visions of this Communication will continue in a new strategy for our relationship with the EU. This strategy will be launched early in 2018. It is in Norway’s interest to cooperate closely with the EU and to participate actively in the political processes under way in Europe. In order for us to have an impact on Norwegian interests, while contributing to positive developments both in Norway and in other European countries, Norway needs to be active on the ground. Our prosperity, our security and our values are best ensured through cooperation in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-23.ana.ud51e412	The President will propose that the statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
