ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e28	Representatives Gunvor Eldegard, Lise Christoffersen, Øyvind Halleraker, Hadia Tajik, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Frank J. Jensen, Ingerd Schou and Irene Johansen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. In order to attend the meeting of the Nordic Council in Brussels, an application has been submitted by the Centre Party’s Group of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the representative Per Olaf Lundtägen on 2 and 3 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Gerd Eli Berge, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e75	The representative, Mr Lagen Wagzlid, will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e80	On behalf of the representatives of Hadia Tajik, Kari Henriksen, Jorod Asphjell and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to strengthen the work against the electorate. Secondly, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on behalf of Lise Christoffersen, Stine Renate Håheim, Sonja Mandt, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Christian Tynning Bjørnø, Kari Henriksen and myself to strengthen the follow-up in the re-establishment phase for people exposed to power in close relations and a proposal for a representative on behalf of the same persons to strengthen the work against violence against the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e87	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e92	On behalf of the representatives of Jonas Gahr Støre, Rigmor Aasrud, Lise Christoffersen, Tove-Lise Torve, Martin Henriksen, Odd Omland, Stine Renate Håheim, Kari Henriksen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for an action plan for a serious and organised working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e97	The representative, Mr Sigbjørn Tuskedal, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e102	On behalf of the major representatives Line Henriette Hemdal, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Anders Tyvand and myself, I propose a big message on a strengthened cultural school for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e107	The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e113	On behalf of Jonas Gahr Støre, Torgeir Micaelsen, Kjersti Toppe, Knut Arild Hareide, Olaug V. Bollestad, Audun Lysbakken, Rasmus Hansson and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal for daily physical activity in school and an action plan for physical activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e118	The representative, Mr Vegar Solhjell, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e123	On behalf of myself alone, in fact, I have just as much the great honour of presenting representative proposals for a holistic and independent evaluation of foreign and development policy instruments in Norwegian policy towards Israel and Palestine. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e128	The representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e133	On behalf of the big business representatives Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Heidi Greni, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself, I propose to ask the government to submit a report on the taxi industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e138	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø will present four proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e143	It is a pleasure to make proposals on behalf of the representatives Karin Andersen, Audun Lysbakken and myself to ensure a profit-free child protection. It is also a pleasure to make proposals on behalf of Karin Andersen, Audun Lysbakken and myself about immediate measures to ensure safe maternity care. On behalf of the representatives Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, proposals are being made for a change in the conversion law. And on behalf of the representatives Karin Andersen and myself, proposals are made for the right to pension slips on paper sent in the post office.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e154	The representative, Marit Arnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e159	On behalf of Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Liv Signe Navarsete and myself, I would like to make a proposal on Kjeller Airport.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e164	The representative, Mr Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e169	On behalf of Jan Bøhler, Hadia Tajik, Lene Vågslid, Jorodd Asphjell and myself, I am delighted to make representations to combat reindeer crime and organized crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e175	The representative of Ms Olug V. Bollestad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e180	On behalf of the representatives Hans Fredrik Grövan, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on working conditions for hospital staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e185	The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e190	On behalf of the representatives of Line Henriette Hemdal, Hans Fredrik Gruvan, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal and I am pleased to make a proposal on measures to strengthen consumer rights in the trading of housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e195	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present four proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e200	On behalf of Audun Lysbakken and myself, I will make two proposals, one on trust reform in school, the other on enhanced special pedagogical follow-up in an inclusive school. On behalf of the major representatives of Kirsti Bergstø, Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik and myself, I will make proposals to ensure equivalent pension schemes regardless of the type of operation, cf. The Nursing Scheme, so that employees are entitled to at least as good retirement benefits as before when tendering for public sector activities, and – finally – on behalf of the Nursing Representatives Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik and me, propose better conditions for single minor asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e207	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e212	On behalf of the representatives Knut Arild Hareide, Hans Fredrik Grövan and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on the storage obligation of IP addresses to protect children from abuse. And on behalf of the representatives of Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Anders Tyvand, Olaug V. Bollestad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for measures to combat rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e219	The representative, Line Henriette Hemdal, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e224	On behalf of Rigmor Andersen Eide, Geir Sigbjørn Toskedal, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative to set up a public body to review the competitive situation on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e229	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will put forward two representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e235	On behalf of the representatives of Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Kjersti Toppe, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and Mejl, I would like to propose that pensioners who so request receive payment messages from the Working and Welfare Session on paper every month, and – further on – representatives from the representatives of Kjersti Toppe and me, for a thank-you for a decent Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e240	The representative, Mr Inge Lien, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e245	On behalf of the representatives of Liv Signe Navarsete, Anne Tingelstad Wøien and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the digitisation of all District Courts in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e250	The representative, Mr Pollestad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e255	On behalf of the big business representatives Heidi Greni and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a roll-call report on the business sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e260	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will present four proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e265	On behalf of four times myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to phase out the use of environmental toxins in consumer products, a proposal for a ban on cage hens and a ban on the labelling of eggs from turkeys until the ban has been implemented, a proposal for an industrial policy for a coast free of emissions and a proposal for a labelling scheme for foodstuffs on animal welfare, forage and antibiotic use. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e270	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e275	I shall, on behalf of the representatives of the Magnificence Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Geir Pollestad, Heidi Greni, Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself, make proposals to change the conversion of the Swedish Archives and to strengthen the eight regional state archives. Then I have a representative from Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Per Olaf Lundtägen, Geir Inge Lien and myself on the follow-up to the Women's Country Committee report and replace the Health Administration Act with a Health Administration Act and introduce elected government and urban management of Norwegian hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e282	The representative, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, will present four proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e287	On behalf of myself, I would like to propose a representative proposal on forest conservation and logging in the Democratic Republic of Congo. On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on urban environmental agreements. On behalf of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I would like to propose a representative proposal on the exploitation of food waste resources and sewage sludge and some other proposals. And on behalf of Karin Andersen, Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to make a proposal on lynching development in Norway. - That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e299	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e304	On behalf of the representatives of Kirsti Bergstø and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to launch a draft exchange of views on the Tromsbahn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e309	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Then you know what you're waiting for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e325	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Børge Brende and the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner and Per Sandberg will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative, Ingrid Heggø.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e334	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. The right-hand party management will terminate the obligation system that industrial cod trawlers have to comply with in order to be able to fish. The obligations are agreements between trawls, industry and local communities on the supply of fish. It concerns approx. 55 500 tonnes of cod, or 17 pst. of the cod quota. Sandberg's fisheries policy and the scrapping of duties have had the same massive, negative criticism as the agricultural report, which we discussed here yesterday. This people actually won't have any of it. The people want development, they don't want liquidation. Cutting the lines between sea and land is wrong, and it also violates the principle that trawlers were exempted from the requirement to be active fishermen. And they were so that one would actually deliver the catch and the raw material to the industry to secure the jobs and value creation. The Labour Party goes against the path of the Progress Party and the Right. We want to bet on the future of the natural resources that we share. We don't want to liquidate, we don't want to privatize or sell our common natural resources. The fish belongs to the community and should also be a source of valuables and jobs in the communities to which it applies in the future. Where in the Right and Advance Party's proposals do we find tools that will secure the industry's fish and the year-round workplaces?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e343	I thank you for the question. I registered that the Workers' Party has mobilised 100 pst. in the north towards changing the obligation system, and then I have to allow myself to take a little bit of history here as well. If you want development and not liquidation, I think the Workers' Party has to look a little over the shoulder. Thus, from 1970 until 2010, while the Labour Party has largely ruled this country, hundreds of industrial fishing facilities have gone down to 10 industrial plants in 2010. Only half of these have annual production. I now register that the Workers' Party also sent out some proposals in 2012 for tightening up, modernising and streamlining the obligation system. Then the Workers' Party got this answer back, which was the conclusion, that you can't do like the Workers' Party, because then you get negative development and even less profitability and even more liquidation. Then I put down an expert committee that comes to some conclusions with a background in today's situation and development, and I record that the Workers' Party, in the position you are now, when you ask for an expert selection – as when the Workers' Party was behind – doesn't like the answer. I'll record that, and you have to respect that. Then the answer from the Workers' Party is now to bring down new samples, we need to have more knowledge. This means that North Norway, while waiting for the Workers' Party's conclusions, will be even more depleted. The government's proposal is precisely development, creating profitability in the north – creating the situation in the north that North can also take part in the development of profitability. Over the time that I have been a fisheries minister, I have now had three-four coastal riots where I have been accused of raging North Norway with various measures and decisions. The situation is that North Norway has never gone as well as now, never has it landed so much fish in North Norway. Even more fishermen have been given to us in North Norway over the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e356	It's not like the state council here is trying to make it, that the Labour Party's proposal is to pass on something that actually doesn't work. But we're adjusting the obligations and making them much more accurate, to secure the industry raw materials and to secure the workplace and with that value creation. Then I can reassure the council that we probably haven't mobilized 100 pst. in the north of the Labour Party, we're far from it, so it's going to be a lot of fun in the future. The proposals for the Right and the Advance Party, on the other hand, actually look at both parts of the country and fleet groups against each other. A transfer to the smallest fleet of less than 15 metres will also result in more fish coming on land during the high season. It is contrary to the intentions of the duties, which would secure fishing resources all year round. Why has the Council of State Sandberg given up working along the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e367	With all due respect, it's the Workers' Party that sets the groups up against each other in the north. After all, the Labour Party – even the head of the Workers' Party – has been in the north and said that this proposal will lead to more fish landings on foreign hands. That's directly wrong. There is no change in the participant law here, nor is there any change in the marine resource law, as the representative tries to make it as. We all agree that this is the property of the community, and there is no sale of this community's property. If it's a run off the coast, this has happened long before this government's time, with the Workers' Party at the rudder. So the expert committee points to and gives responsibility to a number of governments and politicians who have created confusion in the north. What you see now is you confirm what you've done before. But the Labour Party cannot answer that question. What's this about modernizing? What's the adjustment now? This has been tried before – since 1990 it has been tried, and it is only going in a negative direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e374	It opens for follow-up questions – first Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e379	The Council's response illustrates that it is easier to tear down than to build up. I hear a government council that's more concerned with analysing history than looking forward to it. The delivery obligation is not a general requirement for the trawler fleet. There is an obligation on industry and related ships to obtain a derogation from the Act of Participation. The aim is to strengthen the fishing industry and secure jobs. The Progress Party has programmed that these agreements should be respected. I wonder: how will the Vice-President of the Advance Party say that his contract with the voters is fulfilled when the government will now transfer the eternal billions of the community to a few actors for less compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e386	This is hopeless. The working party mixes first and foremost three duties. Say, as the representative here does, that we transfer resources to one group, is completely wrong. I'm the first fisheries minister to actually take 20 pst. from the trawler fleet previously assigned to them by the Workers' Party and giving them 20 pst. to the coastal fishermen. When you point to the Party Party's program, it's easy to answer. Our party programme says that if these agreements are to be terminated, they must be compensated. 20 pst. is just a compensation – 8500 tonnes for coastal fishermen is 15 tonnes per coastal fish, 100 000 kr per coastal fish. It's almost equivalent to 700 million. kr, which I take from the trawler fleet and move to the coastal fishermen. It is a compensation for the discount that the Workers' Party in its time gave Smoke when he got to make these purchases.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e391	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e396	Lofot fishing has recently ended, and once again there are set records. In the bottom plan for this, there is a sustainable good management, and then we have good fishermen who create values. The intention of the obligation system was to create values on the land side. It's a goal that the Christian People's Party shares, because the fish belong to the community, and the fishermen have a mission for us. The reactions in the north to the government’s proposal for the abolition of the compulsory system have been strong in the political environment in both Northern, Troms and Finnmark. My question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State think of these political reactions from these three states, which are a little bit 'has the boots on'?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e408	I think a lot about it. I think so much about it that I have now actually cleared the calendar in a short time to hold four people's meetings in the north: one in Melby, one in Hammerfest, one in Tromsø and one in Vardø. It is to meet the people, local politicians, regional politicians and organisations, talk to them and, among other things, to talk to them. then present a list of 15-20 claims from the Workers' Party that I will reject. When you promote claims to the people of Northern Norway that the quotas and resources disappear out of the country, as the Workers' Party has done, it has to be refuted. That's not what's in this mission notice. The government has proposed to remove the obligations. We haven't gone into the allocation of allowances, eternal allowances, or allocation of allowances at all. It's in the Eidesen Committee that's out for consultation now. That's why I think it's important, and it's up to everyone, I think, a responsibility to tell people, organizations and businesses in the north what's actually in this proposal, and then I think we'll get another debate in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e413	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e418	The government has proposed that the so-called ‘provisional obligation’ should be removed from the industry’s payment of 100 million. kr. One thing would have been that the centre party with this thought that Sandberg and the government sold the duties at the ticket shop, but while hearing the business committee about the case, something interesting happened. Tommy Torvanger, the group leader of the Nergård Group, said the following: We are willing to go further to get rid of the obligation to give up. What, then, is the background for the Council of State to keep a stall when it comes to selling the duties? He gives so much discount that the jet owners come to Stortinget and are willing to pay more?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e427	What you might say in retrospect is that I might have to write at least 100 million. kr. But I ask the representative Pollestad to look at what the experts are saying in the Committee of Experts, who also wanted the Centre Party to put down. They set the price of the obligation to offer at zero. So they say that the obligation itself is not worth anything. But when you start mixing quota prices, like the Center Party and the Workers' Party do, I realize that people see it as a discount. But that's not what happens. This is the price of an estimate of what the obligation alone is worth. Then all the expertise says it's not worth anything. Then, as the Council of State, I have allowed myself to speak against the expertise, even though I am not an economist. I've told you that 100 million. I see that the industry is willing to pay in. Then I have also recorded that the industry is willing to go beyond 100 million. kr, and it is positive – it is very good. And now when the nutrition committee is going to finish this in the Stortinget, I think that the nutrition committee and the head of the nutrition committee can actually put a higher rate on this – at least 100 million. kr. And if there's anyone in the industry who wants and is willing to pay more, they're welcome to do that, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e434	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e439	I am aware that Per Sandberg is the Minister for Fisheries, and there are many issues you could address in this regard. But he is also the Council of State, and when there is such a dramatic situation for minor asylum seekers at reception, the children are mentally debilitated and characterized by apathy, desperation and fear, I will challenge the Minister of Integration Per Sandberg. The guards, employees at reception and also the UDI Trade Council ask the government to take action to settle children. It has gone from the hope of the children to the fear of the future. Last year, 182 children disappeared from reception. Many of them disappeared in December, and many disappeared in the new year. At worst, I heard a talk by the police yesterday, they were sexually exploited, sold or ended up as slaves. The Christian People's Party and the majority of this house asked in December the government to settle the hardest hit children, those who have limited residence because of lack of ID. The government took time, but before Easter they came and said that we should now settle. It was late, but it was good. Some of the young people who have stayed for an indefinite period of time because they have not received ID papers are so-called long-term asylum children. It is those who were granted a residence permit because the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government of the 2014 Asylum Agreement agreed that the best interests of the children should weigh more heavily. But living in reception is definitely not for the benefit of children. The kids like to live there for four years or more. They must be allowed to start their lives. Perhaps more than asking a question, I would ask the Council of State to confirm that the government's decision to settle children with limited authorisation will also apply to the so-called long-term children of asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e450	There is no doubt that the situation for children and young people in reception is difficult, and the reports of concerns have not been few. So I invited you to a round table conference where everyone could express their views and concerns. Therefore, the government has decided to do something to those who could in any case get a residence permit at some point, so get an immediate residence. It is then signaled to the Storting that, towards the revised national budget, many different measures by the government are being considered to strengthen the care of these receptions. It can be about competence, which may be a little more long-term, but also about the reception structure, something can be done, for example. employing more people. You might also be able to do that by waiting for some of these receptions to go down and get a higher employment rate depending on how many people live in reception. So it's very much about activity, also for these kids. But the government is not willing to give in to the fact that those who do not need protection have a temporary stay until they are 18 years old. But working on reception content and activity is very important in this period anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e457	I am pleased that the Council of State is concerned about action, but he did not answer my question about the long-term asylum children. The idea that one should give a clear signal that at least not finding passports or ID papers should not pay off is an understandable argument, but I will refer to a 2012 Fafo report. It concludes that refusing to settle and integrate is a bad medicine to get people to produce ID papers, because the few are able to get them, and not least, as I said, it goes unreasonably hard on the kids. The point is that these kids are going to stay in Norway. Many have lived in reception, as said, for over four years, and the decision of the Grand Duchy for December applied to all the young people who had limited residence. Therefore, I would challenge the Council of State: Why will he keep his life waiting for those kids? Why won't he settle them when he knows there's such a serious mental strain and dramatic conditions at the receptions, as the Council of State itself confirms?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e462	I think we all agree that living in a reception and living in this kind of uncertainty is a burden in itself. That is why I believe that, in the first place, different measures must now be taken across a broad spectrum in order to try to strengthen the situation of those who live in these receptions. It is crucial now to put action in place very quickly against this. So now we have a situation right over there. 1,500 single minors live in reception, 300 of whom are between 11 and 18 years of age, with limited authorisation related to this with a documented identity. There are now many of these that the government is changing in terms of getting to stay immediately after the first decision, so we're now taking that quite quickly. I also saw that the Christian People's Party had a suggestion about it, so we have at least signed it out. There are a number of other measures... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e467	That's it. There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Sigbjørn Tuscany Valley.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e474	In the evening post today, the main message is about another group of vulnerable children. A woman from Afghanistan who has been compulsorily married as a child has received a residence permit in Norway, but has now been refused to bring her minor daughters here for family reunion because she wants to give them a better life. The reason given by UDI and UNE is that according to Sharialover the danger has the ownership of the children. In aid policy, we adhere to the principle of equality between women and men, while in asylum policy, there are thus elements of the Sharia laws used here. Now this is a single matter, so we can't comment on it, but I'll ask the Council of State basically: is the Council comfortable with his office using Islamic Sharialov, and will he do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e482	Now I don't feel like you use sharia law to make a decision, but you refer to it. Then we can agree on the situation of this woman, who wants to get together and get her children to Norway, and we have a strong understanding of it. It's a single thing, so I'm not going to go into it, but on a general basis, it's like we can sit in Norway and say that there's a hopeless regime and a hopeless lawmaking in Afghanistan, but we can't base that law on practicing Norwegian law to give a practice of staying. Commenting and starting to assess Dad's situation and the situation in Afghanistan, up against this poor young lady who has been wronged, compared to Norwegian law, would of course be wrong by me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e487	Helga Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e492	In the case of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers, a number of agencies and persons have long-term alerts. This has led the Council of State itself to convene a crisis meeting on the situation and to a number of alerts on several occasions. Now I hear the Council of State says that action is urgent, and then I wonder if the Council of State can say what measures it is about, and not least when. Because if it were urgent to sit and observe the situation over a long period of time, it would at least be a good idea to get an answer to that. Will the Council and the Government consider clearer definitions of the kind of care that single minor asylum seekers should receive, as proposed by the UDI? So I would also remind you that the government here doesn't start at scratch. The size has taken a number of decisions in this area, including: accompanying children who disappear from reception. What's the status of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e501	Now it is the representative of Helga Pedersen who calls this meeting the 'crisis meeting'. That's not right either. What happened here was that the organizations wanted a meeting with the Council of State, and I said yes, based on getting a broader orientation and a situation description and, as I said earlier today, getting all the concerns out there for children and young people in reception. Then I have received a lot of good suggestions for action from the organisations. And that's right: the size has adopted a number of measures, which are in the process of working. But then, many of the measures that are on the table, which come from different governments, and which are now coordinated, cost some money. Revised is just around the corner, and it's quite natural to promote these measures there, as you also have to give extra money.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e508	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e513	The removal of the reasonableness conditions for internal flight decided on last autumn by the majority of the population has seen a dramatic increase in the number of temporary stays. But the receptions report a sharp increase in suicide attempts. The despair is enormous among those involved, and record youths do not know if they are being sent out now or at least at the latest when they are 18. Many disappear before that too. Isn't the Council of State afraid that this is putting them under unnecessary strain, that one now contributes to radicalization, and also to great despair and great frustration? Many of these will be easy to recruit for, among other things. IS and more of the type of organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e520	That concern I think should be at the bottom of everyone. That is why we are now working widely and hard to get measures in place, but it cannot be that we adjust Norwegian legislation and regulations. Those who have no reason to stay cannot be allowed to stay. As a result, many more people are temporarily allowed to stay until the age of 18, because there is no basis for case-law, or any other basis, to stay. That practice must be continued. Now if we also relax on these terms, we get into a situation where we almost become a magnet so that even more children and young people spend on a terrible journey with assaults and situations that are totally unsustainable for young people who set off on the journey in this way. So the measures taken by Norway have been effective in reducing the number of children and young people on this type of dangerous journey.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e527	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e532	My question goes to the Council of State Sanner. Very many municipalities have given feedback that the timeframe of a few years that was given for the work on the municipal reform was too tight. Some were also given a deadline because it was too tight a time frame. Now the municipalities of Fosen have been given three weeks to decide whether they will enter a new large municipality. Following the government's presentation of its conclusions in the municipal reform, Fylkesen in Sørde-Trøndelag has commissioned a consultant's investigation and allocated NOK 300,000 to investigate one large municipality in Fosen, consisting of seven current municipalities. The report has been submitted to the municipalities, and Fylkesmann has asked the municipalities to conclude within three weeks, so that proposals for aggregation can be considered in the Stortinget already on 8 June in relation to the government's proposals for changes to the municipal structure. I Prop. 96 S for 2016-2017 proposes the compulsory merger of Ørland and Bjugn. Roan and Åfjord and Leksvik and Rissa have adopted voluntary mergers. A new metropolitan municipality on Fosen will have distances of 13 miles between the extremes and 8 miles between today's municipal centres in Leksvik and Brekstad. A new large municipality will consist of 20 larger and smaller communities. These distances do not indicate that the metropolitan municipality will form a common residential and labour market area in the region. All the municipalities concerned have participated in the investigation and have had thorough processes in the community reform. Some have concluded by merging, and some have concluded by continuing on their own. Rissa and Leksvik have been on the fast track and are well in the process of merging. My question is: is the decision of the County Council on the investigation of a new metropolitan municipality on Fosen and has the matter been dealt with promptly within three weeks in the municipalities concerned, so that decisions can be taken on 8 June, in agreement with the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e547	The answer to that question is yes, and it is also in accordance with the municipality's own wish. I had a meeting with the rapporteurs on the Fosen to discuss the situation precisely because there has been a discussion on the Fosen for many years about joining forces with two and two or building one strong Fosen with one strong municipality, where you can both strengthen local democracy, facilitate jobs and also offer better opportunities to its citizens. With that in mind, I had a meeting with the rapporteurs on Fosen, and at that meeting we agreed that an investigation should be launched to look at the advantages, possibly disadvantages, of one municipality on Fosen, so this is a result of a good dialogue between the Council of State and the rapporteurs on Fosen. We have not taken a decision on that report, but I must state that the report points to many advantages by thinking one municipality on Fosen, among others. by strengthening local democracy, by moving much of inter-municipal cooperation back to a local government, and by driving better social development across the Fosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e554	I thank you for the answer, but I have to say that I am quite shocked that the Council of State believes this can be a proper process. After all, the law of division provides that municipalities should carry out community surveys in the form of referenda, public meetings, community surveys in the form of surveys or in other ways — and then in the context of the treatment of community mergers involving citizens. In this case, the municipalities have no opportunity to involve the inhabitants. The inhabitants have no opportunity to say anything about this matter. It's the most important thing for the people on the Fosen in this decade. It affects all citizens, it will provide centralisation of services, it will provide completely different structures in the service provision, etc., and they have, as I said, no opportunity to comment. Is this really, at the discretion of the Council of State, a proper treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e560	There are probably few places in Norway where municipal structures have been discussed for so long, so many times, and where there have been so many referendums and so much community involvement as just on Fosen. My task in this is to have good dialogue with the rapporteurs on the Fosen, who represent their citizens. We had a meeting, and we agreed that we should now also investigate whether one municipality on Fosen could be a better alternative than going for two: that Rissa and Leksvik go together, that Åfjord and Roan go together – and Ørland and Bjugn. The government has submitted a proposal to the Stortinget, that is the majority in this House. In addition, it was a wish from the municipalities themselves that we investigated one Fosen municipality. It's now done. There will be a meeting at Fosen tomorrow evening, where the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation will also be present. We're going to listen, and I'm going to assume that the Storting concludes before the summer, either with the proposal the government has made, or with one Fosen municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e565	There will be follow-up questions – first Liv Signe Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e570	The work on the municipal reform has gone from crazy to worse to chaos. The right-wing party government with the prime minister of the municipality and the statesmen who loyal gunmen act disrespectfully against the populace of the municipalities. One can see on the timeline: First it was 1 July 2016 absolutely, then it was moved to the cottage, then to Christmas, and now we see that after the government has presented it, then a raw run out in the municipalities in good interaction with statesmen and NIVI Analysis, which is also an important support player. The state of office is on its way back with the Right in government. The County of Sogn and Fjordane have, with their various professional recommendations, drawn new municipal maps that crack in all directions, overlap with each other and vote badly with the terrain. In Bremen, the people are opposed to aggregation, the local government is opposed to aggregation. There was an urgent call to a telephone meeting where a member of the county knew that the county council would recommend a merger with Vågsøy and Flora. So between the two centers, there's two hours of travel time and a ferry. What kind of functional community gets involved with this? Why does the state council force the state council in Sogn and Fjordane to run over local government to create a municipality with such a bad infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e579	Let me briefly remind you that the statesmen operate with background in the leadership given by the Stortinget. The majority is the country's top elected body, and the statesmen have received their leadership from me in the light of decisions taken in the United Kingdom. The people have good local knowledge, they follow up well. I think that, as national politicians, we should give credit to all those local politicians from all parties who work well with the community reform. There are about 20 central party rapporteurs who are now building a new municipality, and they are not doing so because they want to centralize. They do it because they want to create better services for their inhabitants, they want to strengthen local democracy. The alternative to stronger municipalities is centralisation; it's state override; it's more state detail management. Those who are happy in local democracy should be too strong municipalities. I am pleased that there are many central party rapporteurs who are involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e586	Karianne O. Heavy – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e591	I'm from Rissa. Rissa and Leksvik municipalities have from the start been involved in the rapid steps taken by the Council of State in the reform of the municipality and have done exactly what they have been told about. There have been thorough processes, there have been investigations and public meetings and referendums in both municipalities, and 23 working groups have been swinging to set up a new organisational structure in the new municipality. A lot of resources and not least a lot of time have been spent on the work that now results in Inner Fosen becoming a new municipality from 1 January 2018. The councils have constantly given Rissa and Leksvik a lot of brilliance and praise to go ahead and simply to make the decision he wants to make. However, after the additional investigation has now come about a new large municipality on Fosen, there is a lot of evidence that the merger of Rissa and Leksvik might not have been entirely what the council had wanted most. So then I have to ask, has the Council of State just kept a skin process for Rissa and Leksvik?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e598	The representative knows the answer to that question, and of course the answer is no. Rissa and Leksvik have done a good job, they have gone ahead, and they will carry out the merger from 1 January 2018. Then there has been a wish from several Fosen municipalities, among others. from Arbeiderpartit-steerte Åfjord, and also from Bjugn, that one should also look at one Fosen municipality instead of the merger proposals that are now under discussion in Stortinget. And when that desire comes up, it's the task of the Council of State to see if we can facilitate a process that makes it possible. We have. Now this is to be discussed on the Fosen, and then it will finally be up to the Stortinget to conclude whether to go for one Fosen municipality or for the proposal put before the Stortinget, for which it is a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e603	André N. Skelstad - for the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e608	I hear what the two previous ones are saying, and I'm going to follow up on this a little bit. Because I've seen some of it through some national meetings now in the spring party, not least the last national meeting, to the country's largest party, which also now signals that one will join and reverse, and there have been long processes now in the municipalities, and to some extent good processes. How does the Council of State view this when there are now different signals from a number of parties? Can this stop good processes where there has been a lot of work on the part of the municipalities to get to this, precisely because one wants to get to a new municipality – not least on Fosen, but also many other places in the country, not least in Sogn and Fjordane, which have had a lot of good processes? I deeply disagree that there have not been good processes in the county, and the county has its task as a leader. But will not reversing proposals now from some political parties be involved in preventing one last interview and a really good end to the process that has been so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e613	I think I'll answer that question by quoting Sandøy rapporteur Oddvar Myklebust from the Workers' Party. After the national meeting of the Workers' Party, he said the following to the Evening Post: "I mean the Ap management doesn't know what they're talking about. I don't think they know how much work we put into a community merger. If they knew, they would not have proposed a reversal." This is a rapporteur who has done a good job of helping to build a new, strong municipality around Ålesund. And when it comes to building a new municipality, it does not just involve local politicians; it also involves all the employees in the municipalities. That's why I believe it's our job now as national politicians to facilitate, rebuild and back up the many local politicians from all the parties that have done a good job of building new, strong municipalities for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e623	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e629	Human rights are important to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. One of the first messages he sent to Stortinget was in that area. It's an area we as a nation are concerned with that we're going to be good at. We have to be the best in the class of human rights. It's an area where we travel around the world and talk to countries about how important it is. We have an important role as a nation within it with human rights. We are no major force, but our position makes us highly credible in this area, and we play an important role in the world community. In this area, there's a lot going the right way. There are many points of light and a lot of things that are good, but there are also some demanding things that happen. One of those things is what's up in the debate now, that Saudi Arabia has been elected to the UN Women's Commission, a Commission to promote and strengthen equality. We now see in the world an international alliance between Muslim countries, Catholic countries, orthodox countries and Trump, and they face a different view of women than we stand for. It's all about everything from women's right to decide their own bodies to women's independence, women's right to education, women's role in the family, etc. I think it is important that we stand with those countries that mean the same thing as us, and fight as hard for what we believe in, and the issues that are important to women all over the world. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Does the Minister, on the basis of his own commitment to human rights, and the Prime Minister's commitment to women's right to education, for example, think that it makes sense, that it is a good idea, that it is good for equality that Saudi Arabia has been given a place in the UN Women's Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e638	It is absolutely right that this government has taken offensive action on human rights. We promoted the first global report on human rights in ten years, and I think it was the party leader of the Left who was the case rapporteur for this announcement in Stortinget. It is also right, as the representative stresses, that we are actually facing a number of problems in the area of human rights. I had hoped I could say that much was on the right track, but it is not. We actually feel that a good part of the games we thought we had won, also quite close to ourselves, is under pressure. One thing is women's rights and equality. We have now seen that this with sexual health has experienced backsliding. We also see that many of the things we achieved in Beijing during the women's conference in the 1990s are now being questioned. We experience setbacks in freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of assembly. I am very concerned about the freedom of the press, and I have also launched my own development programme to strengthen independent journalists and editors around the world. In the case of Saudi Arabia and, for that matter, Iran, there are two countries that have a totally unacceptable policy in this area of women and equality. In Saudi Arabia, it's like even having to have the consent of a male guardian in order to do a number of things. These are questions that we're taking up with Saudi Arabia all the time. Sweden and Norway may be the two main international countries in criticising both Saudi Arabia and Iran, for example. in reviews that in the Human Rights Council, Norway and Canada are the ones who have raised most cases with Saudi Arabia when there is totally unacceptable female repression.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e647	The Council of State mentions a number of areas and a number of human rights that are being violated, and where there is no right way. Some of the human rights that he does not mention, but which are now broken, are the right to life and the right to absence of torture. We see that in the United States, which is one of our most important and closest allies, they want to execute a number of people before the end of April due to date stamping – the best before-sampling. Necessary drugs associated with executions expire at the end of the month. It's hard to find words that describe a situation where a country kills its own citizens, but it's macabert, it's grotesque, and it should end immediately. My question is: is the minister willing to use his position to address this with our ally USA and ask them to wind up this practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e654	Norway’s view of the use of the death penalty is well known. In addition, we have also taken international leadership in this area. Last summer, I invited you to a large, global international conference in cooperation with the French Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ayrault, here in Oslo, where we gathered a lot of countries to discuss both the death penalty and how unacceptable the death penalty is. Not only do we experience that this is an increasing problem with our allies, but we also experience that the death penalty is spreading in the 21st century. I believe that the death penalty is a totally inhuman and unacceptable way of moving forward, and this was also an important point at the death penalty conference that Norway initiated as a follow-up to the human rights notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e659	There will be follow-up questions – first Ketil Kjeseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e665	From one major act to another: Norway has been six years in China’s freezer box after the Nobel Committee Peace Prize to Liu Xiaobo in 2010. In those years, a lot of ice has melted on the world's third pole, the Himalaya Plateau. Large parts of it lie in Tibet, where in recent times there has been a flare of fire from Tibetan monks who are not at all satisfied with the situation in Tibet. The Norwegian industry has been impatient after its Norwegian relationship with China, gaining access to the world's largest market and increasing growth. Yesterday, I met many Tibetans in Egertorget, who indicated that it was 22 years since the six-year-old Panchen Lama, the successor of the Dalai Lama, was taken prisoner, as the world's youngest political prisoner. Too many in China are in a hurry to resume dialogue with China, including on human rights. When and at what level will this dialogue come?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e672	It is quite right, as the representative points out, that for over six years there was no real political and diplomatic contact between Norway and China. That, I believe, was a situation in which Norwegian diplomacy was also weakened, both in terms of climate, in trade policy, and also in many other important issues in which China sits more and more with a key to solving challenges, peace and reconciliation in the UN context. So the fact that we have now reestablished full diplomatic and political relations with China gives us the opportunity to simply both discuss and talk about a wide range of things. We agreed in Beijing now to re-establish also a platform and political consultations annually between China and Norway, which gives us the opportunity to address also issues where we see differences in things, including human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e677	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e682	In the eight red-green years, there was a persistent criticism from the Right that human rights were not directly enough taken up. With a foreign minister like Brende, we have got a foreign policy that is largely in the middle of the field. It is not a foreign minister who has been the most offensive in these matters. Saudi Arabia is a country where women are not allowed to drive cars and where it is not allowed to open bank accounts. My question really isn't what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has brought up. My question is what the Foreign Minister himself has been talking to Saudi Arabia about, because that is what shows whether the Foreign Minister really has the initiative and the courage to address difficult questions with Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e689	There were some of these premises I didn't quite agree with, but I only have one minute to answer, so I have to go straight to what was the question. I've been visiting Saudi Arabia for almost four years, and one of the main elements of these visits has been human rights issues. I have never met Saudi leaders without this question coming up. Perhaps the most important question in that way is the situation of women in Saudi Arabia, which is completely unacceptable, as I said. You cannot have a situation where women cannot even travel abroad without the permission of the man, have no inheritance, cannot even drive a car, as the representative was in the house. This was addressed in the recent meetings I had in Riyadh, and last night the Saudi ambassador in Norway was in talks in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e696	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e702	There is hardly any country in the world that has a more women-discriminatory legislation than Saudi Arabia. In this Islamic dictatorship, women are systematically suppressed and unofficialised, and it is a bizarre decision to choose such a regime into the UN Women's Commission, which is, therefore, to monitor and promote women's rights and equality around the world. It is not unusual for questionable regimes to be given positions in the UN. Often it is not possible to prevent it either, but this time voting was requested, and Norway was one of the countries with voting rights. And when the occasion came, I would think that it would be natural to contribute to the signal given by the Saudi regime, when Western countries mark themselves against them. I expect that the Foreign Minister can now be open with the Storting on a question that very many wonder about. It is quite simply: did Norway vote in favour or against of Saudi Arabia becoming a member of the Women's Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e711	The representative Lighthouse heard exactly what I said about the conditions in, among other things. Saudi Arabia and Iran with regard to women's rights. But this government follows the same practice as the government representative Lysbakken put in: we do not publish what we vote in secret elections. Neither do our neighbouring countries, such as the United Kingdom. Sweden, which is in the same situation. But it could be interesting, because the representative Lightbaking has chosen to be so tall and dark in this matter, to provide an information related to when the Lightbaking was constitutionally responsible for these questions, among other things. The Women's Commission, along with the Minister of Foreign Affairs at that time. The current Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion Lysbakken was responsible when Iran was elected as a member of the Women's Commission in the period 2011-2015. Did Norway vote against Iran's membership at that time, under the leadership of the Lighthouse? I respect the fact that you don't go out with the public, I don't think it makes the case, but it just shows that this is simply trying to change the Norwegian UN policy in a context where this is about Saudi Arabia. We do not publish it, as Sweden does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e718	If appropriate, this may be answered by the representative Lysbakken after the Questionnaire. Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e725	It might be exciting to try to give an answer to the foreign minister’s questions freely, but the representative Lysbakken will see to it afterwards. But Saudi Arabia is a theme, and it is a popular country in the United Nations. They're not just sitting in the Women's Commission; they're also sitting in the Human Rights Council, and it's a council that has other interesting countries with them, among other things. Congo, Cuba, Ethiopia, Kyrgyzstan and Venezuela. We are aware that it cannot be that there must be one standard in order to be a member of different UN bodies. But the Human Rights Council has something very special about it. For they have one country on every agenda, where one brings some kind of ban noise, and that is Israel. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the kind of behaviour strengthens the UN?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e732	It's an dawning debate on whether the Human Rights Council has a focus on Israel that is greater than that situation should have in relation to other human rights violations. That discussion is in progress. Israel is often on the agenda. Israel also has its answer to, in the case of non-compliance with international law, in the case of the West Bank and so on. But it has to be a proportionality in this. The situation, for example: in Saudi Arabia and Iran as regards the situation of women, gender equality policy, the situation of, for example: sexual minorities, probably aren't as often up. It is a paradox, and I agree with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e737	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e742	The Marine Resource Act is the cornerstone of all the management of our rich marine resources. Paragraph 1 of this promise states: ‘The aim of the laws is to ensure the sustainable and socially viable management of the wild marine resources and the associated genetic material and to contribute to ensuring employment and coastal communities’.» The last part of the formula is not to be misunderstood. There shall be no few people to sit back with the revenues. They're to be distributed, and they're to benefit the coastal communities. Nevertheless, the Minister for Fisheries is doing everything he can to undermine this law. The obligation system for cod trawl concessions was designed to ensure that the value creation of the rich North Norwegian cod fisheries would benefit the North Norwegian coastal communities. But the system has been eroded, watered out and is now useless to anyone other than a few large companies where the owners have become billionaires with this system. This is value creation that would actually benefit coastal communities, but which few have secured to themselves, are contrary to both the marine resource laws and the obligations to deliver. The Minister for Fisheries is now proposing to wind up this system. There's a lot of sense in it, but the special thing about it is that the coastal communities just have to sit back with 20 pst. by this stated, while the rest – 80 pst. I'll give a few rich rowers. Back to Marine Resource Law § 1: How does the Council of State get to take enormous values from the coastal communities and give to a few rich rowers to be in accordance with Section 1 of the Marine Resource Law?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e756	I thank you for the question, and then I thank you for the fact that the representative Fylkesnes has at least a slightly more constructive approach to the challenges. But again I have to be allowed to state that these trawls have received 100 pst. at an earlier date, so that it is at least not the signatories who have given the ‘rich ones’ as the representative calls them, these allowances and these values. It's done under previous governments, and it's actually done also during the representative's own party SV's period for eight years in government without doing anything. This is one of the challenges in the debate, that we mix two issues together. You mix the duty system, which has been promoted now, and then you drag in the Committee on Quotas, i.e. the Committee on Eidesen, which is out for consultation until 28 April, and which is to be dealt with at a different time. There's the issue of quota ownership, eternal allowances, distribution and all of that. It shall be treated during the next grossing-up period likely. So it's not right that I give anything to the rich. I'm taking from the downsides that the representative of the Fylkesnes points to. I'm actually taking 20 pst, 8500 tons, from their quotas and moving to the coastal communities, that is to say to the coastal fishermen. And as I've said earlier today, it's equivalent to 8,500 tons, but in dollars and cents, it's almost equivalent to 700 million. kr. There is then an estimate of what these have been discounted for having those allowances previously under an activity obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e765	The original intention of this system was that it should provide value creation in the Nordic coastal communities. 100 pst. of this would benefit the coastal communities. When the Council of State adds that 80 pst. of this will benefit some riders, it is actually taking from the coastal communities and giving to a few rich riders. That's why the Storting asked for this very system to be reviewed, that one should go back to the original intentions of this system, and then come up with a solution to how to get the whole system on the right keel, so that one actually makes sure that the intention, that the creation of value will benefit the Nordic coastal communities, becomes a reality. Then it is quite unlikely to present it as that the Council of State gives 20 pst. - 20 pst. - to the coastal population. That's 100 pst. which shall be under the control of coastal communities. Then the question is to the Council of State: does the Council of State understand the grievances it has in the Nordic coastal communities when the Council of State will only give 20 pst. to them and the rest of the richest riders?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e770	Yes, I have also replied to that earlier today: I understand the indignation that happens when you promote a claim that these so-called crash-rich, or the quota barons, these that have ran the coast, get 80 pst. But that is not what the proposal involves. The proposal is to remove the obligations. And then I say to the representative of County if he wants to remove 100 pst. from the allowances to the trawl, he may take it in the matter to be dealt with by the Storting. If the County and SV and the Workers' Party want to put down the jet fleet, you have to say that. Then you might want to speed it up in relation to the Committee on Quotas, which is going to be dealt with later. But removing the trawl would have dramatic consequences. Hundreds of jobs would disappear. What's happened now is that only 1.7 pst. by the raw material that is subject to the obligations to be supplied. That's why we have to create a profitability to reverse that trend, which has existed since 1990, as profitability has gone down and depopulation has taken place. Now we propose to reverse this trend – get profitability, more raw materials, activity and industry in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e777	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e783	This coastal uprising, which everyone thinks is established, I don't feel at all, said the Minister of Fisheries to the NRK. It is interesting at a time when coastal uprisings are being mobilised, where people gather on demonstrations, markings, public meetings, and where online communities demand to stop government policies and replace them with policies in the opposite direction, increase in the number of signatures and follow-ups. For it is clear who Mr Sandberg has listened to in the fisheries policy. He has listened to the richest and most powerful and is constantly trying to move their positions forward, while ordinary people, fishermen and coastal communities are losing. People experience being deprived of what has belonged to them. It does not happen with rest pulse - the rebellion is in progress. I do not know if the Minister for Fisheries has begun to feel that outrage, since there are now going to be public meetings around in several coastal communities. But it would have been interesting to know: when is there coastal uprising in the world of fisheries minister Sandberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e788	I've responded to it before. Through my short time as Minister of Fisheries, we have had four coastal uprisings. All these coastal uprisings are led by politicians from the Workers' Party, SV, etc. But the fact that people in the north are worried, I have all the respect, and I understand very well. When representatives from the SV and the Workers' Party talk all the time about the coastal rain, and that as Minister for Fisheries I give values to the rich, who are wrong – that is wrong! These kingdoms, which SV harass all the time, provide an incredible number of jobs in the north and provide employment, which SV now wants to put down – that's not what you're talking about. But I'm taking values from these so-called ray barons, as SV calls them. I'll take 20 pst. I'll take almost 700 million. kr from them, and then I give them to the coast. It's never happened before. Not even when SV put eight years in government, it happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e793	Ingrid Hegø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e798	There is now a temporary arrangement for shipowners, and there is also a possibility of increased quota caps being heard. In fact, increasing quota levels will result in resource accumulation on fewer and fewer hands. I think we can be a few about that. In the case of the proposal for the settlement of obligations by the government, the trawlers shall retain 80 pst. without being obliged to deliver to the land industry. I think we can agree on that, too. Industry and communities need fish, they don't need change. They don't need any more fish on land in the high season. What is Sandberg's proposal that will cause the fish to land beyond the high season, and that one thus secures the jobs, secures the creation of value and ensures that the values will be in North Norway and will benefit the people of Northern Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e803	I'm going to sign out the first one. So I have sent out a temporary operating system for a group to be structured differently, but I am clear and clear in the hearing opinion that this is temporary and will be reversed once the Workers' Party and SV and the Storting have dealt with the Eidesen Committee, completing what will then be a predictable quota system in the future. I'm ready for that. I actually thought the Workers' Party agreed to have an assessment of an operating system within this, but now I am registering the opposite. Yeah, 80 pst. by what the Workers' Party has accepted is continued. Then I say again, the working party has to take these 80 pst. When they deal with the Eidesen Committee, but that's not what we're dealing with right now. If the working party wants to take the entire quota base from trawl, yes, they're free to do it in the next period, i.e. put down the trawl and hundreds of jobs. Then you just have to do it, but not now, because now we're dealing with the obligation system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e810	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e815	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Last Friday, the government presented a new North Region bet. This initiative involves in a number of areas a continuation of the Stoltenberg II government’s announcement of the Northern Areas from November 2011 – and that’s all right. At the same time, I noticed some state councillor Bakke-Jensen saying during the presentation. According to NRK Nordland, he said that it was not the government's main task to step out the course, but to cheer up whoever wanted to. I believe that this statement bears witness to total passivity. If we're going to be serious about the North Region bet, which in my opinion is our main strategic bet area, we need a government that shows leadership. The government must be a driver nationally and internationally, and the results do not come with a political leadership that says they should not leave the course. What we have to do is think about it in the long term and not just stand on the sideline and hie. The concrete thing that the previous government did was do something about the illegal, unregulated fishing and sharing line. Tromsø, Bodø and Alta were strengthened as knowledge cities. Arctic Council got its secretariat in Tromsø, and BarentsWatch was established. That is why I wonder if the Foreign Minister can decide whether it is the government's task in the Northern Region policy to be primarily heaving and what concrete, new measures, ideas and efforts are really in the new strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e828	Thank you for an important question. It is also in the Arctic, in terms of the Arctic, the results that count. The results after four years you have to say are good. We're not satisfied with it, so we want more. That is why we have now presented an up-to-date Northern Region strategy. But the growth in the north is now higher than in the rest of the country. Unemployment in the north, after four years of this government, is lower than in the rest of the country. We've increased the north area bet to 3.4 billion. kr in year. It's a huge increase compared to what was the bet under the red-green. We've increased the north area bet by more than 25 pst. We have also arranged for a new upgrade of the airport in Bodø. As the representative Huitfeldt also got along, there has been great joy in Mo in Rana by getting an upgraded airport. We also experience that there are many new companies in the north. Only in 2015 more than 4000 new companies and companies in the north were added. It's been 25 pst. increase in seafood exports and production. The Polar Code, designed to ensure safe navigation in the north, has been put in place through the International Maritime Organization, where Norway has been a driver. We've increased the funding for the Barents Secretariat and people for the people's cooperation, which is important. We took the initiative on the new FRAM building, which is crucial for polar research and arctic research. We have also organised a competence centre for oil protection and marine pollution in the West Sea and Lofoten. The list is long, and the results are good. I would have liked the Workers' Party to have at least admitted that things were going well in the north, and had shown some optimism.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e843	What was eloquent at the Foreign Minister's answer was that he didn't talk about the North as a strategic bet area. When the current government went on, there was a slogan for the northern regions: from dialogue to action. In the case of ‘from dialogue’, it has been quite successful. There's been less dialogue. But the new actions are hard to see. All the initiatives that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is now presenting are not about spending on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget or their initiatives. This is about the rest of the Northern Region bet, which were initiatives initiated by the Workers' Party. So my question is, is this recycling of old things, and what's the new thing that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has started, in a tense foreign policy situation, with a view to strengthening the northern regions as a strategic area of activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e852	The situation in the north is managed in a good and predictable way over these four years. We must not forget that the oil price is halved, which has made things look something different in the north. For example, the Stockman expansion was dropped from the Russian side. We have had a situation where Russia for the first time since World War II has violated international law in Ukraine. So we've been dealing with a lower oil price and a strategic picture with Russia that's been more demanding. But even in such a situation, we are experiencing growth in the fisheries sector through targeted measures, growth in the mineral industry, and not least growth in the tourism industry, which is experiencing a northerly reindeer. So we feel that growth is good, unemployment is low, and Norway still has strategic direction in Arctic global cooperation. We've even got a sea message and a sea strategy in place, which even addresses the sea space that the Workers' Party is so busy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e859	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e865	Nordic policy has been a national and international initiative at the top of the usual policy. Now I fear that with this Northern Region Strategy, the government is making Northern Region policy more common regional and regional policies, where measures that otherwise in the country will be defined as common policies are produced as a North Region policy – as long as they take place in North Norway. An increase to the University of Oslo is a common higher education policy, it is not a southern policy. The same commitment to Tromsø is defined as a north-eastern policy. When repairing a road or a hospital, it is produced as a north-eastern policy, rather than being about Nord-Norway getting its rightful share of the funds. An offensive north-eastern policy is to take new initiatives. It's not just to pack around a common policy and call it a North Region policy. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: where, in his view, does the distinction really go between Northern Region policy and the usual regional and district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e872	The short answer to this is that in the north, domestic and foreign policies meet. That is why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a strategic responsibility for our Northern Region policy. The representative has probably also found that in recent years there has been some criticism in the north, both from the north, and also in the north, that there has been too little searchlight on what has been done in Norway. I think we've made up for it through a large-scale cultural effort, a doubling of the national road allocations that go to the north, through difficult university and college bets, investing in teacher training, where we now see 40 pst. increase in the search, and we also see that there is increased investment in travel and marine industries. But in addition, Norway has maintained the strategic global leadership in the Arctic. We have put in place the Arctic Secretariat for Business in Tromsø, and we see first of all that things are going well in the north. We have done so, even in a situation of halving oil prices and a more difficult relationship with our neighbor in the east. So I had actually expected the Workers' Party here to be a little satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e879	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e893	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 12, from the representative of Mr Aasrud to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice and Security, who will direct him. Questions 13, 14 and 15 from the representatives of Sveinung Rotevatn, Hege Haukeland Liadal and Geir Jørgen Bekkevold respectively to the Minister for Culture must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e909	My question is as follows: ‘Why has the government chosen to reduce the tax deduction for trade union quotas every year, and thus chose to weaken the incentives to organise, when we know how important an organisational degree is for social development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e916	The government facilitates an organised working life and not least a well-functioning tripartite cooperation. The additional proposal submitted at the time of the government’s accession in the autumn of 2013 shows that the ceiling for deductions from the trade union quota and deductions from professional and trade organisations has been more than doubled since 2005. In line with the Sundvolden Declaration, the Government proposed to continue the limit on the amount of such deductions at 2013 levels, i.e. NOK 3850. In the subsequent budgets, the deductions have been continued at the same level. I assume that the deterioration to which the representative of Wickholm is aiming is the reduced rate of general income resulting from the tax reform on which the Workers' Party itself has agreed. In general, the reduction in the tax rate will reduce the tax value of all deductions from general income and it is not natural to increase the deduction limit to counteract this effect of a lower tax rate. The reduced tax rate from 28 pst. until 24 pst. has not given a large impression on the union deduction either. The reduced subtraction effect is approximately: 150 kroner on an annual basis, or to use the Workers' Party's own favourite calculation exercise – parts over the number of days – 40 øre per day. I can also be so clear that we haven't adjusted the discount with the price rise, then the number is 70 centimeters per day. It's better to raise your eyes and look at the big picture of government tax policy. So far, the government has reduced taxes and taxes by 21 billion. kr, and we have stressed that broad groups of the population should be relieved. On average, employees have been reduced by about NOK 6000, and I think many trade unionists are satisfied with that. The government reduces taxes to make working more profitable. Tax breaks also benefit trade unions. So they all work out well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e933	It is a serious situation when the majority of Norwegian working life is soon at risk of being unorganised. The Council of State well writes in the perspective communication on how important trade unions are, especially the front line, which we know depends on the broad trade unions between the competitive industry and the public sector, how they can take responsibility and make decisions across, how important it is that we have the large associations that depend on having very many organised. When you do not have price adjustments and do not have other measures, you tend to weaken over time the incentives to be trade-organised. Given tax relief to everyone, there is no special incentive to be professionally organised and to take on the burden of contributing to the important tool of society represented by trade unions and the leading trade union.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e938	The main message I heard from the representative of Wickholm now is that it has the effect of reducing the tax. The special thing is that this is one of the few areas where the Workers' Party believes that tax relief is good – but it has to go to a limited group in society. I'm of the opinion that broad tax relief is better because it benefits everyone. The tax reliefs that this government has implemented benefit both the trade unions and the unorganised, and they benefit large groups of people and businesses. I think that is a good way to set up fiscal policy. Then I agree with the representative of Wickholm that it is important that we have an organised working life and a well-functioning tripartite cooperation. It's been the government's emphasis on this entire period. We have a good and close dialogue with the parties, include them on many important issues and have good and productive cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e945	Then I don't think the council heard very well after what I said. In my initial question, I also asked how the incentives to be trade-organised were weakened. An incentive is something you give to someone to do a very special act, not something you give to everyone because it's part of your general policy. I think the Council of State is well aware of the importance of the front-line subject and of the importance of the front-line subject for Norway not to have wage developments as in some other European countries, where the differences between low-wage groups and high-wage groups have increased. It's amazing, what's written in the perspective message. It's just so sad that the Council of State doesn't follow it up with measures to strengthen the incentives for people to organize themselves. The question is, do we want to see any of this revised? Will the Council of State change policy now that she has this revelation in the perspective communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e952	The revised national budget was presented on 11 May, and then the representative Wickholm got an answer to what he had to think about in that context. But that's not right -- the government hasn't weakened the incentives. The government has chosen to maintain the deduction at 2013 level, it has continued in every budget this government has provided. I refer then to the representative's view that targeted tax reductions work. I agree. I just wish the Workers' Party were willing to see that the effect could come in areas other than those related to the union deduction. That is why this government has been busy cleaning up large parts of the tax area – we thought it was necessary. That's why we've removed some taxes, that's why we've reduced taxes, and that's why we've been busy reducing taxes on wealth, which discriminates between foreign and Norwegian owners of Norwegian companies. There are targeted measures, but the tone is quite different from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e962	«The domestic investment is close to 50 billion. only in cyber defence and civil cybersecurity, hospitals and took over the next 15 years. [[double track for Lillehammer]] But none of the state agencies plan together, the counties have no common plan, and the business community is not connected to the potential for industrial development associated with these gigantic social investments. Does the Council have a plan for the modernisation and interaction of such investments so that they can have greater ring-fence and more return?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e969	It is true, as Mr Ketil Kjenseth said, that in the coming years large, important investments will be made in the Inland. The representative also points to the need to see state sectors and cross-border actions in the context. This is a problem that the government is concerned about. As the representative points out, looking at different measures in the context of a regional context could have a greater impact on all investments overall. In the proposal on regional reform, the Government proposes several measures designed to facilitate different management actions and priorities in the same direction. These are measures on which the government cooperates well with the Left. Firstly, in line with the agreement with the cooperation parties, what we are proposing is to merge Hedmark and Oppland. The regional reform implies that today's 19 counties are proposed combined to 10–11. At the same time, the Government has decided that the county councils should essentially follow the new county boundaries. This means that new counties and county councils will enable many of today’s cross-border challenges to be seen in context. Secondly, mergers will make the new and larger counties stronger, with increased capacity for implementation as societal developers, increased regional and national impact and increased coordination. Major counties will also facilitate coordination of regional interests with regard to state location at sub-national level. Thirdly, the government will make regional planning more committed. The Government will strengthen the dialogue between the municipalities and the departments with a view to seeing cross-sectoral issues and national and regional objectives in the context. The Government wants regional planning to become a clearer instrument for interaction and coordination between county and state and between different parts of the state within the county. Fourth, the government will review the state regional divisions in the light of the new county boundaries. The aim of this review is to strengthen the interaction between the state and the regionally elected level. Finally, it should be pointed out that the picture of state agencies and counties not planning together is not quite correct. The railway system and the state road system have had extensive cooperation and co-planning in the development of rail and road, both along Mjösa with intercity track and new E6 and for the Ringeriksbahnen and new El6.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e984	I thank you for the answer and also for some of the measures that one in cooperation with the Left chisels out. Making a region geographically larger does not necessarily create capacity for innovation and industrial development. This competence is not necessarily at the forefront of public institutions, although we are politically and otherwise trying to take the initiative to make public acquisitions more offensive and also to create added value. The defense is in its own way introverted and has its own needs. Cyberdefence is relatively new in Defence as well, while in transport there is a lot of digitisation going on – important there – and the hospitals in Inland are very effective, but at the bottom of research, development and innovation. How is this going to merge and create capacity for innovation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e991	It is important that this type of initiative also comes from local teams. In Oppland and Hedmark, there are strong technological environments in several places, including: around Raufoss, where there are exciting environments that have demonstrated the capacity for innovation and innovation and are ready to create many new, exciting jobs. What we can do nationally is make sure that the structures are not in the way of the good solutions. It has been a bit of a challenge, having had two counties in the interior, that there have been different regional structures. Now we make sure to get it in place, in good cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party. So it's important that we have tools to promote innovation. There's a strategy to get more innovative purchases. That, I believe, is a good tool for triggering more innovation in an interaction between the public and private sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e996	The Councils of State referred to regional planning and to give the new counties a greater and clearer mandate, but also more dialogue with ministries. Today's cooperation parties have gone ahead to try mid-level in the public sector, i.e. in the counties, with attempts in More and Romesdal. But there was also, under the Bondevik II government, an experiment in Uppland, Fritt Fram, where several departments coordinated their funds for regional development and transferred them to Uppland County Municipality for distribution. This is also about the fact that the state may need to give up some mandate, authority, money and resources and trust regional authorities. Is there any government council willing to go further and try to look for opportunities to make the room for action larger locally, and does he trust those who sit locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1001	In this area, the Government Parties and the Left are in complete agreement. We want to decentralize power. We don't want more power centralized as we see from the red-green side. We want to shift power, responsibility and space of action to the local level in an interaction with residents and businesses. So the answer to the question is yes – the Council of State both wants and dares. The good proposals must come up, and then of course we are prepared to have a dialogue where there is a desire to go new ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1009	‘The construction industry has repeatedly underlined the importance of Module 2 in order to ensure the seriousness of the industry. The government decided last year to set up a serious register in relation to the central approval. This is still not in place and it is unclear which requirements need to be met to be approved in the register. Will this only be a company register, or will it become a real serious register, what is the status of the establishment of the serious register and what requirements must be met in order to be approved?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1016	Of course, the government takes seriously the challenges facing the Norwegian construction industry and the labour market in the case of unprofessional enterprises. In January 2015, the Government therefore presented a strategy against labour-related crime with a number of coordinated and concrete measures. A revised version was submitted on 13 February 2017. The strategy follows inter alia: also raise the proposals of the construction industry in the report Simple to be serious. That report came into being following an initiative from me, and the anti-crime strategy has been developed in good cooperation with the social partners and is a good example of tripartite cooperation. The Seriality Register is an instrument that I decided to introduce in November 2016. The register shall be primarily a low-threshold scheme for undertakings where subcontractors and undertakings in the ROT market are given the opportunity to demonstrate their seriousness. We are now working with the Directorate of Building Quality to figure out how to set up the register. It is added that the register will be in operation from 1 January 2018. Before that, we will have a good process around the establishment of the register, including a general consultation of regulations for the scheme, including: authorising the collection of information concerning undertakings. There are several things that are important to me when we are going to set up such a register. It is vital not to create more bureaucracy. At the same time, it is important that the register has credibility. Therefore, the principle principle is that information that is only electronically available and verifiable is initially included. This will mean that the serious register will contain information on the enterprises from the Brønnøysund Registers and on the tax and tax payments from the Tax Directorate. In the longer term, when more information is available by electronic means, it may be appropriate to extend it to other information, such as: on qualifications, HMS requirements, training establishments and other measures. I want to make it clear that this will be a business register and not just a business register. Information on the legality of undertakings will enable the contracting entities to feel more secure in relation to the seriousness of the undertakings.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1027	The starting point for my question is that it is quite soon one year since we had a so-called Section 20 debate here in Stortinget, where we called for the content of the seriousness register. From what I can now see from the response of the Council of State, much of what has been wanted of information and information from both sides of industry – which is also a model for taking social dumping together – and which they believe is important, will not enter the register. Did I get it right? It was a topic already a year ago, and then the Council of State promised to look at how much could be included in the seriousness register.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1032	At that time the decision was not taken. I very much appreciate the impatience of Stortinget, but this is an area where this government has acted, and we have acted in cooperation with the construction industry and the trade unions. It's important. Through the report on seriousness, we developed joint actions, and we are now working concretely to achieve this. When we presented the decision to set up the serious register, it was very well received by both the construction industry, that is, the BNL, and the Joint Alliance, which was pleased with both the decision, that we start with what is readily available, and that this will be expanded gradually. It is important that we avoid more bureaucracy, and it is important that we avoid this becoming a hard-to-practice register. We have to get what's easily available, and then we'll expand this gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1037	It is true that at that time, almost a year ago, the debate took place on 10 May last year, and the initiative was taken in March – no decision had been taken. That was the whole point. We would try to ‘drive on’ the government to make a decision, in line with what the parties want. It is in this case – as in many other issues of social dumping – that the government is dragging its legs, and the opposition of the Stortinget and the social partners must be drivers. But in that context, the Council of State suggested, as far as I can remember from that debate, that it could be possible to introduce Module 2, and now he says they're doing it. Another important point was the contents of Module 2, because it is important that all information that can confirm seriousness, such as: that wages and working conditions and HMS conditions can be met, that this is done properly, and, of course, that the person who has the card is the person who actually has the card – all these elements are engaged in entering the register. So I can just stop with a call and say that I hope the Council of State does what the parties want in terms of quality, because I doubt that the National Association of Construction considers what they propose, as bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1046	I am a little surprised by the tone of the representative Andersen, because this is an area where this government acts, and it is an area where this government has very good cooperation with the social partners, both in the development of the strategy and in its follow-up. That we got the report on seriousness in place was the result of an initiative I took, in cooperation with the parties. And we're now following this up. The representative also knows very well that when such a register is to be kept in place, there is also a need for consultation rules. This has to be done properly and properly. And just to get started quickly and to get this in place, we're starting from information that's available. Whether an entity has paid taxes is one of the basics. Whether it has paid taxes is important for us as consumers to know. That's why this will be a good register, a serious register, and we're set to expand this over time. But it's important to me that we get started quickly and get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1056	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘In Saudi Arabia extreme gender equality and oppression are practised. Recently, Saudi woman Dina Ali tried to escape from forced marriage in her home country. But in the Philippines she was deprived of the documents and, according to friends, witnesses and an international support campaign abducted back to Saudi Arabia, where no one has since seen her. Will the government see it as part of the follow-up to the action plan on social control, coerciveness, etc. to address Dina’s case and similar matters with Saudi Arabia and other affected States?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1065	The core of Norway's work on equality is to increase the room for action of girls and women, self-determination and power. This is the basis for girls and boys, women and men to have equal rights and equal opportunities. The Action Plan against Negative Social Control, Forced Marriage and Gender Harm was launched by the Prime Minister on 8 March. The position of women in Saudi Arabia – which has also been discussed earlier today – is unacceptable. The independence of Saudi women is very limited. The family has a decisive influence on important choices in life. This is put in a structure through the much-discussed laying system, which requires women to have the consent of their male guardian, usually a father or husband, to perform a number of tasks, such as: to undertake a trip abroad or marriage. It's totally surrealistic for us. The significant differences in the situation of men and women mean that women's rights are central to Norway's contact with Saudi Arabia, which I also explained in my reply to the representative Huitfeldt earlier. During my visit to Riyadh in January, the situation of human rights in general, and women in particular, were important topics for the discussions. Among other things, I had: detailed discussions on women’s rights with the National Society for Human Rights, a local human rights organisation. This was also the theme of the political discussions. Norway not only expresses concern about the general nature of society but also regularly addresses individual cases with Saudi authorities — including those pointed out by the representative. Saudi Arabia is under international pressure for its treatment of women. This includes, among other things: as a result of a 2013 decision to make women 20 pst. by the members of the Advisory Council of Shura. In 2015, women participated for the first time in local elections. Some female representatives were elected to local authorities. Female participation in the labour market is increasing and new occupational categories are opened up for women. At the same time, the country's comprehensive economic reform plans recognise that including women more effectively will bring great benefits to society. They have a lot to learn there, not least from our country. We are working with the Saudi authorities to support this development. Among other things, Norway organised a seminar last December on women’s participation in the labour market, where the gender equality agency Hanne Bjurstrøm participated, similarly we have an offer to assist with the study trip to Norway on the same theme. Although the changes in Saudi Arabia are totally inadequate, they are at the same time important signals that the government in the country sees the need for major reforms in this area. One of the points of the Action Plan against Negative Social Control, Forced Marriage and Gender Harm is to develop an international strategy against child and forced marriage. This work is in progress. I take note of the contribution made by the representative of Bohemia in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1080	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his clear views on gender equality in Saudi Arabia. It is important that Norway takes such a clear position. With regard to this specific matter, I have received e-mails, Facebook messages, etc. from even women in Saudi Arabia who are happy to take this up elsewhere in the world and can contribute to a pressure – on which the Minister for Foreign Affairs was in. They say that the regime has now banned the hashtag #SaveDinaAli – which many have engaged in on Twitter – and that Dina Ali is in captivity and can be killed at any time. It's very upsetting to follow this story. She herself posted a message on Facebook about the 13 hours she was locked up at the airport before she was taken back to Saudi Arabia. I would like to ask: is it not important for Norway to signal to the women of the world that such a matter is addressed in concrete terms? [[President clubs]] The Minister of Foreign Affairs said... that a single matter had also been raised. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1089	As I said in my reply to the representative, Norway not only expresses concern about general features of society in Saudi Arabia, but also regularly addresses individual cases with Saudi authorities – including cases pointed out by the representative. In addition to this, we are very concrete in the various agencies of the United Nations. In the Human Rights Council and in connection with the land review of Saudi Arabia, Universal Periodic Review, Norway and Canada are the two countries most concrete and most often addressing these issues, criticising unacceptable conditions in Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1096	I also thank you for the additional reply. In addition to the foreign minister’s concern, it is also of great importance that the direction of the Saudi regime in Islam is tantamount to great environments outside the world. In other countries, such as Norway, this has a significant impact on some settings. When they practice this type of female oppression and allow for forced marriage, it also has an important impact beyond their own borders. So I'm going to ask, the kind of gender equality that we see in Saudi Arabia, which the Foreign Minister is very far from, and which is a very strong violation of the UN Women's Convention, doesn't it suggest that Norway should also consider initiatives other than addressing the issue? We know that towards other types of apartheid, like the one they had in South Africa, the international community went to other steps than just dealing with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1105	What I also strongly emphasised in my answer is that Norway has taken a leading position internationally – perhaps with Sweden – in terms of women’s rights and equality. We're at the forefront, and we have a lot of tools in this way. I explained what we are doing in Saudi Arabia, that our gender equality agency was there recently, that I have also discussed this in the context of two visits. We have also offered resources from Saudi Arabia to come to Norway. But it is also right – as the representative points out – that wahabism, the special form of the practice of Islam, and the influence of these groups in Saudi Arabia, make the country something special. It is important to support the reform forces in Saudi Arabia that are now trying to push back against wahabism. It'll be important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1115	‘18. In February 2015, I pointed out the long waiting times for hearing impaired people. Since then nothing has happened. The Minister for Health referred to the coming Primary Health Service Communication. The message was addressed by Stortinget, and a majority agreed that reimbursement of expenditure on audiographs should be investigated. Does the Council of State intend to follow up the comments of the majority, and what will the Council of State do to reduce waiting time, ensure closeness to the offer and provide hearing rehabilitation rather than short-term treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1122	Sansetap, such as hearing impairment, can have a significant impact on functional and quality of life. For some, impaired hearing can prevent you from living an active life and living longer in your own home and prevent you from receiving needed help. Through several measures, the government has facilitated challenges, including: Hearing should be given greater attention and health care should provide a better range of services to this group. We have presented the Stabilisation and Rehabilitation Plan 2017–2019, and the establishment of primary health teams and follow-up teams will facilitate better follow-up, increased interdisciplinary and coordination of services. Competence 2020 provides measures to improve management and competence in municipalities, and we provide grants to learning networks for better patient trajectories for elderly and chronically ill people. In order to provide a good range of health and care services to people with hearing impairment, municipalities need to assess the need for people with hearing impairment skills. Cooperation with user organisations may contribute to improving the quality of service. Audiographs work mainly in the specialist health service. The specialist healthcare service is responsible for providing guidance to municipal health and care services, including in the follow-up to people with hearing challenges. Audiographs may be needed in the municipality, but the most important thing is to make the best use of available skills by establishing good cooperation between municipalities and specialist health services. The Health Regions Mission Document points out that the specialist health service should have increased use of outpatient services for municipalities. In my view, there are several issues and solutions to the challenges we face in hearing care, in addition to what the Committee has taken on board in its comments. Before finally deciding on how to follow up the Committee's comments, I will see several things in context — including the impact of the actions undertaken and what has also now been adopted through planned actions. I want to go to Prop. 1 S for 2017-2018 come back to how I will follow up the Committee’s comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1133	I thank you for the answer and understand it so that we have to wait a little longer before we get an assessment of whether the investigation should be started – because the majority's comment at the time was to get an investigation, an assessment, of the question. I think it is a pity that the work has not been done and that the Council of State is not able to report more specifically to the Stortinge on what is the reason why the proposal might not go further. Almost two years ago, when we last discussed this in Stortinget, I pointed out that there are nearly 700,000 people living with hearing impairment in Norway who go beyond the quality of life and who go beyond the ability to participate in the labour market. That is why this is important and should be a priority. I would like to reiterate my call at the time: what will the government, in addition to the proposals now mentioned by Höie, actively contribute to strengthening the work of this group of patients and users?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1140	The question was originally what one had intended to do to improve the situation concretely related to this remark, and therefore I also explained in my answer to some of the work already in progress. When the representative in his follow-up question asks me to rule that out, it's a little special, because that means I'm going to exclude the work that's actually going on in this area, in my answer, and I can't do that, because that's exactly what we're working on right now. Then I've told you we're in Prop. 1 will report back to Stortinget how we follow up the comment. In 2018, there will also be results from the monitoring of hearing in the HUNT 4 study, and it will provide us with even better data on the extent of hearing loss as both a health and a public health challenge in the population, and it is also an important measure in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1147	The last time this was up, I pointed out the long waiting time for some patients who need both investigation and custom equipment when they are struggling with hearing impairment. Then the government pointed to several things at the Council of State that they would consider to improve the situation. Among other things, the Council pointed out in its response that the patient counselling service, i.e. the telephone service that guides patients on free hospital choice services, could be assessed more strongly. We haven't seen any suggestions there. Governments pointed out that there might be a need to use more private contract specialists. I fully agree with that. The problem is that things have stopped completely, there have not been any more contract specialists in this field. The last thing was that he pointed to the work on the primary health message, where this was to be re-examined. I and many people have been able to get answers to the question many times, with different assessments of measures. Now we're at the end of this magnification period, and it's time to deliver the goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1154	It is quite right that the measures taken by the representative, which I referred to last time, are important measures. For the Choose processing location, it is up to date and has a completely different user-friendliness now. Some of the 40 million. Dr, as the Permanent Representative points out, has been used for bureaucratic measures relating to free choice of treatment – which is not correct – among others. to improve the system.Select the processing location and the web solution there. As far as contract specialists are concerned, I also want an extension of that scheme, and therefore, in the 2017 mission paper, a clear mission to the health regions has been given, that there should be a significant increase in the number of contract specialists this year. Then it's a big, ongoing work to also reduce waiting times in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1166	‘Since 2004, the Arendal Hospital has operated invasive cardiology/PCI centre. Professional quality at the centre is well documented in national quality records such as Norsk heart attack register and Norsk index for invasive cardiology. Invasive treatment of all acute myocardial infarctions and cases of cardiac arrest, as well as all planned investigations of narrow coronary arteries in patients from both Agderfylken and Telemark are carried out at the hospital in Arendal. Will the Council of State ensure the further development of the PCI Centre in Arendal, for the benefit of patients in the South and in Telemark?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1173	Norway may show good results in 30 days of survival following an initial myocardial infarction compared to other European countries. The government's objective is that all patients should receive safe and good health care regardless of where they live. At the same time, health regions are responsible for ensuring that the population needs treatment in case of heart attack. Mechanical blockage of the years, PCI treatment, is currently being provided at the university hospitals and at the Southern Arendal Hospital. The PCI centre at Arendal Hospital accepts patients with acute myocardial infarction from both Telemark and Agderfylken and provides vital treatment for this patient group. I have obtained information from Health South-East about the PCI treatment at Arendal Hospital. Health South-East reports that Sørlanden Hospital’s board of directors decided in 2003 to set up a centre for invasive cardiology at the hospital. The invasive heart centre was recommended to be located at Arendal Hospital, while the main responsibility for advanced electrophysiology was added to the hospital in Kristiansand. The board of Health South-East decided later that same year to set up a decentralised centre for PCI to be added to the South-East Hospital. This was located at the invasive heart centre of Arendal Hospital. Health South-East also states that there are no planned changes to the PCI function of Sørlande Hospital during the current strategy period and that no changes have been proposed in the work on a new strategy plan currently in progress. According to Health South-East, Sørlanden Hospital has a good cardiological professional environment, which will ensure the further development of patient services as a result of medical development. Patients from Telemark and the Rural Communities are currently receiving PCI treatment in Arendal Hospital, and no changes are planned to do so. I see no reason for that to change either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1186	Thank you for a good and clear response from the Minister for Health. I think it was necessary after a meeting that got quite a lot of attention down in South Africa, a meeting that the Minister of Health himself witnessed, where some in the trade community in Kristiansand more than suggested that a wanted PCI centre. It would necessarily have resulted in a shift and a closure in Arendal. It makes sense that the PCI centre is located in Arendal, precisely because it then covers a larger area and has a impact field of approx. 500,000. I think the answer is reassuring, but I'm also going to challenge the Council of State a little further. We have now had a process linked to Sørlanden, Flekkefjord and also to Arendal, with a large emergency hospital. How does Höie think about future hospital in Arendal regarding offers and functions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1191	I have had business meetings this week and made what I want to say is a map of how the emergency hospitals will be in Norway in the future. The development plans for health regions, which are development plans with a perspective on 2035, shall be taken into account. There should be no doubt now that in the South there will be two major emergency hospitals, one in Kristiansand and one in Arendal, and there will be an emergency hospital with emergency services at the current level in Flekkefjord. The meeting to which the representative referred – I am really pleased that the representative asked this question, so that we were able to clarify the impression that was created there – was a very positive meeting, and the hospital in Kristiansand described how they have well copied the model with package sequences in their heart centre. So it's absolutely right that one of their doctors suggested that it would be easier for them if the PCI center were in Kristiansand. But that's not the case, and it's their responsibility to provide good patient care even across hospitals in the South.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1196	I'm very pleased with that clarification, but the reason why one gets a little worried when such statements come, is that we have enough stories and experience that when such an opinion comes, it is often adopted by the hospital director, and then it becomes a board of directors of the matter, and then it becomes that way. I am very pleased that the Council of State has set foot on Flekkefjord, and found that Sørlanden Hospital Arendal is also going to be a major emergency hospital, in line with the medical plan. It gives reason for hope for the future, but it also gives a clear direction and a clear order for both hospital and board. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1201	Thank you for that. I fully agree with that. I believe that this has now been clarified will provide a better basis for an even closer and better cooperation between the trade unions. Now the structure is solid, and one can work both to further develop the services at the different hospitals and to ensure that there is good patient flow between hospitals when necessary – even within the heart area, where the functions are shared between several hospitals. Then it is also important to get good packaging, not only within the individual hospital, but also across hospitals. I hope that the decision that has now been taken will be a new start for a more positive and constructive cooperation in the South around the development of the Southern Hospital, which I believe is a very good hospital, which offers a good offer to the patients. But there is still potential for improvement in cooperation between the different units.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1211	‘In the National Health and Hospital Plan, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left say that ‘[a]cut hospital shall have an acute function in internal medicine, anaesthetics in the 24-hour period, planned surgery, readiness for surgical assessment and stabilisation, and management of acute events’. The term ‘acute hospital with assessment and stabilisation competence’ is now used in decisions on the closure of the whole/parts of hospital emergency surgery. What does ‘surgical assessment and stabilisation’ mean and what does ‘assessment and stabilisation competence’ mean?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1218	For at least 20 years, many hospitals have lived with the dying ghost hanging over them. This concern has now been eliminated by the follow-up to the National Health and Hospital Plan, to which the majority of the population have joined. Now the hospital map of the future is drawn, and it ensures both larger and smaller hospitals spread throughout the country. The government promised that no hospital in Norway would be closed as a result of the National Health and Hospital Plan, and we have kept that promise. We have also promised more political governance. The size of the population has now, through the National Health and Hospital Plan, provided guidance on the definition of emergency hospital and on how to draw up the development plans. I now take political responsibility by finally deciding the structure and not hiding behind health regions, but based on the leaders given in the National Health and Hospital Plan. On Monday 24 April, a business meeting was held in all health regions. The purpose of the meeting was to clarify the processes and decisions of regional health companies on emergency services in hospitals in line with the National Health and Hospital Plan. In the meeting, I decided that Flekkefjord Hospital should maintain the emergency surgical response they have today. The Narvik Hospital was continued as an emergency hospital with surgical assessment and stabilisation competence, trauma and maternity services. The hospital will have an orthopaedic daily service for planned operations, as well as urological and gastro-surgical daily services and outpatient services in addition to normal daytime. Odd hospitals will be continued as emergency hospitals with emergency functions in internal medicine, radiological services, laboratory services, scheduled surgery, night shift anaesthetics and outpatient clinics, such as the hospitals in Nordfjord and Lärdal. This implies the cessation of acute surgery. These decisions provide for emergency services in hospitals. Work is now continuing on the development plan for hospitals based on current emergency services and the changes adopted at the enterprise meeting. With regard to the requirement that emergency hospital be prepared for surgical assessment and stabilisation, this has been resolved in different ways depending on local assumptions and needs. Many emergency hospitals still have a full emergency surgical response, while others use personnel and watch systems designed to deal with complications in scheduled surgery. Some hospitals have solved this requirement by using resources in the healthcare business as a whole. The most important thing is that the personnel are trained for situations that may arise, that it is clear where the patient should receive final treatment, and that there is availability for competent prehospital services.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1229	Surgical evaluation and stabilisation were not a topic of the national health and hospital plan. It is not a national trauma plan that describes the type of requirements that will be imposed on hospitals that they have to meet in order to respond to injured patients. The requirements for security services for surgeons, anaesthesiologists and operations personnel are then set with regard to the competence to be provided through selected courses. My question is how the government can let decisions apply to hospitals now without defining what surgical assessment and stabilisation skills actually mean. What has been used as a trajectory in the national trauma plan is ‘dream function’, emergency hospital with ‘dream function’. How can a person have such competence without being a surgeon?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1236	Hospitals included in the trauma plans of regional health establishments have different roles and levels in this context. What is important is that these roles — and the level and range of services to be provided — are well known and defined locally in each hospital, so that the prehospital services know which patients should be there. In Nordfjord and Lærdal, acute soft tissue surgery was completed in 2005. Therefore, Health Executives have extensive experience in surgical assessment and stabilisation systems, so that surgical patients are transported directly to hospitals in a safe manner. These include: the experience gained from this, which forms the basis for the recommendations underlying the national health and hospital plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1243	I sit here with a letter that Torbjørn Wisborg has written to the Health and Care Committee in connection with matters that have been in Odda and Narvik. He is the leader of the National Traumatology Competence Service. He warns against introducing new interventions, such as ‘assessment and stabilisation teams’, and he writes that this is to trick patients and the population. He can't say how many lives it will cost, but someone will. His point – which I address, and which I do not receive answers to – is: How can a person have assessment and stabilisation skills in Norwegian hospitals when the government simultaneously forbids hospitals to have surgeons on standby?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1248	The last thing I don't know is in. What is important — and that is precisely what this process has done — is to have a very clear understanding of the roles of the different acute hospitals in the regional and local trauma plans. There is already a wide variation in hospital content. In those hospitals that are the least and are defined as emergency hospitals, the contents are based on the experience from Nordfjord and Lærdal, which are good experiences. In Health, the evaluations of surgical patients are carried out in the vast majority of cases prehospitally, through conferences between primary, ambulance and AMK, where the watch-keeping surgeon is involved as necessary. At Nordfjord and Lærdal, medical emergency teams are established to take advantage of the overall competence of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1258	My question starts with a quote from the Minister of Defence: "'I've said before that openness is important to me. And then I don't mean openness as a honorary word, but real openness.' This was said by the Minister of Defence during a speech in Oslo Military Society. It is well known in the defense that the majority of the trade-military process is completed in the month of April/May. Is the government afraid that their down-priority of land power will be such a controversial theme in the election campaign that it will continue to keep the professional-military assessments secret after the elections?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1267	The long-term plan of government and our budgets to date are a clear step forward for the Army and the Land Authority, and we will look at how we can make land power even more credible, relevant and strong. There will always be a need for strong land power in Norway. We have a large territory, both at sea and at land, which we must be able to defend and protect with all the capacities we have. It has been even more important for us to do something about this, in particular the great maintenance promise for the Army and the Home Protection now being implemented in 2017, because we have spent many years under-financing and down-prioritying from the period when the party of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum put in government. There's an integrated process in the department. The Chief of Defense was commissioned by me to conduct a law enforcement operation in November 2016, and precisely because it is an integrated process, the Chief of Defense keeps me up-to-date on how the work is progressing. There is also a working group under the direction of Brigadier Aril Brandvik, who is responsible for the day-to-day work. It is unclear to me where the representative Schlagsvold Vedum has got it from that the trade-military process will be completed in the month of April/May, because it is by no means correct. Until now, information has been obtained from the working group. They have analysed, they have assessed different alternatives, and thorough simulation and testing have been carried out. In the coming months, work will enter the synthesis phase and, by October, the working group will add it all together to an overall assessment and recommendation. Then I'm a little surprised at how little the representative of the Battle of Vedum has followed, because there's something that's been working on the land estate, it's openness, through large crowd meetings both at Elverum, at Bardufoss and in Oslo. All of the unupgraded material, assessments, analyses and dilemma management are openly available on the Defence website. A lot of time is spent with both organisations and others on the part of the working group to discuss possible scenarios. That profile of transparency will continue. The working group will publish an up-to-date status report before the summer, which will contribute further to what I would say has become a good and informed debate on rural power. It will raise the profile of the dilemmas and issues assessed by the investigation and it will also discuss different solutions. At the same time, we plan to conduct a larger open information meeting where the content of this status report will be discussed. Then we present the results of the work that we are doing as a unanimous increase in the 2018 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1280	The crucial thing for a country, a basic premise for a country, is its security and preparedness. It is the primary task of any government to ensure defence, to ensure an operational and good police force and now, in this situation, to ensure home security and an army capable of securing the Norwegian territory. That is why there is a high-level political issue, where there may be different political assessments of what kind of defence to have in the future, which capacities it is important to have. What is important then is that those who are going to vote know the different priorities of the different parties, how they feel they should defend the country in the best possible way. Therefore, I would encourage the Council of State to be open about what priority you want to do for the Army and Home Protection, before the elections and not after the elections. Why hasn't the Council of State set up a process where you can get the real options and get a real debate? These are the country's second most important themes before the elections of 11 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1285	It is precisely the debate that the government and the Ministry of Defence have put forward. That is why we have been fully open to all these assessments, and that is why this status note will come before the summer, as the basis for a debate. But the representative Schlagsvold Vedum clearly forgets that what's in the long-term plan of defence is a historic commitment to the defense, after many years of chronic underfinancing that has made us in a situation where we had a huge and long-term maintenance seat, which we have had to spend huge sums to fix. Only in 2017 will we strengthen the defence budget by 2.2 billion. kr, and it is far more than the representative's government in its time considered necessary for eight full years. That's why this government is a change of pace for the Defense. So the Stortinget has unanimously agreed that the result of the Land Powers Administration will be presented in the context of the 2018 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1292	When traveling around Norway now, there is a great deal of unrest in much of the country's power, both within the Army, with the major investment challenges that lie there, which have been pushed on before, within the Homeland Protection Agency, which is experiencing a decline, and within the Maritime Protection Agency, which, on the one hand, is to practise more but which is to be built down and gone. My question to the Council of State is then: When she sees what is happening in the Home Office, which is to be stepped down by 7,000 men, when she sees that the Sjöheimewert is to be further built down and completely gone, does the Council of State see it as a bet, and does she think it is a minimum level, the number that was put in the long-term plan? Is she open to further reduce after you have a mercenary, or will she strongly reject it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1297	First of all, we're going to make big investments in the Army in the period up to 2034. It is set by approx. 33 B.C.E. Total investment in land power, and we're making a lot of investments right now, while we're standing here. For example, I have just started to conclude a contract on fighting air protection for the Army, a transport tank for the Army, while the CV90 investments are still going on. There's no degradation of Homeland Protection. We're strengthening the Home Guard budget by 16 pst. in this budget. We invest more than half a billion dollars in field cars, which have stood and become bad and useless over very many years when the Senterparteen was in government. When I hear the representative of Battle Violence Vedum talking, I think he might have listened to what the Army and the Home Guard said in the period when the Central Party was in government. Then Liv Signe Navarsette admitted, as she said to the website "Never more" last year, that she thought it was not necessary to focus so much on the defence when they were in government. It's very clear to us who took over that defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1307	‘The proportion of people employed by the population with a migrant background is the lowest since 2008. The decline is greatest in the group of people with backgrounds from Asia and Africa. Why does the government fail to include more immigrants in the labour market?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1314	I could have been short and said: Why didn't the Workers' Party succeed in including more by sitting eight years in government? But that's the story. The answer is that the Norwegian welfare model depends on high levels of professional participation. The government is just as concerned as the other party when we see that the proportion of employed goes down. High employment is a prerequisite for sustainable welfare development and very important for good and forward-looking integration. Earlier this year, a comprehensive investigation, «Inclusion and confidence, long-term consequences of high levels of immigration», was presented. It is a measure of what past policies have resulted in. The study now shows a great need to increase employment among groups that have, for a long time, had relatively weak links with the labour market, and this is a challenge that the government is addressing most seriously. But this is nothing new. This has been a situation that Stortinget and former governments have been familiar with for a long time – the Brochmann Committee now, the Brochmann Committee I, I myself produced a sustainability report in 2013 that pointed to exactly the same, the perspective messages have pointed to this earlier. So it's nothing new that you haven't had a policy that has included and made demands in getting more people to be integrated. But the government has already taken many important steps. We continue to pursue active labour market policies and have increased the number of job vacancies from 12 000 to 17 000 in three years. The number of action places for people with disabilities is about 58 000. Immigrants from outside the EEA are a priority group in allocating this type of measure. The government has also proposed changes in social security schemes for refugees, which should increase non-discrimination and stimulate more people to get into work. The proposals include the elimination of special supplements, special rights, for refugees and, inter alia, the removal of special rights. introduce housing requirements of five years for cash support, old-age pensions, disability benefits and redundancy benefits. Over the last few years, the government has been working hard to streamline and target integration policies and is now implementing a number of measures to achieve this. This is also a work that is widely anchored in Stortinget through Meld. St. 30 for 2015–2016, From reception to work – an effective integration policy. The government has also initiated a significant work programme of the introduction programme and will shortly submit to the consultation a proposal to amend the introduction law accordingly. The aim is that the use of labour and education-oriented measures should always be included in the work of the municipality at the level of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1333	Employment is a prerequisite for the well-being of the future, and that's exactly why it's worrying that we have a government that doesn't seem to be very busy getting more immigrants into work. No matter how many or how few immigrants come to Norway, it is important that they meet with expectations of participation in the labour market. We have to make demands, but we also have to make demands. What's interesting is not what the Council of State is now saying about these questions after almost four years in government, but what the government has done, and what results you have to point to. And unfortunately, there seem to be four lost years in terms of immigrant participation in professional life. Implementation and action is requested. What is particularly serious is that while the level of employment among immigrants is falling, the government is weakening many key measures to get immigrants to work, the Norwegian training kits in receptions, the increase in cash support, and the reduction in the treatment and recognition of the training of new arrivals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1340	In the meantime, I feel that it is almost useless to promote and make actions that have been implemented visible. In particular, it concerns the representative Helga Pedersen from the Workers' Party, because it is of no use, I could have listed a 10–15–20 measure without the representative Pedersen having taken this up. The answer is always that this government does not do what the Workers' Party has done for decades in government – that is, nothing. I frame up again: in order to succeed in including more immigrants, it is vital that working life also opens its doors and gives immigrants and refugees a chance to try their way into work. A fast track is being established. There are a number of measures this government has taken that the Workers' Party has never thought of. But at the bottom of this, there's something important. While we politicians can adopt a number of framework conditions that make it easier to get into the labour market and be included, there is also a significant responsibility on individuals who are allowed to stay in Norway, to ensure that they get a job, education and to be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1349	Many of the measures the government has presented to the UK are measures of which there is a broad political consensus, but it does not help when cutting into other measures that are important to include, and progress is certainly in the wrong direction. I fully agree with the Council of State that it is not possible to decide that anyone will be integrated, and there is also a great responsibility for those who come to Norway to be included in the Norwegian community. But it's funny to listen to Per Sandberg, who is an avid critic of what he calls Swedish states, where he believes that the responsibility lies exclusively with the Swedish government. However, when we see developments in Norway going in the wrong direction, it is not the responsibility of the Norwegian government – after the Progress Party has been on guard for four years – we owe it to others and go back in time. Will the Council of State continue to do so, or can we expect enhanced efforts and results at the end of the government period of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1358	During the rest of this period of government and in the next period of government, when we are in government, the party will continue our strong efforts to stop further massive immigration into Norway, which the Labour Party has provided, which has given us enormous challenges in the field of integration. We will continue the massive, reinforced efforts to include and get jobs for those who have stayed in Norway. This is related. I now register that the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and SV, wants to liberalise asylum policy during the next major period. This is not the case for the Progress Party, and it is also linked to the success of integration. Immigration to Norway and integration are interrelated. This has never been understood by the Workers' Party, but this is what we see now. This government has both worked with and gained control of immigration, and at the same time we now have a massive effort to integrate the people who have actually been accommodated in Norway. It is absolutely necessary for us to succeed in getting sustainability in our welfare model, now and in the future, that the Progress Party continues in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1369	‘The key to good integration is to learn Norwegian and get to work. As the Brochmann II Committee pointed out earlier this year, it is of great importance for the community to integrate immigrants into the labour market and remain active. In other words, they must not just get out of work – they must stay there too. What does the Council of State do to ensure that refugees to be integrated into Norway come to work, and what does the government do specifically to ensure that they stay in work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1376	Actually, I could have repeated the answer to the previous question, because it's the same content. But I repeat, and there we are at least 100 pst. agree that the Norwegian welfare model depends on high labour participation. That is why this government is pursuing an integration policy which, far more than ever, facilitates the fastest possible contribution of those who are staying in Norway. The aim is for more immigrants with a refugee background to enter the labour market quickly and to have a stable link. That is why, in recent years, we have been working to streamline and to a far greater extent target integration policy, and we are now implementing a number of measures to achieve this. This work, as I also said in my previous answer, is broadly anchored in Stortinget through Meld. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Among other things, we have established five integration receptions, such as: shall facilitate faster participation in work and society for the newly arrived refugees. We are now also introducing an electronic solution for self-registration of competences in asylum recipients, which has been completely absent in the past. This monitoring will be followed up by career guidance, which we, among other things, samples in these integration receivers. The government has initiated a new and clearer work-correction of the introduction programme, while facilitating even more education for those who need it as part of the introduction programme. I will shortly send to the hearing a proposal to amend the law of introduction, so that the use of work as educational measures should always be included in the community's work on the individual's plan. Now we're going to start a trial of modular education for adults at primary school. The experiment targets a number of different groups, including newly arrived immigrants, and includes training that replaces current training in Norwegian and social sciences and primary schools for adults. The purpose of the experiment is to speed up the transition to work and secondary education. I recognise the debate on Norwegian training – I have been involved for so long in politics. So it took almost 20 years for the Progress Party to accept much more in this room for forced Norwegian training. Now this is in place and accepted by others. Now the Progress Party is in government, and I believe that the measures, the requirements and the responsibilities that we place on the basis of the integration policy of the future are the right ones for sustainability.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1389	We see in the VG today that a new study is being presented on refugees in the labour market. The conclusion of the study is that integration goes wrong both in getting refugees to work and in getting them to work. The size of the population has been concerned with advancing the treatment and recognition of the education of the newly arrived refugees — which was also the subject of this report — so that they can start studies as soon as possible at the level they belong to. However, during the budgetary procedure last year, the government decided to cut 10 million. NOK to NOKUT, which just provides recognition of foreign education. Does the Council of State see that it is difficult to understand that cuts are made in the most obvious measures to ensure participation and integration, when the answer could be quite the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1396	There are a number of measures to be taken; there is diversity. Some measures then have to give up in order to get something better in place. I have also registered what is in the VG today. But this is nothing new. Having a challenge after five to ten years is nothing new. This is pointed out by Brochman I, it's pointed out by my sustainability committee in 2013, and it's pointed out in the perspective statement. This has been pointed out on the inside and out during all the years I have been sitting on the Stortinget. That the Workers' Party has suddenly discovered this now, it is new. This is nothing new. But then we have also been through a period when the labour market in Norway has actually become a little tighter. It's getting a little bit tougher, and we've had massive leave in the West. It's a tougher labour market. Of course, it's a little bit of an impact on immigrants, who have different needs for qualification to get in, it makes sense. But there's no rest cushion. Then we just have to put in even more measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1405	There is nothing new for the Workers' Party, what was in the VG today. What is new, as the report shows, is that in the last five years more people have not got into the world of work, and that more people are not in the world of work. Then it's important for the Workers' Party to figure out what we can do to change the statistics that this looks like, because this does not contribute to good integration. The Council of State stated to the VG today that ‘a significant self-restraint’ is important for the integration work. The Council of State also said that one cannot adopt good integration. Here in the house a large majority believes that we can also adopt good integration. During the process of the integration message last year, we agreed to bet on a fast track, as the Council of State was about to do in the past, to get refugees to work. The rapid track would apply to the refugees closest to the labour market and as part of the action, the government promised that the authorities would take action and that the parties would actively contribute to job creation. The question then is: what concrete action has the Council of State taken to put in place the fast track, and how many are covered by such a system today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1414	I have said in several of my answers now that there is extensive agreement in this room about Meldning. St. 30. Several measures are being taken. But with a background in – and that’s what I also correspond to today’s VG – the fact that you have a development after five to ten years, which is pointed out today: it’s nothing new. It's been the situation for a long time. Now, we are trying to focus on groups – to sharpen – in order to reach the individual groups we see are exposed and who may not have qualifications, with the job trail and a number of other measures. This is not done overnight. I get that, and I think the representative also understands that. It has not been long since decisions relating to the notification were taken. So this is going to be done. So we are in a situation where, in 2015 and 2016, we have had a significant immigration to Norway, which includes: is due to the signals given by the Workers' Party at its national meeting in due time. Then this government must make sure to increase its efforts, in line with what is the result of previous immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1426	‘Increasing use of hired and non-resident labour places pressure on Norwegian wage and working conditions. From employees at Kværner Verdal AS we are told that the rental industry sets the standard for the rest of the industry. From elsewhere we hear examples of designed ‘tariff agreements’ in order to circumvent limitations in the Labour Environment Act on renting and working time. This increases the risk of social dumping and impairment of workers’ rights. Why has the government not done anything to face these problems?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1433	The government has done a lot to combat unprofessional and illegal employment. Following dialogue with the social partners, the government presented its own strategy against labour crime in 2015. This effort is reinforced by the revised strategy presented in February of this year. Two new co-located centres are now being set up to combat labour crime, in Bodø and Tønsberg, respectively. These are in addition to the five already established. Cooperation between the public authorities is significantly strengthened. Efforts are being made in cooperation with the entire organised labour market. The equal treatment rules for hiring out staff undertakings are an important tool to combat unprofessional pay and working conditions for hired workers. An evaluation of these rules shows that the legislation has led to more rents than before actually obtaining pay and working conditions that they would have obtained in the event of direct employment. In addition, I have recently started working with the social partners to solve various problems in the lessee area, and it is natural, among other things, to do so. questions about rental contracts are addressed in this context. Another important measure in the strategy against labour crime is the implementation of the enforcement directive in Norwegian law. The Enforcement Directive has a number of measures and instruments to help posted workers obtain the pay and working conditions they require in the performance of their duties in Norway. This also applies to rentals from non-resident manning enterprises. The Directive focuses on stricter documentation requirements and more and better administrative cooperation between Member States. In February, the Stortinget adopted amendments to the Working Environment Act which will contribute to the implementation of the Directive. The Ministry is now working on the necessary changes to the broadcasting regulation. I also remind you that we have regulations on the publication of collective bargaining agreements in an increasing number of industries, including in the shipbuilding industry, which impose mandatory conditions of pay and working conditions for both Norwegian and foreign workers. I believe most strongly that the government is taking these kinds of issues seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1444	I hear what the Council of State says, but the problems continue to increase. It shows that we need to have measures that work effectively on this issue. More people experience uncertainties at work, and this hinders the freedom of each individual, the development of industrial skills and productivity. At the same time, we have a government that thinks it is positive with several temporary posts, and the government has not really come up with any grip that actually works against the development that we see today. In general, the government has policies that weaken workers’ organisations, which challenge the serious and organised working life. I have a question for the minister who comes directly from the workshop club at Kværner Verdal. Does the Minister of Labour see it as a problem that the leasing industry in Norway is causing loss of productivity and competitiveness, resulting in pressure on Norwegian wage and labour conditions, and is the Minister of Labour willing to further regulate the industry in order to secure Norwegian industry and the Norwegian labour market model?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1451	Firstly, I would like to refute the fact that this government believes that several temporary posts are positive. We have amended the legislation to facilitate temporary employment, but we also see that the increase in the number of temporary jobs is very small. It's pretty stable. Studies from Fafo show that. We also see that a majority of those temporarily employed are hired permanently after one year. It is this government that has proposed amendments to the State's employees' law, precisely to limit the country's ability to employ temporarily over time, because the state has been the great sinner here. I agree that in some industries we see an unfortunate development in the use of rentals. That's also why I asked the parties in February to make concrete representations on how to solve that problem. They have provided written feedback. Tomorrow we will have the first meeting with the parties. I am prepared to achieve a better solution than what we have been able to achieve today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1458	There can be no doubt that the government wants more use of temporary posts. One of the first right-hand sides has done every time they have been given the opportunity to exercise government power is to amend the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, such as opening up more temporary posts, while in other areas where action is needed to ensure an organised and serious working life, the government is less eager. Other countries are being regulated in this area, and today the Workers' Party is promoting 30 proposals for a more serious and organised working life, among others. to limit rentals. The majority has also discussed proposals to limit rent earlier this year, but the government parties have voted against our proposals. Could the government be willing to consider our proposals that were presented today, so that Norwegian working life can take some further steps, or do we have to wait until after the election and for a new government before anything happens in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1465	We will consider all the good proposals, including those that the Labour Party had to make. But again, I would like to point out that the government has taken many steps to contribute to a more serious working life. I mentioned initially in my main response, among other things. the strategy and the revised strategy against crime at work and other important actions. It is worth remembering that Norwegian working life is good. Nine out of ten thrive at work. Fixed positions are the general rule. There is a cross-political desire for permanent posts to be the general rule. Now we see the evolution in this period. More jobs throughout the job vacancies, permanent jobs are still the general rule. We see that of those who are temporarily employed, the majority will be given permanent status after a relatively short period of time. But as I said in my first answer and in my previous answer, we see some challenges in what's going on in some industries, and that's also the background that I've contacted the parties and asked them to come up with concrete insights into how we can solve that problem. I look forward to a good cooperation with the parties to solve what is the problem, without therefore destroying what everyone is for, namely the possibility of being able to rent in if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1477	This question, from the representative of Rigmor Aasrud to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice and Security, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1482	‘In the report ‘Strengthened sharing of information between control agencies, police and private sector in the fight against crime. The identification of legislative weaknesses and proposals for possible legislative changes’ from 1 December 2015, 15 legislative amendments and measures were submitted, and proposals for review and evaluation of certain provisions, preventing effective crime control. The report followed the strategy against labour crime. How many measures have been implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1489	Labour crime is a threat to both workers, law-abiding businesses and society. I would therefore like to thank Mr Aasrud for his commitment to this important topic. The establishment and establishment of co-located units against labour crime — the a-crime centres — was an important contribution to the fight against crime at work by police and control agencies. The establishment of a-krim centres made the need for some legislative changes visible in order to improve access to information sharing between the different departments. This was also seen in the report ‘Strengthened information sharing between control agencies, police and private in the fight against crime. Identification of legislative weaknesses and proposals for any legislative changes.»; Let me first make it clear that this report contains recommendations and proposals for action. All 15 actions have been assessed and followed up, either in their own processes or through work already in progress. In addition, some measures have been considered unnecessary as they are already taken into account by current legislation or by existing guides. These proposals address actions affecting the responsibilities of different departments, and I have therefore obtained information from other departments concerned. The proposals relating in particular to the Ministry of Finance require legislative changes. The Ministry of Finance reports that the Directorate of Customs and Fees and the Directorate of Tax Administration were commissioned in the spring of 2016 to investigate further the measures. The Directorates' investigation has recently been sent to the Ministry of Finance for further consideration. When the Department has completed its work on the proposals, they must be sent to the hearing before they can be submitted to the Grand Duchy. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs states that they consider it appropriate to amend the Nav Act in line with any changes to the Administrative Act. However, as far as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is concerned, current legislation does not create any significant specific barriers to the information sharing of control rates. Several proposals have addressed changes to the rules of the Administrative Act on professional secrecy, which fall within the scope of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. There are several complex, fundamental issues that require careful investigation and are therefore included in the ongoing work of the Administrative Law Committee. Finally, I would like to stress that it is the impression of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that working together against labour crime has led to a better flow of information between the departments and has made the departments more aware of the possibilities already existing in the current legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1506	I thank you for the answer, but I have to say that the only specific government council can report after two years is that some new investigations have been started. As I understand it, none of the measures have yet been put into practice, and the closest state council will do well, is that there were new labour-criminal centres – the government can thank the Stortinget for their budget proposals being voted down. That's the way the new centers came in and were funded. I would like to ask the Council of State specifically, because the plan says that the working group is to identify whether there are weaknesses in today's legislation that prevent effective fight against crime: with the response given by the Council of State, does everything seem to be all right?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1513	As I just explained in my reply to the representative, it is such that it is necessary to initiate quite extensive investigation processes in order to clarify important issues that are being affected in order to increase the exchange of information between the agencies. So it's a fact that some of the issues that have come up, it turns out to be established, good solutions to. It is also a fact, which I suppose the representative understands, that in cases where legislative changes are required, there is a process that obviously has some timeframes around it that suggest that they cannot be implemented immediately. And then it's also a fact that on some points you meet fundamental balances, which require you to go into just those balances before you can make a comprehensive proposal to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1520	I thank you for the answer and am familiar with the fact that it may take time to produce laws, but in two years at least you could have managed to make the balances and meant something about how to proceed. But let me put a specific question to the Council of State: One of the proposals mentioned in the report concerns a general clause, introduced in Sweden, where the administrative body can share information with other administrative bodies on its own initiative. Does the Council of State think that such a general clause would be appropriate in Norwegian law?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1527	Just this kind of relationship I'm going to have to evaluate carefully. On the one hand, we want to have a good sharing of information between the agencies, and on the other hand, there is a different situation in the various agencies with regard to the interests of people – the police have quite wide opportunities to share information when it comes to investigating and preventing crime – but it is also about the trust that citizens should have in the various agencies. It's these principal considerations that we have to do. So it is that in many of these areas it will require quite extensive investigation work. It must be consulted and it will be submitted to the Stortinget. However, I can assure the representative that processes are in progress and, where appropriate, proposals for legislative changes will also be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1543	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1557	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1571	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-26.ana.ud420e1585	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
