ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e28	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the West-Agder province: Theodor Barndon Helland For Akershus County: Mani Hussaini For Hordaland County: Toril Selsvold Nyborg For Oslo: Reasons Creek Almeland For the South Tribute County: Nisrin El Morabit The representative, Mr Solfrid Lerbreck, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e61	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Nisrin El Morabit and myself, I have the honour of presenting a proposal for a representative to raise the salary of the government of the corresponding Prime Minister. And I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on behalf of the same representatives – Audun Lysbakken, Nisrin El Morabit and myself – on measures to ensure a clean working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e68	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e84	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The first main question is from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e91	It has probably been demanding to be employed by the Statistical Central Bureau over the past few weeks. But one good thing has come to light, and it's that we've been told how important it is that we have an independent Central Statistical Agency. I traveled around in my time as Minister of Foreign Affairs and explained that it is part of the success of the Norwegian social model that we have had an independent agency for statistics and research that has provided knowledge of important decisions in our country. The statistics and analyses of the SSB are essential for good planning, evaluation, debate and research. Much of what is happening in our society that we emphasise as a pillar of the Norwegian model – labour market policy, tripartite cooperation – is based on this work. I think we've been promised that as a side-effect of the battle that has been. In the last few days, we've actually seen some of the most dramatic events in the recent history of the SSB. It is an organisation that is faced with major challenges in relation to the authorities, who have ownership of the organisation, and also the working environment internally. The Prime Minister said to the VG last week that it is not a prime minister's job to respond to everything that is happening in society. That's right, but independently of statistics, I will now give the Prime Minister the opportunity to respond to things that happen in society and that happen on her watch. A lot is said, and a lot will be said about this matter. The size should look carefully at it, at what led to the SSB's director hearing from the finance minister that she did not have her trust. The Director is employed by the King of State Council. That's why I want to ask the Prime Minister to clarify – I think it's useful for the follow-up: can she give the government the reason that Christine Meyer no longer had faith and had to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e100	Let me start by fully agreeing with the representative Gahr Støre that it is important that we have good statistical production. It is important that we be able to monitor developments in key societal areas – environmental development, labour market development and economic development issues. That's why it's important that we have good statistical output. Therefore, the Statistical Central Agency is an important organisation in our society. It is a professionally independent enterprise, administratively controlled by the Ministry of Finance. However, although the SSB is professionally independent, the Ministry of Finance may give general instructions on research areas to be prioritised and on areas to be given lower priority. It is also the case that the SSB has an important role for several departments in providing the statistical data base for decisions and in following the development of policies. The question of the organisation of the Statistical Central Bureau is a topic that has been addressed to both the Ministry of Finance and myself, in the form that representatives in the Contact Committee raised concerns as early as February about whether the plans for reorganisation would affect statistical production and the delivery of the main major models that the SSB is responsible for following up. That's why this has been on the list of things we've been following. The Ministry of Finance has followed this closely in the management dialogue. That governance dialogue has now been published, so that people can go in and see what the result is. What has been the background to the final situation we had last week, which has led to the resignation of Director Meyer, is the concern that the organisation would simply go beyond the statistical production that has been absolutely necessary for decision-makers in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e111	What we now get a picture of is that there has been a process of concern for the development of the Statistical Central Bureau over a long period of time, and one can ask whether the governance and dialogue with this agency has not been weak when it comes to it, in mid-October, that we got a drama, that we have got a version against version, words against words, what the director could say and could not say, and whether this agency is independent. It is tempting to ask how this handling could go so wrong. How could the government sit on and watch, get the alarm messages – also the Prime Minister confirms that she has got it – and it went all the way to where it ended? I really want to repeat my question when she talks about the ability of statistical production: can she sum up, use a last minute to answer the following questions: what was the concrete reason why the government didn't trust Christine Meyer?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e118	It is a challenge in the question of how to give guidance signals to an independent organisation, an independent institute, even if it is subject to a department. The steering signals have been of concern. The questions raised by the social partners raised by other ministries to the Ministry of Finance as the Ministry of Ownership of the SSB have also been communicated to the SSB. In the explanations now made public by the Ministry of Finance, which will be in response to the questions raised by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the United Kingdom, it was clear at some point that it would be necessary to implement a new reform – a new change in the tasks of the SSB – and before the Statistical Division, which has also been entrusted with looking at the Research Department of the SSB, had completed its work. That was when the emergency brake was pulled from the Ministry of Finance, considering that the signals given before that time had not been followed up by the management of the Statistical Central Bureau.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e125	It opens for follow-up questions – first Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e130	The dispute between the Advance Party and the SSB has been ongoing since Nesvik attacked the SSB in January 2016. In February 2017, the Political Spokesman of the Progress Party considered that the SSB is systematically misinformed. On 24 October it exploded when Minerva told me that Erling Holmøy was being relocated. October 30, Meyer meets Siv Jensen and is told to stop the reorganisation. The next day, Meyer says that she complies with this requirement. But for 11 days she is refused to go out with it. These days are used well. The Youth of the Advance Party believes that the degradation of Holmøy causes most to ask questions as to whether you can trust the SSB. Hege Storhaug says we need to get a new SSB director. The promoter's party's immigration policy spokesman suggests that Meyer's political stance paints the statistics produced by the Agency. VG writes that the SSB management has trained an immigration critical report. Day after day goes, and Meyer is refused to go out and say that the solution has been found. Why does the Prime Minister think that this is a sound way of dealing with a director whom she herself has appointed in the Royal Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e139	An image is drawn of the fact that the changes taking place in the SSB are related to a single researcher or to the question of the relationship between the Progress Party and immigration statistics. I believe that today's headlines from LOs and NHO's chief economists clearly torpedo that angle in the debate. There has been a concern about the major challenges we have, if we cannot produce the statistics that the Technical Calculation Committee needs, that we need for climate research and to follow climate change, whether we reach our emission targets, and in other areas of employment. Therefore, there are many signals related to the reorganisation, whether it will provide enough on the basic statistical issues that we need, which have been the cause of this. Such a time scenario in a discussion – when the media start discussions, when it becomes a big focus, it becomes big – with regard to the question of why the Minister of Finance thought the solution was not finished, it was because there were still discussions between the Ministry of Finance and the management of the SSB, and this the Minister of Finance must be allowed to answer in the questions sent to the Ministry of Finance by the Control Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e148	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e153	It's a pretty strong diet to read what's in today's business, and the criticism that comes from LO and NHO. Both have expressed strong concern about the whole reorganization since winter, and yet this process has been allowed to continue for almost a year. Both believe that there has already been damage to the independence and trust of the SSB through the process that has been carried out and that it is urgent to stop. Both believe that it should have been stopped, and that the SSB has not in any way managed through the process to respond to how they are going to solve their societal mission. Then there are really two questions that come to mind. One is whether the Prime Minister seems that this process has been managed in a sensible way when concerns from LO and NHO came already this winter. The second is: will the Prime Minister not only ensure that the reorganisation process is put on hold, but that it is immediately stopped and concluded?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e159	All input from the relevant ministries, relevant organisations related to the SSB model development and statistical production have been recorded, discussed with the SSB and have been part of the governance dialogue of the Ministry of Finance. That means it's not like you haven't done anything. However, this does not mean that there can be no need to reorganise and change the Statistical Central Bureau. For every organization, it may be necessary to go through and look at best practice. It's not sure today's organization of the SSB is perfect, as it looks like the Center Party has decided. I think there is a need to make changes, but the pace has to be different, that is, the work of the Statistical Institute, and then there has to be security in that process so that we can deliver on the major economic models, the great results on statistics in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e164	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e169	We're incredibly lucky here in Norway, which has a central statistical agency that people trust. That's not the case everywhere. Therefore, it is essential not to shudder or reorganize away from this trust, nor should it be strengthened. Over a year now, there have been warnings and concerns about the changes in the SSB, in particular whether the SSB will be able to fulfil its role in societal planning. In addition, we see that key researchers have stopped, and there has been long concern about whether important disciplines are being reduced and research is being coordinated. The government has not in ours given any signals to the Storting that they too are concerned about this. Christine Meyer was employed with a mandate for reorganisation and efficiency, both in the job call and in the letter of assignment. So when was the government worried about the reorganisation? Why? And has it related to research, and not just to statistical production?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e176	It is such that there is a need to look at all public institutions. As a government, we have an ambitious research policy, a research policy that says that we should be up to the European level and that we should be at the forefront in several areas. The SSB has both a research mission and a statistical production task. In their statistical production mission, they manage large models for both the social partners and different ministries, and they have specific tasks to do so. We believe that the SSB can be operated in a better way than it is today. We can raise the quality of the future. But the pace and way in which it is done must ensure that we can solve both of these two societal tasks: good research, but also statistical production – model management at all. The Ministry of Finance has continuously followed up the recordings that have been made in the management dialogue with the SSB, but there is a balance between the detailed management of an independent body and when you see that you have not taken the signals about the concerns that have come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e185	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e190	One of the figures that the SSB gives us is the proportion of GDP in Norway that is public. It gives us some major challenges in how to convert the public sector. Now we have seen how to hire a leader in the public sector who is told to carry out a reorganization, and how it works. Norway needs to review many efficiency improvements, reorganisations and ensure that it has good processes. Does the Prime Minister think it is easy to recruit public sector leaders to do that kind of reorganisation when we see the process that has been in the SSB?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e195	I am sure that being the head of the SSB is an exciting task for people who are engaged in both research development in economics and in having a good decision-making base through good statistics. In this way, it's an exciting job to have, and it's an important job in Norwegian society. Yes, it's important to convert, but conversion is a demanding subject, it's a demanding way of working, and one has to make sure that one manages to solve both societal tasks. Here the concern has become that one of the societal tasks has looked like it would not be able to find good solutions, and the pace has been too high for us to have the certainty to get the decision-making base that all of public Norway, but also all the organisations and the social partners need. Therefore, it was clear that you had to follow up and ensure this in the conversion process. So a few weeks ago, you felt that things were going too fast. It was not possible to see that you were able to deliver on both assignments, and then you have to take a different pace.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e202	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e207	This round shows that there is a lot of noise – from many sides. One thing is immigration, but it is so important in terms of the climate or the social partners, which has been mentioned, because the SSB produces so much important statistical bases that are used in so many important contexts. The Prime Minister confirms that she believes there is still a need for more efficiency and reorganisation in the SSB. That's why I'll challenge her on what she thinks. What is it that she wants to reorganize? And what is the government doing now to ensure that the SSB's important role in society is safeguarded?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e214	I am concerned that the SSB should have a high international competence in research. They will be involved in developing better research based on an amazingly good statistical basis, which you already have. They shall be involved in the provision of economic models that are accurate and that take account of actual economic developments. Here's a really big question about how it's going to be. It's not going to be politically balanced, it's got to be a professional discussion about how we best describe economic development and not some models that add up to it. Most of us who have studied social economy have been trained with slightly different traditions and spinal reflexes for how well these economic models actually hit. But it's a professional discussion, not a political discussion. We have to make demands that you work out the best professional basis. Then we need to have good statistical production in order to be able to follow the development of society in Norway, know how, for example, to do so. the development of economic inequality, the evolution of environmental emissions, ensuring that we have good statistics on demographics, which are fundamental decisions in all these areas. The Government is committed to ensuring that it has a clearly defined mission to the SSB, but also that they should be able to function well and solve both tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e221	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e227	I will address a question that I know the Prime Minister is concerned about, namely the digitisation of Norway. Digitalisation is going to be crucial for innovation and increased value creation in the years ahead. At the same time, digitalisation is a fundamental prerequisite for the availability of digital infrastructure and the most basic digital infrastructure is high-speed broadband. If not in place, digitisation can contribute to the creation of large, new divisions in Norwegian society. Already today, we're getting big digital divides because there's so much difference in what people have of broadband. About one million of us Nordics are standing without an offer of high-speed broadband. Broadband is rapidly expanding in Norway, but geographical disparities are increasing. It's 98 pst. the population of Oslo has high-speed broadband access down to 40 pst. in some districts. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this is unacceptable. High-speed broadband will be as important in the years ahead as the mains network was 50 or 100 years ago, and it must be accessible to all. Unfortunately, the government has proposed halving government grants to broadband in this year's government budget, and unfortunately it does not promise well. At the same time, the government maintains that 90 pst. shall have high-speed broadband within three years, i.e. 2020. How has one thought that it will be achieved when public spending is halved at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e236	I fully agree that broadband, fibre and tape are, in general, among the most important aspects of digitalisation. This is why there are three different types of action in the State budget that are important to achieve it. The contribution to broadband development in districts where the market does not deliver good enough own solutions is mentioned, but it is so important that we commit ourselves by entering as a partner and helping us to get more so-called black fibers, foreign tables and fibers into Norway, which means that we get much more capacity and can realize some of the major projects that many have to build digital industries in Norway, build data storage capacities and industry in the future, which are an important measure. The third measure in the State budget is to have own grants aimed at expanding an alternative core network, for the most vulnerable of today, is that almost all is linked to one network in Norway. We have fractions of an extra net, but it is not well bound together. Therefore, it must be an important priority in the future to build a new alternative core network, so that the vulnerability of our entire digital structure, which also affects the vulnerability of our entire society, is reduced. That's why there are three important elements in what we're working on in the state budget, and two of them are new this year. We target broadband development grants. We have strengthened efforts where the needs are greater. Increased grants have been granted to those with the best projects. For example, Sogn and Fjordane, Hedmark and Uppland have received significantly more State aid during this period. It's almost doubled in Hedmark. That's 70 pst. Increase in Uppland and, in fact, 276 pst. increase in grants to Sogn and Fjordane, because we have seen who has good projects and where there will be a great impact of the projects being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e245	Cores and foreign tables are of major importance. However, none of the two measures alone will contribute to countering the digital divide that is emerging in Norway, for it is the digital class division that is the major problem. That's where the expansion of high-speed broadband is so important. The commercial do a lot good, but the market alone can never solve this problem. In addition to the countryside, we know that there is often a splinter layer that is needed to ensure that everyone has broadband – a splinter layer where those who live there, the builders and the public work together. I understand that the Prime Minister will make a little percentage calculation of what is bet. From all over the country, more than 500 million were applied for. kr for broadband measures last year. It was over seven times as much as the government actually put in the pot. So it doesn't help if a percentage can make nice numbers. What we need now, is a good thing to build out the ten to twenty-last percent of broadband. Now we have the chance to avoid creating a digital class distinction in Norway, and we do not end up with big differences between cities and districts. Will the government contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e252	In Norway, we have chosen a market-led development of broadband. It has given better results than if we had chosen a more guided system. But then you have a subsidy at the top of the areas and places where you can see that the market does not deliver. There are two different parts. One is income, which may be a little poor in areas that are more populated. The second is the cost. Perhaps the most important thing we do to develop broadband even more in Norway is the changes we have made in the digging regulations. By being able to simplify and coordinate the burial order for all the municipalities in the country, instead of the fact that there is different legislation in each municipality, the industry itself has estimated that a cutter between 15 and 25 pst. the costs of each project. It is important not only to look at the support that goes beyond the State budget, but at the simplification process. When you invest for over three billion. kr in 2016, is between 15 and 25 pst. a substantial contribution to reducing the cost of broadband development in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e259	It opens for follow-up questions – first Ivar Odnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e264	State Council Solvik-Olsen answers questions from the Central Party earlier this year that if one is to achieve its goal of 90 pst. Broadband coverage to the people, it requires a government contribution of 3.7 billion. kr. On 14 October, NTB could tell that the Right of Nikolai Astrup refused to use so much distinction in broadband development. Both I and the president come from a state where the coverage is of the poorest in the country, but the zeal is great after more expansion. The municipality now puts shilling on the table. The county council betreg, and the people around stands at ease, but the state is now failing in the fissure layer. About the Prime Minister, that's $69 million. kr for 2018 is a good contribution to the Minister for Transport, and when the Minister for Transport himself says that the need from the State is 3.7 billion. kr, how my Prime Minister that one then will come to the goal of three years with this vow rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e271	We've increased the coverage since 2013 from 63 pst. up to 80 pst. Now. This means that the market delivers a lot, and with the support we have, which also helps the representative's family to get more money in recent years for broadband development, results are provided in terms of coverage. There are always priorities in a government budget. We have prioritised making sure that we can realize the big talk about getting more black fiber to Norway in order to establish large international hubs to have the data industry in Norway, to provide an alternative core network, and at the same time we are building more broadband. Then we cut the cost of the industry that builds the broadband. It also means that there will be lower costs to extend cables and have measures in rural areas with fewer users. This will allow the market to go further in delivering the solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e278	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e283	This government often talks about rusting Norway for the future. We are going to modernise, digitize – yes, even ‘robustize’ the government has talked about in documents for Stortinget. Nevertheless – not only is the support for broadband expansion cut, but it is halved – from 2017 to 2018. It might be interesting to ask the Prime Minister: what is so modern and forward-looking about halving support for broadband development? Or to be more specific: given the answers given by the Prime Minister to the two previous questions, it is then that the need to build infrastructure is halved from this year to next year, and that there is no need for more money than the close 70 million. kr as the government turns up for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e288	What I'm happy about is that the money on the state budget is going to be spent more efficiently. If you cut the cost by between 15 and 25 pst. through the new digging order, that means that the money goes beyond the money under the red-green rack. At that time, there were higher costs because the digging regulations had not been coordinated for all municipalities, and different standard requirements were met around each municipality. There is always a desire for many budget lines in the State budget. In this state budget, we have set up a considerable number of new measures relating to the realisation of a digital Norway, among others. with better infrastructure, by ensuring a better core network, by making sure that we start with a public commitment to realising new, large fibre connections to the country, which means that very many of the big ideas, which I often hear the Workers' Party have that Norway is going to be the leader of the digital world, can actually be realized. These are clear priorities we've been making, and at the same time we're building broadband across the country. I think with these measures we're going to reach 90 pst. in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e295	Jon Gunnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e301	The left is very pleased with the appropriations for new cables from abroad, so the government should have, that they deliver on it. We had a question last Wednesday to the Minister of Transport from Trine Skei Grande about broadband development in the country, and it was said that the market is working well. But we know that when we offer digitalisation, it has to be assumed that we actually manage to put it into practice, and my question is, are there enough providers, and is there something the government knows about the new technology that we don't see in others, because it is now, maybe, going to be so much cheaper?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e306	To the last question, it's a very concrete change that makes it cheaper. It's not technology. It's that instead of all municipalities having their own regulations, how deep you have to dig, how far down you have to coordinate that work, we have one common rule for the whole country that allows you to do the same standard work everywhere. It says the industry itself cuts between 15 and 25 pst. It's not high tech, it's actually digging with excavators.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e311	Arne Nävra – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e316	Broadband development is essential for business development in the districts and for housing in the districts. We know this, but then there's one point that's been very sub-communicated, and that's that it also has great environmental benefits to expand broadband to the districts: less commuting, people can work more from home. We've heard the numbers, the measures of the government, 90 pst. development by 2020 of at least 100 MB per second. These are ambitious objectives that we support. But how in the world can this be achieved with the rate of expansion proposed – and the rate of allocation? There are major geographical differences. For example, Carrot in Buskerud, my county, has 12 pst. Coverage of what we can call real broadband. Does the Prime Minister think the market is district friendly?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e321	The market contributes to faster and better development than many countries that have tried more state-driven models. We've increased from 63 pst since 2013, i.e. over the last four years. Coverage to 80 pst. coverage. So it's been delivered significantly. That's an increase of 17 percent points, to be absolutely correct, over those years, and so we have 10 percent points left to achieve the objective of 90 pst. Here, we believe that the options are the policy we pursue, both with grants, with how we make municipalities more able to organize this work and have more competence in it, and what we do with the digging regulations. And then we also have to give priority to some other things, like getting an alternative core network. Because it won't help any of us if we're as vulnerable as we are today -- and part of the web we have, all of a sudden, is being knocked out because all of our digital vulnerabilities make a lot of things in society stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e328	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e333	Differences in power and wealth in Norway are increasing. If we let the differences increase today, we'll have a colder society tomorrow. This government has – systematically – a policy that will strengthen the evolution of the coming years. Social dumping and increasing inequality in pay and working conditions are one of the main threats to cohesion, community and small differences in Norway. The liberalisation of working life is devastating, and there is an urgent need to withdraw control. Today, 10,000 trade unionists go out on strike against the recruitment agencies. The requirement is a ban on recruitment agencies in the construction industry around Oslofjorden. The manning industry was meant to replace permanent workers in the event of sickness and leave, but instead we have been given a liberalisation that has led to full release, and in the construction industry we now see that contracts for the unemployed are breaking down. The employment agencies are now the largest employer in many construction sites. They replace fixed employees to such an extent that it does not make sense to talk about permanent employees being the general rule. What are the consequences of that? Yes, there is unsafe working conditions without guarantee of annual income to live on, lack of jobs for apprentices and on vocational training and, in addition, daily breach of rules on working time, overtime and rent. A survey conducted by trustees in the Joint Union shows that in 59 construction sites in Oslo and Akershus, 73 different manning companies were represented. This development must be stopped. It is about the distribution of power in the labour market, it is about productivity, it is about security and security, and it is about good working days for workers. They need a steady job and stable income. The Working Environment Act opens up the possibility of prohibiting the rental of certain groups of workers, or in certain areas, for which it provides for important societal reasons. Will the Prime Minister use the opportunity she has, and will she consider stopping this development through a ban on recruitment agencies in the construction industry around Oslofjorden?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e346	I agree with the representative Lysbakken that there is a worrying development, especially in Oslo and Akershus, related to the construction industry and hiring out of labour. That is why the government has also sent several proposals at the hearing this summer. I just want to say that we agree that this is a concern. I am very concerned that this is not the whole picture of the Norwegian labour market. It's just between 1.5 pst. and 2 pst. by those employed in the labour market who have been hired. It's all the annuals that come from manning agencies, including the non-residents, that make it a national figure. But the situation in Oslo and Akershus is that between 14 p.m. and 18 pst. the annual construction works are actually carried out by hired craftsmen. That's a big deal. It also means that there will be challenges for the model we have just for working in the workplace, to ensure that apprenticeships and a number of other measures are important. That is why this is also a concern for the government. We want to find solutions in this area that can improve conditions in the construction industry in particular. The proposals we sent out at the hearing were to define ‘fixed employment’ in more detail in the law and provide a basis for temporary employment in employment agencies when the employee is to be hired to fill real vicariates, and then a proposal for a quota for the number of leased-in units was outlined. The hearing period has expired, and many recordings have been made. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is now in dialogue with the parties to the process for further work on finding out the right measures. Many call for a ban on rentals in general in the construction sector. This seems to us to be likely to help make it too strict – that it will be difficult to deal with, but also too strict in some areas. But we agree that we need to find solutions, and we are willing to work with the parties to find them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e357	I understand that as a no from the government to the demand that the strikers make today. There's a discussion about how much of the rent is. This survey, which was conducted earlier this year by trustees, operated with figures up to 40 pst. in the construction sites they visited. After all, the measures which the government has sent out at the hearing have been slaughtered by those who know where the shoe is printing, not least from the Joint Confederation, who wrote in their letter of consultation that, firstly, the proposals do not guarantee predictability of work and income, but, on the contrary, can give a competitive advantage to manning undertakings and lead to more renting. So those who organise the strike here today believe that the Prime Minister's proposals can actually make the situation worse. Is the government willing to think again about the proposals they have sent out? And if one is not ready for a general ban, will the Prime Minister assess the ban on the manning industry in demarcated areas, as they strike today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e369	It is that when we send proposals to the hearing, the hearing is quite real. In this context, we have sent out proposals for consultation in order to try to find solutions to a relationship that we are also concerned about, and for which we believe we need to look at solutions. Then we have registered that some of our proposals have been accepted, while others, for example. The issue of quotas has created criticism both from that side, that is, from those who do not want so much regulation, and from those who believe that it does not regulate well enough. Sometimes it will mean that it might fit with such a measure, but we see that that might not necessarily be the answer. For this reason, the Minister of Labour has contact with the parties and with the industry to work on different measures and to look at how we can address them. It seems very easy to make a general ban in a region or other for rent. But it is clear that there are also projects that need to be hired to take peaks, parts of the activity, and that will not have permanent employees in all parts of the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e378	It opens for follow-up questions – first Solfrid Lerbreck.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e384	In Norway we have had strong and proud trade traditions for many, many years. Working as a tradesman with a professional letter has been seen for decades as a safe way to go. We have a collaboration in professional training that is world-class when it comes to producing skilled workers of good quality. Young people like to get a job that gives them a safe job in the future. At finn.no there are now 154 handicraft settings in Rogaland. 130 of these are in a staffing agency. What will the Prime Minister say to all newly formed, good tradesmen who go into finn.no and see almost only jobs that do not qualify for mortgages and who get the message: welcome to the B team in the world of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e391	In fact, many companies say that they have challenges in getting enough labour in Norway. I came from the Agenda North Norway conference in Mo in Rana yesterday, where the economic survey survey of North Norway shows that labour shortages in North Norway, both skilled and general labour, are currently one of the main challenges for growth in the north. That means that there are some serious companies that say they do not get enough craftsmen. That's why they're very concerned that they're also educating themselves. We have made changes to the Action Plan on Labour Crime, which we have cooperated with the parties to prepare, among other things. in order to have fewer sub-levels of contracts and to make demands for apprenticeships in public acquisitions and tenders in areas in order to contribute to the greatest possible and greater part of this labour market being organised. But there are many places where there is also a shortage of graduates... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e398	Time's up! Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e405	I note that the Prime Minister claims that she is concerned about the development of working life. At the same time, government policies are tailored to reinforce the challenges and developments we see, with the weakening of acquired rights, cutting trade union deductions – which weaken the possibility of working life with organised workers – and increasing temporaryity. The result will be a working life with more unprofessionalism and more work-life crime. In the State budget, we can read the following: ‘The feedback from the Labour Inspectorate, the Labour and Welfare Act, the police and the Tax Administration is that the crime of working life has become more serious, extensive and complex.’ At the same time, the government answers government budget questions about the new measures on labour-related crime presented in the State budget that no new initiatives have been proposed. Is the Prime Minister so satisfied with developments that she believes that there is no need to prioritise this area with new measures and increased appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e419	This government has taken a hold on the organisation and cooperation between the various levels of employment crime. This means that we also see results in terms of convictions, we see results in terms of companies that stop delivering on the Norwegian market, we see actors leaving this work. We have had a strong escalation of measures during the last four-year period. We have also provided for new measures relating to fewer levels of all public contracts. We have provided a clause to say that public procurement requires apprenticeships, and we have worked closely with the social partners in order to reduce the exchange of information. We have sent – by Friday at the latest – a report to the European Commission on actions related to global and cross-border labour crime, where we include: offers us to work with our work-life crime with partner countries in the EU to ensure that we follow it up. We take this seriously, this is important for the government, and there's no reason for the Workers' Party to label a government that has done more in the last period to strengthen the cooperation between the agencies, as if we're doing nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e426	Crime is crime, and it's against everyone. That's not the theme – that's what's legal. Today's extensive and growing use of agency staff destroys healthy competition in business and employment by out-competitive companies with their own permanent employees. Leaders in solid companies with their own permanent employees are in despair. It is this development that needs to be stopped and reversed. It is the Working Environment Act that legitimizes the use of recruitment agencies in this way. As early as 5 April 2016, the Central Party adopted legislative proposals for voting in Stortinget to repeal the Working Environment Act § 14-12, second paragraph – § 14-12, second paragraph – which is the lock door for the manning industry into a working life previously occupied by the company's own permanent employees. State Council Hauglie replied on written questions that it was not contrary to the EEA Agreement to repeal it. Can the Prime Minister confirm Hauglie’s understanding of the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e435	I cannot give a legal view of the individual paragraphs of the law of the oral questioning procedure, nor is it oral questioning time. But if the Minister of Labour has said this, then I have full confidence that she has an overview and knowledge that this is the correct understanding. But then the question is, what is good for Norwegian working life? Employment agencies also play a role in Norwegian working life – for those who need a temporary agency, for those small and medium-sized enterprises that do not have a large HR department that can help find these temporary workers. There are many roles in this. I come from the West and know the shipbuilding industry, and we know that there have always been great tops in the yard industry, which have been solved – to ensure that we can build the rigs that produce oil, or the ships that we still compete for – by hiring labour from others to take the tops. We need to take care of what is the big challenges – and construction in Oslo and Akershus is a challenge at the moment – but make sure that we do not pull out the baby with the bath water by getting such strong regulation that Norwegian companies do not get interns and help when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e444	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e449	Yesterday we got some new numbers from Oslo. After many years of juvenile delinquency going down to being historically low, we now see it turning around, and we see a pretty big increase in parts of the city. Yesterday, the NRK also had a documentary on the Tøenløftet, where it was really proven how bad this was when the group of young adults, or young people, was on the Tøen. Or as one of them said, this project only gives more cake to those who already have cake. Child protection also alerts. They're doing a fantastic job in Old Town, but as part of the Old Oslo City Committee, I know that they're getting a bigger and bigger job to work with. They now warn us that this is a demanding resource in view of the major tasks they are facing. While working with maternity care in health care around the country, the health care in Greenland tells me that the most important thing they work with is point one violence and point two poverty. And then the health challenges come after that. This is the city I live in and the neighborhood I live in, and I'm starting to worry about the trends and the great child poverty we see in this neighborhood. I'm particularly concerned when we see that juvenile delinquency is increasing, because it's such a good indicator of how the mood is really among many young people and what they're really growing up in. My question is whether the Prime Minister shares my concern, and whether the Prime Minister sees that here we have to raise quite a large amount of nationally in order to lift a city. This is an important challenge for the city of Oslo, but I think it is also an important challenge for the whole of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e460	I agree that every time we see that it peaks at areas that get juvenile delinquency, areas that get recriminalism and more organised crime, the warning lights should flash, and we must both go into what is behind it and find good measures to combat it. There is a sum of different measures that need to be taken when such situations arise. One is clearly present police, who have the resources to get into the environment and work preventively, and also cooperate with the schools and the municipality to get that kind of action. We also need to make sure that the alternative activity offer is good enough. Then it is clear that we need to look at what the offer of vulnerable groups in an area is like. At the same time, I would never say that because you are poor, or have challenges, crime is acceptable – or ‘sosionomise’ it away, as I used to say. It's not like that. We must address the causes. You have to strengthen your family and work around it, and then, for example, health stations of incredible importance. Then there is also a municipal responsibility to look at whether you get social problems accumulated in some areas, which means that you should work on how to distribute the challenges in a slightly different way. In Bergen we had some of the challenges in Loddefjord 30 years ago. It was moved and changed on. I remember with interest that there was one who said in the paper once: now it has moved many immigrants into here, so now it is much higher social status to live here. It has something to do with moving in and taking away some social housing to ensure that the environments were not too large. But it is important to look at – and I believe that the police have an important role to play in this, I believe that the municipality has an important role, and the state will of course always be a partner in those actions. Many of the area measures we have had have made it better to live in an area physically — visually and otherwise — but it is also necessary to have measures that are at the heart of the challenges facing those living in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e471	There's no doubt that poor and rich really don't give any indication of crime, but everyone who has some knowledge of child and youth work knows that there's a difference between whether the basement room is a basement room under adult control, or whether it's the street that's the kids' basement room and the activity room. The prime minister has a direct responsibility for that, is the police, and the police reform has only discussed LEN's offices, distribution, outreach time in the districts, while this is a police area that has a quarter or a fifth of all criminal cases in Norway. That's where most of the stuff happens. And my question is, can we make sure that the Oslo Police have enough resources to do preventive work? Or they just have to take the tops of those tough things while we're discussing other things, for example. where you see that you have time for prevention, but you don't have the challenges that the Oslo Police are facing every day?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e481	I believe that police reform is far more than a reform of offices; I believe it is a quality and content reform of the police. When we call it a ‘close police reform’, it is precisely because of the content of the reform – the presence, the fact that prevention work is aligned as one of the things police districts should work with, ensuring systemic contact with municipalities. It is an important part of the police's work to help prevent the development of the very type of youth environment that becomes violent, and we will take care of that. I can't say anything about the distribution internally in the Oslo police district, I don't have an overview of that here, but it's clear that they're going to follow up in the areas that are the most stressful. My experience, after meeting the Oslo Police Chamber, is that they're putting extra resources into the work where they see that it's popping up environments that can help make large groups of juvenile criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e488	It opens for follow-up questions – first Jon Gunnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e493	In Trondheim, more specifically in Saupstad-Kolstad, an area promise is now being made for the city to become more attractive and diverse. New schools are being built, there is support for the sports team, there are parks that can actually be used, instead of being wild, like today, and at least it has been positive up until now. My question to the Prime Minister is whether the government will continue to contribute funds to the territorial commitments, and what inputs – she said a little in her response to the Skei Grande – are most important to achieve these objectives that we set ourselves when we go into funding for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e500	When you go into regional upgrading, there is a cooperation between the state and the municipality, and you define goals in cooperation between the state and the municipality. It is often the municipality that needs to be a little bit in the management of what they want to do with that type of area, but all the areas selected for this are chosen because they have challenges on the indicator list, such as social problems and size, and maybe also building decay and other. There has been a turn against more activities into this kind of bet, while there may have been more external maintenance and upgrading of common areas – and I think that is important. Then I think it's important, as Trine Skei Grande talked about, with the adults present. I remember that former rapporteur in Haugesund Petter Steen many years ago said that there are an incredible number of fewer people who are brought into the police chamber during the jazz festival and the film festival, and that is because you can meet Mom in town. Then you stick a little bit in the skin, because then the adults are also present in the city rooms. It's important to get to it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e507	Siri Gassemyr Staalese – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e512	It's not hard to get caught up in young people's story of a difficult everyday life, hoping for a better future, as we saw in the NRK Focus Programme yesterday. We can't blame Tøenløften for the difficult lives of young people on Tøenen. This is about government not giving priority to policies that make the lives of these young people better — rather, on the contrary. The civil government does not give enough priority to the police in the streets of Tøen, who could take preventive action against the young people in the district, or to measures that could get the parents of the children to work. By participating in the labour market, most people will be able to support themselves and their families and thus avoid poverty. This requires great political and economic efforts, which could mean a difference for the young people we met in the TV documentary yesterday. Is the government willing to prioritise more police on Tøen? Measures for the long-term unemployed and for the day’s benefits were cut. What is the government willing to contribute, so that the parents of the children of Tøen get a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e519	This government is very busy getting parents to e.g. immigrant children out to work at the earliest possible time. That is why, in the current year's budget, we have also increased the measures on integration by over 0.5 billion. To improve the activity and ensure that new measures are put in place to ensure that we get more of them to work. We also have a priority on several mothers and women working in the measures that are in the field of integration, and getting young people to work, and we demand, among other things. on the obligation of activity for social assistance for all under 30 years of age, which helps us to have a normalised everyday life for young people who have nothing else to do. In addition, the school effort we have is extremely important for more people to be able to master their everyday school life, and therefore will also be able to take more education and not be able to recruit into environments that are extreme either of a political nature or extreme in terms of violence and crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e526	Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e531	The government gives the impression of being concerned with counteracting the development of parallel societies, and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs recently stated that she fears that immigrants and refugees will become a subclass in Norway. Differences are increasing, child poverty has increased steadily and persisted over the years, particularly among those with a migrant background. As a result, we have been given areas and environments like the youth environment we saw in yesterday's comment on the NRK on Tøen, where crime is growing. So while some children have a safe, stable and good start to life, others end up early in a negative race, among other things. because they are poor and because they live there. Prime Minister, I expect you to agree with me that it is our duty as politicians and decision-makers to give all Norwegian children and young people good growth conditions. So there are many measures here. But my question to the Prime Minister is: do we really know enough about what measures are being taken to ensure that child poverty does not end up with crime and unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e538	We know a lot about preventing crime and breaking up organized youth gangs. We've done that many times, and we've done it almost every time it's pop up in new areas. That's why we have flexible transfer of police resources, like at the Oslo Police Chamber. And then in the current year's budget, it's going to be $17 million. kr for an extra effort on Greenland specifically related to these measures. It is this government that has started, long before the Focus documenter arrived last night. There has been a greater police effort in these areas in the current year, helping to work more preventively. We've also renewed and extended the area use in Oslo South and will do more about it. In the work we are working on under the plan for extremism, there is a lot that really is about preventing this kind of repugnance and youth environments in general, and we are working in cooperation with the municipalities to make sure that it doesn't develop that kind of violent environment, whether they're political, or whether they're just purely criminal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e545	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e551	I have lived on the Lower Tøen before and now I live on the Wetvet in Groruddalen. There are two areas that have benefited from the area promise and in which clear improvements are seen, but these are also areas where child poverty is high and the differences are great. We know that when differences in Norway increase, when child poverty in Norway increases, it is these areas that are hit hardest by it, because there is also an increase in child poverty. We also know that in societies where differences are small, crime is also lower. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is the Prime Minister satisfied with the increase in child poverty in Norway, and will the Prime Minister consider increasing child welfare, as we know, the most effective measure to reduce child poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e558	I am not satisfied with the increase in child poverty in Norway. I think we have to be honest and say that the main reason why it is increasing is that we have had great immigration and that many refugees and asylum seekers have come. That's why it's going to increase in the next few years, because it takes time for their parents to get to work. Child protection does not mean that Mom comes to work – there are other types of active measures that do. It also does not mean that young people come to work. It's not the one that makes you get better school results either. What we have to work with is get the job participation up and get people to work faster when they get to the country. It's to make sure that we have good enough health care, which means that we're working on what's of mental challenges, that we have the skills to fill, that we spend the money effectively enough to ensure that many of those who go out on different courses, actually achieve a competence that allows them to get out of work. That's why we're using 17 million in the current year. kr on a bet on Greenland – 7 million. kr is used for police-related prevention work there, and the remaining 10 million. kr is just used for grant schemes aimed at getting young people into work and activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e565	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e570	When the Stortinget decided to expand the Goliath field in the Barents Sea, it was against the Christian People's Party. At that time we asked questions about whether it was a wise development, and we also asked questions about whether it was going to be profitable. What I mean is questions that stand today. The payroll of the state in the project has come to the fore, and a lot of questions have been asked to the State Council responsible. So far in the fall, Terje Søviknes has given four different answers to the salary of Goliath. The e-mail journal and answers given by Søviknes show that he has kept to the operator Eni alone, even the Oil Directorate – his own trades directorate – has always had calculations that he has finally informed about after this came up in the media, and there was a press. The last answer shows that there is reason to ask questions about whether the state is actually going to spend money on this project as a whole. How does the Prime Minister think that her council has fulfilled her obligation to provide information to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e579	Let me start by saying that there have been some media queries where I have reacted to the angle, among other things. Media lookup of the type ‘E-mails on the way’ – which reveals something. There were e-mails that were included in the journal, which were asked to be transparent, and which you got out in a very ordinary way. That's how democracy works in Norway. Dramaturgy is the job of the press, but this is perfectly normal, and you've answered questions. It is quite common, when you are asked about the profitability of a project, to obtain the latest data. That's what Terje Søviknes did. He's got the latest possible data. The data on which the Directorate of Oil was located are the data on which the department itself is located. So that's data from 2015. Most of us know that much has happened in the oil sector from 2015 to today. Therefore, profitability assessments were requested for the flow of income, and where the cross-point between total costs and total revenues was to be. Then entered Eni 2019. So it was wrong after further verification, and they gave new information after the answer was given. Therefore, Søviknes also followed up with a new response to Stortinget. It is also quite common to correct when you have got a wrong basis. It is not unnatural or unusual to rely on information gathering from the companies – yes, it is quite common. That's also how the Oil Directorate collects information from the field owner. When the department did it directly this time, it is simply to be service minded towards Stortinget and give a quick answer. The oil director would do exactly the same thing if the way had gone through them. If you had asked the Oil Directorate, they would have called Eni, and then Eni would have given his own data for the exact same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e588	The Prime Minister is quite right when she says that much has happened in Norwegian oil industry since 2015, from which these figures stem. Among other things, there have been some complications and distortions in the project that the Directorate of Oil's figures at the time said was marginally profitable – at best. It hasn't come to Stortinget until this became a press in the media, and before you had to look up the number yourself, in the post-journal. In the answers that the government that Solberg Leider gave to the Storting on the questions, there are some numbers, and there are numbers one and only taken from Eni. In some of the e-mails, one can at least interpret it this way, so that one is asked to confirm an over-optimistic estimate. The oil director himself, on questions from Dagbladet, says that they have not been asked for their analyses in this case. This is a measure that one believed was not necessarily profitable, and yet the Council of State has not. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how she thinks the department should deal with its own professional bodies, and whether she thinks that Søviknes has delivered on those expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e595	I believe that Terje Søviknes has delivered on what is quite the usual process in this case. On a written question where you have a short time to answer, you have chosen to contact Eni directly and get the numbers, just as the Oil Directorate would do, and send exactly the same answers. I do not read the e-mail exchange as the representative does. It's a question of confirmation, because it was really a little noticeable that you thought you were in balance in 2019. That was a good argument, so you're asking to be sure about this in a check of the actual number you have. So when the Goliath PUD was presented to the Red-Green Government in 2009, there was a great deal of uncertainty about profitability, but it's mostly profitable, marginally profitable, if we also get to the gas part of this. That's what's at stake. This has been a field that has been marginal all along, but which has been proposed by the red-green government in 2009 by a broad majority – not all of them. It is still the case that these are not the most profitable projects on a Norwegian base, but the gas solution has still been considered marginally profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e602	There will be follow-up questions – first Hans Fredrik Gruvan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e607	Much has been said about the profitability of the Goliath field over several years. There is reason to believe that more questions will also be asked in the future. In the above-mentioned e-mails from the mailing list to the ministry, between the ministry and Eni, a small impression may be that the ministry has perhaps been more concerned with asking for figures that will not create an unnecessary uncertainty about the future development of the Barents Sea. What are the Prime Minister’s comments that it can be seen that the Ministry seems to have been more concerned — and perhaps also by informing us about — with figures adapted to reasons other than to provide the Stortinget with the information produced by the Ministry’s own directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e612	The oil directorate’s figures are from 2015 and should have been updated to current profitability figures. After all that has happened in the sector, including the Goliath project, they would also have to collect new figures from Eni if an up-to-date response were to be given. I think that if we had black Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on Stortinget with numbers from 2015, Terje Søviknes would probably have been criticised that it was not the right numbers to use. But I've read that e-mail, and I'm going to quote it – if I can do it in 30 seconds. After you have outlined what you will answer Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås in this written question, you say: ‘I would like to be confirmed that this means that Eni’s calculations indicate that during 2019 the accumulated sales income from Goliath’s production will exceed the sum of the accumulated investment costs and operating costs from the field.’ It is not a question of asking, but a question of confirming that the information received in the first round is actually correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e622	Hege Haukeland Liadal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e628	It is reasonable for the Stortinget to ask questions about profitability and cost control on a Norwegian base. In the future, the Workers' Party will take more initiatives and step up this dialogue. On several occasions, the Storting has asked the Council of State about the Goliath project in particular. It has been necessary to follow up the observation made by the majority of the population when the field was adopted that the Storting imposes strict requirements on ‘cost control and efficient production technologies’. Yesterday, 14 November 2017, it was not the Council of State that briefed the Stortinget, but the Dagbladet – serious and discrepancy in the information provided by the Council of State in this Chamber, and what we read in Dagbladet. My question is: When was the Prime Minister informed about the profitability forecasts that the Oil Directorate has and can take out continuously?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e637	Our assessment of profitability is that it does not deviate significantly from the assessment given when the PUD was treated at Stortinget in 2009. But this is a marginal project. It was said in 2009, when the Stortinge decided, that it was primarily the gas solution that would contribute to this being marginally profitable. Then there has been a cost increase in the expansion of the Goliath field, and it has not improved the profitability associated with it. But the assessment is that this is within the challenges that were seen when the PUD was dealt with in the Storting, and that profitability is still marginally negative if you do not get the gas solution – and marginally positive if it is realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e642	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e647	It is likely that the state of Norway will never make money on Goliath expansion in the Barents Sea. Maybe we lose. The field has a cost margin of over 20 billion. kr. The oil and energy minister has chosen to be an uncritical postal agent for the views of oil companies when the Stortinget has asked about profitability, rather than answering our questions, because the department reports on these figures annually. Due to the tax system, Norway takes the majority of the risk in field development. The state may have lost 50 billion. kr in tax revenue. Can the Prime Minister now promise to present assessments of when the state of Norway will make money on Goliath? And when you calculate this, you'll follow the government's own guidance for expanding oil fields – which was released this year – where it says that the profitability "must be shown as present value with the authorities' 7 pst. yield requirements’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e654	When the red-green government presented the proposal to build Goliath, in 2009, it was clear that this was not one of the most profitable projects on the Norwegian base. It was a marginally profitable project at that time, but SV went in with open eyes and voted for the Goliath expansion at that time. That's when the train actually rolls for that kind of expansion – when you've started and adopted a PUD. And then the cost runs. This is a project where there has been too little cost control, and there have been major challenges associated with it. Of course, we can go through even more assessments of how it is, but there are big changes happening. What the oil price is used will be absolutely decisive for what profitability it will be in the future. The oil price has at some point been on the nearly $140 barrel and has been down to less than 30 during the period after that. So these are current assessments that will never be completely fixed, because the changes, especially in oil prices, will be so big.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e661	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e666	We're going to go to something very fundamental and vital, and something that even our Constitution now mentions, namely the right to clean air. We assume that an average of 185 people die prematurely as a result of air pollution in Oslo every year. It's a figure that's based on the National Health Institute's research on how many people get their lives shortened because of suspended particulate matter in Oslo. 200,000 people, i.e. a quarter of Oslo's population, lives in dangerously high pollution in Oslo in winter. So on days of acutely high pollution, emergency measures are needed. Therefore, the new, increased toll tariffs are now further trebled on the individual days when the concentration of hazardous NOx in the Oslo air is going to be at a red level and politicians are obliged to introduce measures. The alternative to these tariffs is the ban on diesel. The Minister of Transport said to the VG this week that he reacted to the fact that Oslo City Council wants to introduce emergency tariffs in days with very poor air. He calls toll policy highly unsocial. He is also opposed to a diesel ban, and he does not come forward with other proposals to prevent dangerous air on these single days. Can the Prime Minister explain whether she agrees with Ketil Solvik-Olsen that it is more important for low tolls – even on these few, red-wrestling days – than for the thousands of kindergarten children and people with asthma and respiratory plagues that must be inside these days? Or does the Prime Minister agree that Oslo should take emergency measures on the staging days?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e677	The government has opened up all the emergency measures that the Municipality of Oslo is now using, and that the municipality of Bergen has used, at the request of the big cities. We have not made a separate assessment of each measure or made an assessment of whether it or that measure should be implemented there or there. We have respected that the municipalities are responsible for implementing these measures. For the Right, we have been accompanied by many of these emergency measures and the homes for them. The alternative would be as you did in Bergen, that you get a driving ban or alternative dates. One can always discuss the extent to which the situation is so acute that the major intervention measures will be that you have to change the way you get to work or that you may have to assess whether the possibility of getting to work is present. I respect that it is the local government that is going to make these decisions and take those provisions, but I also believe that local politicians are going to be in that debate themselves and not necessarily thinking that there is going to be a discussion where the Storing or the government is going to decide on each and every measure. Then there must be the party political debate on what you think is right, also in the form of a local political discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e688	The last thing I agree with, but that's definitely not the question here. It is true that Oslo Right participated in the emergency tariff decision one year ago. Now, when it is actually relevant to introduce it, the lot has been critical and considers that a ban on diesel cars should be considered as a better emergency measure. Paradoxically, right-hand output comes as a result of the state's failure to ensure that Oslo has the authority to vary the environmental response rates, so that cars that emit little NOx, such as petrol cars, hybrid cars and Euro 6 trucks, are protected. The City Council agrees that the introduction of environmental differentiation is wise as soon as possible, but then the State must amend the regulation and it will agree with it. What measures does the Prime Minister intend to implement this winter on these few days of acutely high pollution? What does the Prime Minister think we have in the toolbox that the Municipality of Oslo does not already use?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e697	I believe that this is a discussion that the Oslo politicians should take, not the Prime Minister. I'm not the one who's going to deliver the menu to the Oslo politicians. In fact, we have expanded that menu considerably with the funds we have given, relating to the individual measures. It is the responsibility of local politicians to take decisions within the framework that lies there, and then local politicians must do the same. This means that there will often be an internal discussion in each batch, for example: if you are going to ban cars in a few days because it gives more effect, or if you are just saying that if you have good advice, and that is important enough for the individual, or if you are an important enough person, or if high prices do not matter, you can drive in and pollute, or if you are going to have a measure that applies to everyone, whether you have good advice or not. I believe that this is a local political issue, in which the Prime Minister should not be a Supreme Judge. The politicians from the Right in Oslo and Bergen are probably coming to different conclusions based on their decisions about it. There is not one template and one standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e704	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e710	Today, construction workers in Oslo are going to political strike to secure a serious working life in the industry. At the same time, we also have proposals from several parties in the Stortinget to streamline the manning industry and to ban tenants, with different limitations, precisely because in some parts of our working life it is developing semi-criminal conditions with zero respect for people and zero respect for expertise. So far, the signal from the government party has been that for them a so-called flexibility is more important than going to the clinic with the problems that they add and their organizations address. It is in this light that the Directorate for Building Quality has changed the practice of applying for central approval. They believe that there should no longer be a requirement for the owner to be added with the relevant letter of formal notice, or master's letter in order to obtain a central approval of the work that has been carried out. When Stortinget dealt with the changes in the Planning and Building Act in 2015, the point was that expanding the seriousness requirements of a voluntary central recognition scheme was something that would come in addition to the current requirements on professional qualifications. In fact, the proposal by the government also stated: «New requirements for undertakings shall provide greater assurance of quality and seriousness The aim is to strengthen central recognition as an instrument of quality in construction activities by strengthening the requirements of centrally approved undertakings.» [[...]] Then we believed that this was going to be fixed and followed up. Nevertheless, we see that the requirements of the regulations are weakened. My question to the Prime Minister is why the government accepts that there should no longer be a requirement to add their own certificates to obtain central approval.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e722	I have to admit that the regulations in an underlying department are a little bit lower on the preparation list for a prime minister before an oral question time. But since I have been the State Council responsible for this a long time ago, I just have to say that it has been a challenge that the red tape requirements relating to part of the central approval systems have been great. There's been a need to make simplifications in them. And the quality requirements for enterprises are strengthened. Companies have to deliver even better on it, and then they have a responsibility to assess whether people within their company are able to comply with the requirements of the company as a whole. I have to say that the details of the regulation in this regulation are a little lower down than what I can answer on the standing foot in oral question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e729	I can respect that some questions may be detailed. But I record that the answer from the Prime Minister is being incorporated into a pattern of flexibility rather than respect for the expertise and competence of professionals. The head of the Building Masters' Association, Frank Ivar Andersen, has pointed out that the government, with these changes, sets out ‘the whole understanding of the need for competence for building work in Vanry’. It's a pretty strong quote. Although the Prime Minister may not be able to go into the details of the regulation, I would at least like to hear if the Prime Minister has an understanding of the leader of the Building Masters' Association, and how she will follow up the feedback he gives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e736	We're going to follow it up, and not least we're going to make sure that what we say to Stortinget that is going to be carried out with higher quality is going to be carried out with higher quality. Then the question is whether it means that everyone should have an exact type of professional competence defined in the regulation, or whether one should have a requirement for the company to deliver on the quality requirements laid down, it should be checked through the central approval — and whether there are two different types of standards. The Planning and Building Act has made many technical demands, including professional requirements. Over the years, it has become even more difficult for people to get into the labour market, which has contributed to companies falling out of work and which have helped people with dyslexia to have more problems working in the construction sector. There are not just simple things related to more and more written and professional qualifications in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e745	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e750	Unfortunately, the example of Hadia Tajik's question is not unique. The government has made a number of changes which, in total, weaken the status of vocational training in construction. In working life policy, the changes that weaken the possibilities of a serious and organised working life, they sit still and look at the development of increased rents, and they do not introduce any new measures in the budget against the crime of working life. Workers are constantly experiencing a deterioration in their rights, that employment agencies in many jobs are the largest employer, and that they often lose competition against unprofessional actors based on foreign labour. What kind of signal does this send to young people who today consider whether to take up a training course in construction? And if people now run away from these professions, who is going to build the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e757	Fortunately, under this government we build more roads using Norwegian companies, and we have high activity overall. This means that the demand for labour in these industries is high, and we have looked at the unemployment figures, which at the beginning after the fall in oil prices were quite high for construction. Now they've fallen quite considerably. This means that, in sum, there is a high demand for professional skills, but also activity in these areas. To escape from these disciplines, I will not sign. I also do not want to sign the description of the government's policy that the representative of Grande has. Not everything is about money. When, for example, Takes an initiative against the European Commission on cross-border crime, the crime of working life, that we can follow up on the agencies that are coming, it is an important measure. It is likely to be the most important and most effective – if we do so with the European Commission – of many of the measures that have been taken to follow up on the fact that we do not undermine Norwegian working and environmental conditions in connection with the fact that there are more from other countries coming and working.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e764	Willfred Nordlund – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e769	I noticed that the Prime Minister stressed that she was of the opinion that the quality requirements were strengthened in relation to the requirements of skilled workers and to this with a central recognition system. The introduction of zero requirements for employees in the application for central approval significantly violates several key elements, which the Prime Minister has previously been concerned that we should maintain in the Norwegian construction industry, and to the extent through the Norwegian model. With effect from 1 October, it is possible for professionally managed enterprises with training at the engineering level to obtain central recognition as an executive without having their own employees with their professional, swinging or master letters. Many believe that it undermines the central approval system as a tool to know if the company has practical implementation capability when the municipalities, among other things, have to issue a mandate. The question then arises: does the Prime Minister share the statement from the Chief Executive Officer of Skanska that the quality of the construction site is best served by a working life based on regular employment, and not based on the fact that it is a company that can only rent temporary without a letter of formal notice?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e776	The government has stated that we believe that regular employment should be the general rule in Norwegian working life, and that is what we are concerned about. To make professional demands on companies means that they must meet quality requirements as a company and have competence in these areas. This is the central approval. Since I've been the Council of State responsible for this, 15 years ago, I can tell a story at the end of this questioning. I was visiting the municipality of Bømlo, where the technical manager told me that after we had done this with central approval and introduced all these complicated requirements, he said that yes, they have one company that delivers the best applications, but builds the shady houses, because the joiner obviously can't do this with vats, but the secretary worked at the office here before, and she's good at writing applications!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e783	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e797	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken of the Minister of Health and Health, will be addressed by the representative Nisrin El Morabit. Questions 8 and 9 from the representatives of Liv Signe Navarsete and Carl-Erik Grimstad respectively to the Minister for Defence are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e812	‘By the current Norwegian legislation, deposits in Norwegian banks are secured by up to SEK 2 million through the Banks Insurance Fund. This ensures that people's savings are safe even if their bank is unable to repay deposits. This legislation has been under pressure from the EU for a long time. On 7 November, it was announced on the government’s website that the Council of State now sees the possibility of agreement with the EU. Will the current level of the deposit guarantee be continued in line with the recommendations of the Banking Law Commission?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e825	Both my predecessors and I have worked actively towards the EU in order for Norway to be able to continue the deposit guarantee coverage of 2 million. kr per depositor per bank. This is an important issue for Norway. Although the Directive has not yet been incorporated into the EEA Agreement, the Government has already made proposals for the implementation of the Directive for the size of Prop. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The bill is designed to continue the current level of coverage of 2 million. kr in line with the draft Banking Act Commission. On this basis, I have continued to discuss the matter with the EU. The Deposit Guarantee Directive opens up the possibility for countries with a higher coverage level to continue the coverage level until the end of 2018. This scheme was adopted as a result of the Norwegian impact. The government has several times previously informed Stortinget that we will come back to this matter vis-à-vis the EU in connection with the incorporation of the Directive into the EEA Agreement. I have recently met on the matter with the European Union side. There I have pointed out that the matter is important for Norway. I feel that there is now an understanding of Norway’s vision and that we are being listened to. I am glad that there is movement in the matter, and that it can approach a solution, although there is still work to be done. The government will therefore orientate the Storting when there is something more concrete to announce.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e836	The deposit guarantee scheme is particularly important. It is not only important for banking customers and for one to get out the deposits that you have had, but also important for banks and ultimately important for Norwegian society. It's clear that if there's a banking crisis in an adjournment, there's a risk that people will empty their bank accounts in fear of not getting out the money you have. This could have serious and escalating consequences for a crisis in the anomaly. That is why my question is: does the Minister of Finance mean that if we do not maintain the deposit guarantee and the level of the deposit guarantee we have today, we will be better or worse equipped to face a crisis and prevent a crisis from occurring in Norwegian banks?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e843	I believe that I gave a quite adequate answer to what I think about this matter in the first answer I gave. This is an important arrangement, we agree on that. There are several former finance ministers, such as I, who have worked actively to ensure that Norway is well organized, and we have that dialogue with the European Union side. My ambition is that we will soon find a solution to this issue that takes care of our interests in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e848	I would like to ask the Council of State to be a little more specific about it, because in the past, the Minister of Finance has explained that we have to recognise that the deposit guarantee will be amended and that we cannot expect to maintain the legislation we have in Norway today. That is precisely why my question was whether the current level of the deposit guarantee will be continued or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e853	In my first answer, I went through the entire history of this case, how the government has worked actively against the EU side to ensure Norwegian interests in the best possible way. And we're still going to do that. My hope is that we will get a solution to this within a reasonable time. Of course, the starting point for all government to move towards the EU side in this matter is to ensure that Norway gets the best possible solution to this in line with our interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e861	‘52 countries, including the rest of the Nordic region, have more financial transparency than Norway, according to the Tax Justice Network in 2015. Little has changed in Norway since the decision of the Stortinget on 5 June 2015 to set up a ‘Norwegian public ownership register to ensure transparency of ownership of Norwegian companies and to strengthen efforts against tax crime, corruption and money laundering’. Will the Council of State provide such an open register, which includes listed companies and includes all owners?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e868	First, I would like to clarify that the ranking of the Tax Justice Network is based not only on the so-called financial transparency of a country, but also on the importance of an economy in the international context. If we just look at financial transparency, Norway is the number 11 of approximately. 100 countries ranked as Tax Justice Network. The size has taken two different request decisions for the establishment of two different registers. One relates to the transparency of ownership of Norwegian limited liability companies and was adopted in 2014, the other relates to a register that follows up the fourth EU Money Laundering Directive and the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force, FATF. This is the request decision to which the representative refers. The latter is referred to as a register of the beneficial owners of rights. The Whitewashing Law Committee has investigated the issue of establishing such a register, and the Ministry of Finance is now working on a legislative proposal that follows up this investigation. A register of beneficial owners shall provide information on natural persons who ultimately own or control legal persons. It would not be appropriate to require all owners to be registered as real rightholders, because that is not the purpose of the register. Neither FATF nor the EU's Fourth Directive on Money Laundering requires that listed companies be included in the register as long as the transparency of who owns and controls the company is sufficient. The countries I am familiar with that have established or are in the process of establishing registers of real rightholders make all exceptions for listed companies. The reasons for not including listed companies appear to be contained in securities trading legislation. Flag rules ensure that the market is kept up-to-date on changes in ownership. It shall be flagged when owners, when sold up or down, cross established limits of ownership. Such communications to the market are open on the Internet. In addition, the Accounting Act provides rules on the information to be provided about the owners of shares in listed companies. This includes not only information about direct owners but also indirect owners. Accounts are publicly available for payment and there are currently several online services that make information from accounting reporting available. The establishment of a register of beneficial owners has contact points for the follow-up to the decision of the Storting’s request of 2014 for increased transparency of registered shareholders. This request decision is for follow-up by the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. In the budget proposal for the NFD for 2018, the government has signalled that we are aiming to promote a proposition for necessary legislative changes during this downturn session.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e885	I would say that it means something about the size of an economy, how much responsibility that economy – including the state of Norway – has for having good legislation on economic transparency and to avoid tax crime and other financial crime. When it comes to initiatives against tax havens and general transparency measures on ownership and taxation, Norway has been far behind countries it is natural to compare us with. We're far from someone pushing in some way in this work. As the Minister of Finance points out, several countries, such as Denmark and the United Kingdom, have already established registers for real rightholders, i.e. real owners of companies. All EU countries require country-by-country reporting for large banks. Norway has none. In practice, Norway is targeting other countries, the EEA, the OECD and multilateral initiatives. For example, the EU Money Laundering Directive is now being introduced only after it became EEA-relevant – and we have to do a good job. And as the Minister of Finance was in, this is what's happening now, after...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e892	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e897	I do not agree that Norway is dilting by other countries in this area. I fully agree with the representative that having good legislation to ensure economic transparency is one of several important instruments to combat economic crime. First of all, there has been a very broad consensus in the United Kingdom that we should continue to work actively in international forums to ensure maximum transparency, so Norway has been a driver of increased transparency and exchange of information for 30 years. We have done this primarily through international forums, and especially through the OECD. And we have achieved good results, both through contractual networks and accepted for automatic exchange of account information. That means that we have now at least come to the conclusion that this with secrecy of bank information, for example, is a long way to go. Norway has 90 tax agreements that facilitate the exchange of information... and there was no time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e906	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e911	What the Minister of Finance is now saying is in line with the recent State Secretary Jørgen Näsche in the Evening Post, where he gives the impression that Norway is a driver of economic transparency. He also says that the secrecy of bank information will be far on the way in 2017. I mean, with all due respect, that it's kind of naive to think that banking information exchange agreements about the placement of individuals in tax havens ensure transparency, as the world looks today. Customers who want to be secret can already keep values through corporate structures and trust structures. Then they bypass the transparency. So I think I'll end up asking a question that goes back to what was the original question, the ownership register. It is time for a real force action now against financial crime and for economic transparency. When can the Storting expect us to put in place an overall ownership register with transparency also about shareholdership?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e918	In my first answer, I responded carefully to what the government has done to promote billing proposals to the Stortinget based on the request decisions that we follow up, and the government is working as fast as we can to present them to the Stortinget as soon as possible. What I do not agree with, however, is that we have a naive approach to this. I fully agree that it is a challenge that someone seeks to keep secret information, or hide capital or whatever it may be, and it is precisely through much of the work that has now been done, through extensive international cooperation, that it is now beginning to become harder and harder to hide. We should be happy about that, because that means it's easier to reveal this, to reveal this and to do something about it, and not least to punish those who commit illegalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e928	‘VG has revealed that the Road Safety Authority has not carried out inspections on bridges in line with the procedures in place. Brudollaps can have serious consequences for life and health, but also for traffic disruption, as the event at Skæggestad bridge on the E18 synthesized. Missing control has been more the rule than the exception, a true VG's revelations. Can the Council of State confirm that the procedures are not followed, and what will the Council of State do in case of ensuring the safety of the bridges, as required by the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e935	I am concerned that it will be safe to travel on Norwegian infrastructure, both on the road, on rail, in the air and to water. That is why, in our period of government, we have greatly increased the appropriations for infrastructure maintenance. Both on the road and on the rail, the appropriations have almost doubled, and sometimes more than that, just so that we can reduce the maturity that VG and other newspapers have mentioned for long periods of time. In this case, it is important to point out in relation to the question that it is not the Road Safety Authority that carries out inspections, it is the Road Safety Authority that is to carry out inspections. The Road Safety Authority shall oversee that the Road Safety Authority does its job. The supervision that someone here is talking about was started several years ago, but we have recently released the Road Safety Authority, so that it is no longer under the Road Directorate. It is important to have independent roadside supervision. Roadside surveillance has carried out its supervision of a risk-based assessment, and they have found that there are several deviations. They conducted a round in the state road system both in the region of the North and in the region of the West, and that is what VG is now talking about. Then VG has done a job in addition to looking at the other regions. The information provided in the supervision has been known by the Department, and of course by the State Road Administration. They have recognised that there has been a lack of inspection procedures and records in the Brutus administration system they have, called Brutus. It is important that information is recorded, because although you can have very competent people, who control their tasks, it is important that the information is made available to everyone, and that it is not just in the head of individuals. In the light of the supervisory reports submitted by the Road Safety Authority, the State Road Administration has launched a national project to close the gaps in the management of bridges on the national and county roads. So they admit that it hasn't been good enough and that they have to use the systems that exist. The problem here is really not that there are no systems, the problem is that they haven't been fully practiced everywhere. There is a fault and a defect that needs to be corrected. I have met with the Road Safety Authority to make sure that we have all the information, that it is up to date, that there are no things in VG's articles that we have not been familiar with. I also have great confidence in the job that the Road Safety Authority has done, and the way in which the supervision will follow up this with the Road Safety Authority. We have also called the Road Directorate to get a thorough statement on the matter and to make sure that the measures they have notified earlier and started processes are implemented with the utmost importance, and that results come from this. It is important that the Road Service follows up the road elements we own, so that everyone who travels in Norway feels that the roads are safe to drive on and that one has control over the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e946	I thank you for your answer. It is as the Council of State also says – the procedures exist to be followed, and it is important that everything is logged so that we can make good judgements when allocating budgets and instruments to the various budgets. One question that needs to be asked is: Are we faced with similar conditions in other sectors? It is not just road bridges that are critical installations in the transport sector. We also have it within track, air transport and boat transport. There are important installations that mean a great deal to both security and the emergence of the various transport measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e951	Right now the roads have been mentioned. But we have both a close and a good follow-up to the various inspections, both the Air Traffic Authority and the Railway Authority, etc., to ensure that they can do the job we expect, namely to oversee the actors who both build and maintain infrastructure but also travel on Norwegian infrastructure, especially in aviation and in rail. It is a well-known fact that the infrastructure is not in a position to be desired. The maturity has built up over a long time, and it has been mentioned several times by VG – to take VG. The Consulting Engineers' Association regularly presents a progress report on infrastructure in Norway, which shows a lag that they themselves have estimated to be several thousand billion dollars. Then it goes without saying that things are not as they should be. But it's important that we are aware of the situation, so that people don't go wrong and put themselves at risk. That's why it's important that we maintain more... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e958	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e963	There are several media that have followed up and pulled out some bridges from different parts of the country. It's county roads, and it's municipal roads, but it's also the state roads that we're responsible for. The state road service answers some of the concrete bridges that are being pulled out, that it has been done and done something, but I am little uncertain whether we and the state council have a good enough overview of the maintenance run on our bridges in Norway now, so that we can have a good enough basis to say that we are going to allow so much on maintenance and so on and so much on new investments for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e968	There is just a lack of registration that makes you have got this case. It is therefore important that the Road Service cleans it up as soon as possible. They're running a process, and it's also important that they update the information in their registers, just so that we can be sure that the information that many people want to be on, also comes into a system that makes sure we can tell what the maintenance situation is and where one needs funds. That being said, in our government period, we have nearly doubled the appropriations for maintenance both on the road and on the railway. In tunnel safety, which we have given the highest priority, appropriations are more than quadrupled – from around 600 million. NOK when we took over, to now NOK 2,5 billion. kr. On the bridge allocation side, one saw that in 2012/2013 the appropriations were around 400–480 million. kr per year. In the last two years, appropriations have been nearly 1 300 million. kr per year. So even though we're not going to bring down the decay, in this area, we've more than doubled the allocations to make the Road Service able to reduce the decay.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e976	‘Manufacturing is largely carried out in Norway today, both in legal and illegal form. If we are to limit cabotage in general and fight illegal cabotage in particular, this must be resolved in cooperation with other countries and in cooperation with the EU. What initiatives has the Council of State taken internationally to find a solution to the cabotage issue after briefing on this in the United States?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e983	It is important that we have a well-regulated transport sector. It is both a question of good competition conditions within the industry, so that the legal players who are forward-looking, innovative and efficient win in competition, and not those who cheat and cheat, win. It is important that we travel across borders. It is therefore important to reach as much international agreement as possible on the nature of the rules that should underpin it. Much of what goes on in Norwegian trucks, among others. fish, is about exporting Norwegian values and creating jobs in Norway. We're busy having a good situation in this area. It is a matter of ensuring that transport companies in Norway are able to recruit young people into the profession and know that they can live from it, and it is a matter of road safety on Norwegian roads and of ensuring that when we ourselves place great emphasis on both the automotive state and on the knowledge and qualifications of drivers, it also applies to our foreign guests on Norwegian roads. The mobility package proposed by the European Commission concerns me in a number of areas, because it adds to what we consider to be a liberalisation of cabotage. Yes, legal cabotage is to a great extent okay. But if legal cabotage expands a lot, it will undermine the competitiveness of Norway. We're going to fight illegal cabotage anyway. We agree on that. In order to ensure that Norwegian views are heard in this matter, we have joined the Road Alliance, which is a collection of several of our friends in Europe, to ensure that the cabotage code is not extended to the extent that it creates challenges for the transport sector, road safety and the working situation of those working in the industry. We've had several meetings in this context. On 7 June the Alliance held a ministerial meeting in Luxembourg. Former Secretary of State in the Department took part from the Norwegian side. We have also had participation from the administrative level at other meetings, and I am aware that a new meeting is planned where I hope to attend myself. It is important that we intervene at an early stage in the processes taking place in the EU. The Commission's proposal is not necessarily the final one. This shows that there is a significant struggle between different views in EU countries. That's where we want to be involved and light this up and try to influence what's actually being presented. That's where you have the greatest influence. My wish is not to liberalise cabotage legislation, but to make it more restrictive. It is good that non-resident carriers who come to Norway with cargo can also take goods out of the country. However, the fact that they continue to drive into Norway on bad tyres and with poorly qualified drivers, I wish as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e998	I think I can say that the Minister for Transport has the whole Stortinget behind in the fight to further liberalise the cabotage code. I stand here with a notice from Bergen's Official Journal now on Sunday. It says about Bilberger Bjørn Lækreid from Eidfjord Bilberging, who last Friday spent five hours on a Lithuanian train. When he was finished, the car combination and the driver ran out. According to autobiographers, this is a classic problem. The challenge for the car storage companies is that what happened now in Eidfjord, and if they wait to save until they get money and guarantees for payment and that kind of thing, that means that the car rentals stay standing for a long time, with major traffic problems. My question is simply: what can and should the authorities do to avoid this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1007	The problem now being addressed has nothing to do with cabotage in itself, but it has to do with non-resident vehicles on the roads in Norway. I have been busy with this for a long time, among other things. when in February 2015 I drove our east-west routes. Then I got to sit on one of the car mountains that also attended the Winter Road heroes at National Geographic. He just took up the problem that sometimes they store cars, but they don't get paid – not necessarily because a run off from the bill, but simply because one didn't have money and never made up the bill, even though they didn't try to hide physically. At other times he experienced that the cars were standing still and the owners did not want to be mountained, precisely because they would not spend money on it. We've had this up as a topic internally. It is clear that if the police order the removal of the car, then there is a permit to do so and demand payment. Just as sticking out of the bill is seen as a criminal act in line with not paying for other services and should be reported to the police. But making sure that you have a good car storage service is important, and if we need to change the powers needed to order this to happen, we also have a discussion on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1014	Cabotage is not limited to goods. This also applies to passenger and bus services. In the 2018 government budget, the government has proposed to increase VAT on passenger transport by two percentage points. Norwegian tourism companies say that this further exacerbates their competitive situation vis-à-vis non-resident companies, because very many of the non-resident carriers do not pay VAT to Norway. The majority has previously decided that non-resident carriers should pay VAT for tasks carried out in Norway, i.e. that Norwegian and non-resident carriers should be treated in the same way as regards the payment of VAT and other charges. My question is: Where is this case now, and when are Norwegian and non-resident carriers being treated as equivalent in terms of paying VAT on transport operations in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1021	Today, the legislation is that if you trade for less than a certain sum – that is, for all industries – you are not subject to VAT. It may be the case that some actors come to Norway on very small missions, which means that they do not have the benefit that makes them subject to VAT. It is also possible to cheat by registering as a taxable person who makes there are two aspects to this case. But the issue here is about the competitiveness of Norwegian carriers both on buses and trucks. We've addressed this many times. There has been a sharp increase in control activities by state authorities. One of the first things we did in the 2014 budget was to increase significantly the control activities of Vegvesen. We also see that the Vegvesenet, the tax authorities and the Labour Inspectorate are becoming increasingly good at implementing this type of joint work. In a short time, we will set up a working group together with parts of the transport industry to discuss both the cabotage issue and this further in formalised forms. We've had a lot of meetings already, but I think it's important to have a working group that has a better mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1033	‘Machine contractors find that Section 10 of the Competition Act prevents small contractors from cooperating on major contracts in open tenders. This may mean that road and rail investments do not provide Norwegian jobs and local value creation. What does the Council of State think she can do to ensure that more small operators in construction can cooperate on small and medium-sized road and rail construction contracts, and is she willing to amend the Competition Act so that it does not get in the way of this objective?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1040	In some cases, cooperation on tenders can be a strength, both for individual enterprises and for society. In particular, cooperation that contributes to increased competition by allowing smaller enterprises to take up the struggle for contracts for which they otherwise had not had the capacity. Cooperation on individual projects can therefore be a good and desirable solution for SMEs in order to be able to offer contracts for which they are otherwise too small to compete. However, unfair and unlawful cooperation in tenders will undermine the whole idea of a tender, because such anti-competitive cooperation is prohibited and is therefore regarded as a financial crime. Project cooperation is illegal if the companies could supply their own competing offers. The starting point is that companies themselves should assess whether cooperation is lawful or not. In some cases this is a difficult assessment, which depends both on the capacity of the companies and on the design of the specific offer. It can be demanding, especially for small businesses. Among other things, I had: a meeting with the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs last week where we discussed this. It is therefore important that both competition authorities and trade associations guide and inform companies of the legal and illegal cooperation. I am concerned about ensuring that the companies receive as good guidance as possible. That is why we are in constant dialogue with the Competition Authority, with Diffi and with the business community itself. The Competition Director said last week that supervision would be more than happy to meet the industry to explain how they interpret the law and what they care about. They have also had several meetings in recent times. The representative asks if I want to change the Competition Act to make it easier to cooperate. I think that means that we are at risk of allowing anti-competitive cooperation to a greater extent than we do today. I am not in favour of making it easier for companies to restrict competition, because it will provide more expensive goods and services for other companies, public and consumers. Contracting authorities may facilitate the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in competitive tendering without cooperation. Public purchasers should always consider dividing tenders into several sub-contracts if it is profitable. I have sent a letter to all the contracting entities about that. So I don't think a change in the law will make it easier to comply with competition rules, because the law is difficult, and it requires difficult assessments. If you change the law, it will probably only lead to an equally difficult assessment, but to a slightly different legal norm. It does not simplify businesses, nor does it contribute to more competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1057	I thank you for the answer, and I perceive that the Council of State is not willing to change the law. Cooperation between providers is often appropriate and necessary. At the same time, competition surveillance has expressed a lower threshold in recent years, through both guidelines and practices, to detect infringements of competition rules. Is not the Council of State concerned about this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1064	I have no basis for the claim that the Competition Authority has received a lower threshold. I know there is a perception in some industries that the decisions of the courts, most recently the Follo decision this summer, have contributed to making it more difficult. But I'm not sure if that's actually true. What we can do is contribute to guidance. Guidance to help businesses, I think, is the way to go, not changing the rules. Because it is not that we want more cooperation among those who themselves will be able to deliver the offer. We want those who are too small to deliver the offer to cooperate. And you don't change that threshold by changing the law, but you can change it by having close contact with the industry, and then the business organisations also have to help us get this done, and not least the small ones can manage it in their daily operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1071	I thank you again for the answer. The councils themselves were concerned, among other things, with constructions are characterised by increasingly large projects with which smaller operators face challenges. Can the Council of State do anything, and what will the Council of State do as a complement to the leadership of the Competition Act to ensure that the contracts do not become too large? Or does she think the bigger the better?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1076	I do not believe that bigger is better, and therefore I have written to everyone who is working on this – in the county, in the municipality, in the state – and asked them to split the tenders if appropriate in the individual case. This is something I mention when I meet KS, and we also discuss it with business organisations, as well as that of course I have an ongoing dialogue with the Competition Authority to look at developments here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1084	This question, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken of the Minister of Health and Health, will be raised by the representative Nisrin El Morabit.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1089	‘Fire spot revealed in March last year critical conditions in drug-producing factories. Poor working conditions, waste management that contaminates food soils, and sub-contractor secrecy contribute to the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Governments promised to look at the possibility of making ethical demands in public procurement of drugs. How does the Council of State follow up the efforts to prevent antibiotic resistance from the production of drugs purchased by Norwegian hospitals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1096	The representative addresses an important issue related to negative environmental impacts in the production of medicinal products. Like the representative, I am concerned about these problems, including: related to the development of antibiotic resistant bacteria. I have therefore followed up the issue through the ownership management of the specialist healthcare service. The public must use its purchasing power to impose environmental requirements on the pharmaceutical industry throughout the supply chain. The government expects government-owned companies to work systematically on their social responsibility. In this context, it also includes consideration of climate and environment. In line with government expectations, health enterprises are constantly working on different environmental measures. Through the former Green Hospital cooperation project of the specialist healthcare service, the issue of the impact of medicinal products on the environment was highlighted. In the context of this project, a working group presented a report already in 2015 with recommendations on how health businesses can contribute to reducing emissions in the production of medicinal products. They pointed to the need for enhanced competence and more effective follow-up of environmental requirements in the supply chain. The setting of environmental requirements for the production of medicinal products in the context of tenders requires knowledge about the products, their sub-components, suppliers, manufacturers and the market in general — both locally and globally. I followed up these issues in my business meeting in January this year. Here I showed that local emissions to the environment occur in connection with manufacturing in the pharmaceutical industry. Such emissions may contain active substances that contribute to the development of antibiotic resistance. This is particularly true in India and China. I asked the health regions to acquire knowledge from the work done in Sweden to develop ethical requirements for the purchase of medicines. I also asked them to develop national systems for the assessment and follow-up of ethical and environmental requirements in the acquisition of medicinal products. Such systems shall ensure that such requirements are met throughout the supply chain. I expect to receive a report from this work in connection with the annual notice for 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1109	I thank the Council of State for its response. This week, the World Antibiotic Awareness Week is directed by the World Health Organisation. The World Health Organisation ranks antibiotic resistance as one of the major threats to global health, food safety and development, and only in Europe provides for more than 2.5 million additional hospital lay days. There is reason for fear, but we must also take responsibility. We treat people here in Norway at the expense of lives in India, to which the Council of State was also concerned. Therefore, I wonder: How is Norway an international driver for taking responsibility for the ethical and environmentally friendly production of drugs?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1114	Norway is one of the driving countries in this work. Norway is working with 11 countries in a World Health Organisation group with health ministers such as the United Kingdom. was the group that was able to lift antibiotic resistance as a separate theme at the high-level meeting of the United Nations in 2016. It is one of the few times that a specific health theme has been the subject of the high-level meeting. Norway is also the driving force behind what one agreed on this time. Not least, we have contributed internationally by working from a One Health perspective, where the Minister for Climate and Environment is also involved in this topic. We have concrete research cooperation, among other things: with India related to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1119	It's nice for the government to mention research, for the first antibiotic-resistant bacteria appeared very quickly after discovery of penicillin. 30 years ago, about 16 large pharmaceutical companies were internationally producing and researching antibiotics – now it is 4. An entire industry that has the people's health in focus has withdrawn, and as a health professionals myself I see with fear of development. This is a priority that is really yesterday, but I still ask the Minister: what is done to ensure more research and development of antibiotics in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1126	We need to get research and development both on new antibiotics, on the possible use of non-used developed antibiotics, and on better diagnostic tools. Norway was this time invited by Germany to participate in the G20 work, where Germany was a host. This was a central theme there at the Health Minister’s meeting, and it is also a theme that Norway is working on at many different arenas internationally. This is an area where there is market failure, and it's for the simple reason that we want new antibiotics to develop, but we don't want new antibiotics to be used, and we also want them to have a price that makes them available to everyone when it's necessary. This means that we need to develop international funding mechanisms to develop new antibiotics.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1134	«The working party will guarantee that the fishing resources will continue to belong to the people in the future: we will ensure a fishing nest and that the nationality requirement will be maintained in accordance with the provisions of the Participation Act. The Council of State has now chosen to set aside the activity requirements of the Act of Participation for Gunnar Klo AS. This is a development the Working Party does not want. What particular considerations underlie this derogation, and what makes this case quite unique?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1141	First I want to thank you for the question, because then you will have an opportunity to clarify. The Deltakers Act is just as firm today as it did 14 days ago. The participant law is not at all affected in this case. It is quite firm, just as when the Workers' Party itself has granted a derogation from the Act of Participation in the past. This is the Stortinget that the legislator has given the opportunity to do. There is also no ambiguity with the law of participants – just so we can clear it up. I think we all agree that a fishing fleet is the basic principle, and that is enshrined in fisheries legislation. The main rule of the Participant Act has been that active fishermen should be majority owners of Norwegian fishing vessels. This principle is what is referred to as the activity requirement. And it's solid. But at the same time we must not forget that the legislator, i.e. the Storting, has opened up exceptions to this general rule in the participant law § 6, third paragraph, first sentence. I quote from there: ‘In particular, the Ministry may, where commercial and regional considerations so warrant, by individual decisions grant derogations: [[...]] Just as the Workers' Party has done on a number of occasions, so is the case in this case. It is a clear premise that each case is given a concrete assessment. It's also done in this case. There is no doubt that practices around exemptions from the activity requirement have been strict and will remain strict. That is why I also said no yesterday to an application for a derogation from the Participant Act. It's going to take an incredible amount of time to get an exception. Traditionally it has been in the sea fishing fleet, but at the same time it is also such that the legislator has never restricted the legal possibility of exemption to specific fishing groups. The representative Myrseth is bound by the nationality requirement, that it be maintained. Then I must be allowed to say that the exception that I have made in this case has nothing to do with nationality requirements. This is no signal to foreign interests to buy into Norwegian allowances and boats. In the case of foreign purchases of processing establishments that had to have ownership of fishing vessels, there is no way in which there is any kind of back way. It is clear from the exceptions that in this case I can order the sale into the fishing vessel of the 40 pst. which foreign companies have had and continue to have access to in respect of fishing vessels. Myrseth is concerned with this particular matter, Gunnar Klo AS. I have explained quite broadly why I have made this exception. I have stressed that Gunnar Klo AS is a long-term fishing company with a minority ownership of 49 p.m. in this vessel. And I record that there is cross-political agreement in the municipality, decision, also from the Workers' Party, that this is a reasonable exception.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1163	First, I would like to remind the Council of State that the questioning process is for you to get an answer to what you are asking about. I can't hear that he has given any particular reason for what were the particular reasons just in this case, what makes this case completely unique. Now I have to say that it is a bit sought that you repeatedly compare this matter with the case that has been before, about shrimp fishing. One should know, as Minister of Fisheries, that there are two quite different issues, this matter and the matter that were referred to here, but also in the media. But there's a real concern out there, with the background of that derogation. You can acknowledge that or not, but at least it is a real concern that I share. So the question is, what happens if other companies in the same situation as Gunnar Klo AS are now applying for a derogation – should they get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1168	I have stressed that the fishing industry has been active for a long time. I have placed great emphasis on the fact that over time the company has indirectly had a significant minority ownership of this vessel – 49 p.m. over 12 years. I have placed great emphasis on the fact that the raw material supply from this vessel has been very important to this company. The local government in Øksnes has joined, including the Workers' Party – have exactly the same concerns. It has been important for land-based activities. Ship deliveries are expected to be very important for the future of this company. That's what I've stressed, and that's what it opens up to in Section 6. Then I understand that there are concerns being created out there. But then you have to look at who is causing the concerns. If you go out politically and say that this is twittering with the law of participants, if you go out politically and say that this opens up to foreign ownership, if you go out politically and say that this is the sale of our common resources, then I understand that people are worried. That's why I'm happy to get this opportunity, because none of these claims are true.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1175	I just notice once again that what you ask is not being answered properly. The Labour Party is not opposed to the possibilities granted by the Act of Participation to grant a derogation. But it is important for me to get an answer to what is particularly important in this case. I don't think you can get it out. But I'm going to ask you finally, and I'm asking the Council of State to clarify these concrete questions: can the Council of State guarantee that the Act of Participation is firm, that he doesn't want to change it, and will he hold back the principle of a fishing rage fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1180	I think I have replied quite clearly that the Act of Participation is firm, although I have granted an exemption from the Act of Participation in this case after § 6° such as the Workers' Party has done not only once, but several times. And that makes sense sometimes. But the law of participants is firm. The principle that the ownership of the fishing fleet should continue as before is established. Then, of course, I can't see if there are any more applicants, but every single candidate is evaluated individually. I have had one more case, and I have therefore assessed it to you that I do not grant an exemption from Section 6. So every single case that has come, which has come under all the fisheries ministers, will be assessed individually as to whether or not the exceptions that I have pointed out in this case are covered. I would like to repeat for the third time what I have put on to give this exception, but it is well the ears that listen, who should perhaps catch up with the signal when I have now answered three times as to why I have given the exception.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1194	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1208	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1217	‘Since 2013, Bergen prison has had to cut DKK 3-4 million annually as a result of the government’s red tape and efficiency reform. According to BT and BA, there are dramatic consequences, with the closure of departments, and the employees experience that they are unable to deliver on the societal mission they have. At the same time, the government is using significant millions in expensive prisons in the Netherlands. Does the Council of State consider that further cuts in the operation of Norwegian prisons are professionally sound in 2018?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1224	Criminal law enforcement shall be carried out in a way that takes account of the purpose of the sentence, which discourages criminal offences, and which safeguards society. Within these frameworks, adequate conditions shall be ensured for the prisoners and priority shall be given to actions contributing to better rehabilitation and repatriation of the sentences. I understand that the red tape and efficiency reform are perceived as a challenge to criminal justice. At the same time, criminal services are expected to implement measures to improve their effectiveness. The reform is not specific to criminal services, but concerns all state activities. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is monitoring the follow-up to the government’s ABE reform in criminal matters. In 2017, an analysis is carried out of the operational situation in criminal justice, with a focus on the impact of the reform. The report shall be available immediately after the end of the year. Despite cutbacks in the ABE reform, there appears to have been a very small change in the number of years spent per prison. No less activation in prison has been reported than when the ABE reform was introduced. Criminal services are targeted at achieving the objective of providing a higher proportion of prisoners with an activation offer and are also working to improve the quality of the offer provided. Renewal of the building mass also facilitates activation. The lease agreement with the Netherlands has helped to reduce the pay queue and to reduce the breach of deadlines for transferring custody prisoners from police detention to prison. The solstice has been reduced from just over 1000 judges just before the prison in the Netherlands opened in September 2015 to 130 judges on 3 November 2017, i.e. in reality a liquidation of the solstice. The agreement has also provided room for the maintenance, rehabilitation of the elderly, degraded building mass in Norway. Experience in the operation of prison after two years is very good. The cost of operating a prison site in the Netherlands is approximately equal to the cost of operating a similar site in Norway. While prison sites are rented in the Netherlands, the government builds up prison capacity in Norway. New prison in Agder is planned to be completed by mid-2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1239	Thanks for the answer. As we have seen from answers from the Ministry of Finance, savings in 2017 amounted to 34 million. NOK 24 million and further cuts are planned. kr. The answer also says that the government's aim with these cuts and efficiency is to benefit the community. During the election campaign, I got the pleasure of attending a very special meeting that the inmates in Bjørgvin prison arranged. Now it turns out that the gym has been blocked and shut down for a long time, they don't have the opportunity to make their own food – and this is just before they finish the zone – because they can't afford anything. How, then, are they to be prepared for the afterlife? The question is: how is the distribution of efficiency between the Directorate of Criminal Welfare and the rest of the prison system, because there are rumors that the number of posts and resources allocated to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare has increased during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1250	I have to come back to the concrete figures for the distribution between the Directorate of Criminal Welfare and other parts of the criminal justice system. What I can at least take into account is that we are able to deliver good compensation, good quality of the offer, while, after the cuts made in the ABE reform, we are reducing the cost. So there's a lot of value in the uplift that we're able to do now, because because of the prison sites in the Netherlands, we can not use some departments and spend time cleaning them up, while getting a more rational closure of the prison queue. So it's only beneficial to see the changes that have been made. We've closed the settlement queue, and we're delivering a good deal. That's the situation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1259	I look forward to receiving a written answer as to whether the number of jobs has increased. And as the Council of State was involved, the agreement with the Netherlands will be extended, which costs a total of 302 million. kr per year. It is a little special that a government chooses to outsource punishment to another country rather than develop prison capacity in Norway, for 302 million. kr is a significant amount. I've been evaluated in a transition phase rather to have a system where you zone two on the cell, so that these 302 million. Can this year be used to improve the quality of housing conditions in Norway? The last question is: How many high-level prisons has the Minister of Justice visited during his time as Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1266	I perceive that the representative is concerned about where the prison capacity is. As I have said innumerable times – both here, in public spaces and elsewhere – it is a fact that without establishing these settlements in the Netherlands, it would not have been possible to carry out the refurbishment that is taking place, but it is therefore a temporary measure. It would have been impossible to close the settlement queue without having the Netherlands available. Then it's a fact that it's a temporary solution. This shall be terminated when Agder prison is completed. We will then have additional high-quality housing sites, new conditions for housing, which will help us to achieve even more rational use of prison structures in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1276	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Security the following questions: ‘The Norwegian contribution, the Olympic Commander ship, plays a central role in Frontex’ Mediterranean operation. By combining police, maritime and civilian personnel, it is those who are best able to expose and provide evidence against human traffickers, as well as to stop drug trafficking, etc. To date, 247 traffickers have been arrested and, among other things, seized. 3.5 tons of herbal cannabis. The Norwegian contribution is largely financed by Frontex funds, but it expires on 31 December. Would the government like to go in to extend the contribution?’ I want to make it clear that there should have been 25 tons of herbal cannabis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1287	Norway has contributed a vessel to Frontex’ joint operations in the Mediterranean since the summer of 2015. These operations are primarily intended to control borders, combat human trafficking and save people in distress at sea. The question of the further continuation of the ship’s contribution is addressed in the government’s 2018 government budget and it appears that Norway has contributed to the joint operations of Frontex Triton and Poseidon. The contribution to the rescue operation Poseidon, with the rescue boat «Peter Henry von Koss», was completed in June 2017, while the contribution to the operation Triton is continued out in 2017 with the ship «Olympic Commander». The Government proposes that Norway’s contribution to Triton should not be continued in 2018. The arrivals over the central Mediterranean have decreased, reducing the amount of rescue operations in which the Norwegian contribution has been involved. It has been a political priority for Norway to contribute to Frontex’ operations in the Mediterranean. Norwegian contributions have been unique in their form and duration. No other country has contributed the same technical resources over time and as coherent as Norway. The concepts are also unique, as it is the first time a Member State has rented a ship as a contribution to Frontex. It is also the first time that a charitable organisation, the Rescue Company, has been involved in cooperation with national authorities on contributions. The contributions to Frontex’ operations in the Mediterranean have resulted in a cost of 182.2 million. kr after including the reimbursements from Frontex. In addition, the capacity released by the police comes to this service. Norway has contributed 65 annual works to the operations in 2017, the contribution of the police being 30,5 annual works. It is now natural for other countries to go in with their contributions, after Norway has taken such a heavy responsibility over a long period of time, in the same way as for example. has rolled in the anti-pirate operations in the Gulf of Aden. Like the representative, Mr Bøhler, I would like to highlight the value of the contribution that Norway has made to these operations. This applies not least to police, defence, shipping and rescue personnel who have taken on a demanding duty. The shooting targets we have received have been good, and it is reassuring to know that Norway, when the situation requires it, can contribute professionally. In this way, we owe a big thank you to all those who have been involved in contributing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1298	I thank you for your answer. There is a very large consensus about the pink Minister of Justice giving to the efforts made in the Mediterranean and those who have worked there. So I'm 100 pst. Agreed. What I wish we could pay more attention to is that the mission they have had has now been shifted from rescue operations – as the Council of State indicated it has become fewer – to more border control. As a result, efforts in the field of human traffickers and drug trafficking and other crime have become more and more important in this task. There, Norway has a genuine concept of the mix of police, maritime defence and civilians in Triton, and it is those who have provided the most evidence to the Italian authorities in terms of the conviction of human traffickers. With regard to Norway’s response to trafficking in human beings, which is crucial for how to deal with immigration into Europe in the future: will the Council not place greater emphasis on this in the assessment of our contribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1307	As I explained in my original answer, the assumptions have changed, but the more important it is that Norway has contributed and contributed greatly in a spirit of solidarity, in addition to what many might expect of Norway, with the efforts we have shown and made on behalf of Frontex in the Mediterranean. Then it's time for others to take that stick on. Norway has set up. We've done ours. We have taken responsibility. We must also expect other European countries to do that. It is then natural that we are now phased out the mission in the Mediterranean, to which we refer in the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1312	I also thank you for the additional response and understand that there is a willingness to contribute back, even if you will now end. What is the question, is if someone takes that stick further, because what Norway has put up with has been the largest ship now. That ship, as I said, has had a composition in terms of competence — police and maritime defence — which has helped most to expose traffickers and help Italian authorities in the work that is so important to us here in Norway. For this, we are deciding how to deal with immigration into Europe and border control. The question is: if you are concerned about this, you should discuss with Frontex if there are anyone who takes that stick further, and if Frontex will contribute more to maintaining the Norwegian contribution than they have now made, i.e. that the costs for Norway can be reduced. Since the summer of 2015, we have built up a great competence – also among those who run this from Kripos here in Norway – that we should think about how we should continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1321	Yes, it's correct, as the representative of Bohemia says, that we have built up a good competence. There have been competent crews who have carried out their mission in the Mediterranean. But as I explained, it is natural that Norway is now passing on the staf stick to others who, on behalf of Frontex, are able to carry out the actions that are necessary based on the interest in keeping these limits. It is true that Norway does not complete all contributions to Frontex. We will contribute in other ways, and Norway will jointly and severally continue to make appropriate contributions to Frontex operations. Norway must continue to do so. It's just not natural to go on in the form that we've had it so far. But Norway will set up, and we will contribute where it is natural.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1331	‘In News of Day 18 on 8 November, the Minister of Justice confirmed that general armaments would be an obligation to be armed with the police. Also in meeting with schools and kindergartens. On concrete questions whether the police should also have to carry weapons in front of kindergarten children if the police are armed, the Council of State stated that ‘I think we can find good guidelines on this’. What are the guidelines of the Council of State, and are there other cases than in the presence of children in kindergarten where the Minister of Justice believes it would be relevant to guidelines to prevent the police from carrying weapons, by general armaments of the Norwegian police?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1338	I understand that the Aasen-Svensruds representative's question concerns whether the police should be armed during visits to schools and kindergartens if – and I stress if – general weapons are introduced. So it's a hypothetical question that the Storting will be allowed to decide in good time. However, during the temporary armaments from November 2014 to February 2016, the Police Directorate instructed the police districts to assess the need to carry weapons on the basis of risk and vulnerability analyses and specifically mentioned tasks such as psychiatry transport, contact with relatives, prevention services and the presence of religious arenas. In future, if police are armed, it will be assessed whether national guidelines are to be provided as to when police should avoid carrying weapons. If the police are to carry weapons in a specific situation, it will be decided on the basis of risk and vulnerability analyses. I once again stress that this is a theoretical issue, which will of course be assessed if the Stortinget wants to introduce general armaments of the Norwegian police. So this is not a current issue today. There may be a discussion in the follow-up to the Committee on Arms Investigation, but it is not a current issue at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1347	Do I understand the Minister of Justice right if I then understand him there that he believes that when a general weapon might be imposed on the police, then he believes that there should be occasions when the police don't have to carry weapons? Can the Minister of Justice elaborate on what possible situations?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1352	As I pointed out in my main response, the weapons we had from 2014 to 2016 were added precisely to the fact that there were situations, arenas and places where the police did not carry weapons. Then it was specifically referred to meetings with relatives, religious arenas, etc. It will also be natural to look at those kinds of problems in connection with visits to a school or kindergarten. However, it is natural that these guidelines, if any, should be assessed nationally by the introduction of general weaponry by the Norwegian police. It would be quite natural for this to be done in connection with it. But I want to underline again: it's a theoretical problem. We're not there anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1357	Does the Council of State consider that it is not the general threat situation in the country to lay the groundwork for general armaments and that general armaments can be introduced if the threat situation is not so serious that the police should carry weapons on every occasion?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1362	It's the Stortinge that adopts the police law. It is the Stortinget who is taking the lead in how the Norwegian police are going to be in the future. We will have ample opportunity to discuss that in this room. Any proposals from the government will be submitted in the follow-up to the precisely investigation by the Committee on Arms. In this context, it would be quite natural to address precisely the kind of issues raised by the representative of Aasen-Svensrud. It would be very natural for discussions to be held in this Chamber and in the Committee to draw up an understanding of the design of any such legislation. Something else would be completely unnatural.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1370	‘New emergency medical regulations require ambulances to be crewed with two persons, both of whom must hold a driving licence and a certificate of competence as a driver of an express vehicle. This requirement means that apprentices can no longer be permanent staff of ambulances. Professional advice on health and education has proposed a new training model that ensures that apprentices can fill the ambulance. Will the Council of State ensure that such a training model for the ambulance worker is introduced as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1377	On 5 May the Ministry of Knowledge sent proposals for changes to the professional offer structure to be consulted. On 5 September the consultation was concluded, and I intend to decide on changes in the professional structure early in 2018. At the request of the social partners in the Professional Health and Growth Council, it was decided that amendments to the Ambulance Service should be dealt with in a separate process. The contents of the ambulance have been largely designed to give students and apprentices the competence to help acutely ill or injured patients. Ambulance services will continue to play a very central role in emergency medical treatment chains. It is therefore important that the ambulance profession continues to provide good basic emergency medical competence and that the operational parts of the subject support this. However, it is important that the content of the curriculum be reviewed in view of the fact that the ambulance service also participates in patient careers in which the patient has a condition that allows the provision of services in the home or in the community health service in accordance with, inter alia, the objectives of the cooperation reform. This sets new and high standards for the competence of personnel. Against this background, the Professional Counsellor for Health and Growth has proposed a new training model for the ambulance subject providing the necessary framework for updating the professional content in line with the professional development needs of the subject. The Education Directorate will submit proposals for changes to the training model for the ambulance profession at consultation very soon. That proposal will also cover the issue of certificates for call-out vehicles. In the light of the consultation, the device will be assessed on the basis of a new training model for vocational training in the ambulance sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1390	Thanks for the answer. There is a great deal of concern in healthcare professionals that this has taken so long. I have a letter sent to the Education Directorate on 18 October this year, where health professionals express great concern about the future of vocational training for the ambulance worker. They are very clear that now you need a permanent model for this subject, where one extends the training period to five years, so that one gets a certificate of competence for expressive driving and certification as part of the training. Now I understand that this will be sent out on the phone, but it is interesting to know if the council and the government see this need and are positive to such a model – and that it will be one of the important things that will be distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1397	This is an input that also has consequences in the sense that I believe that the economic and administrative consequences of extending the training period for ambulance training should be consulted. That's why I think it's very stupid if I'm now preconceiving some of this from Stortinget's pulpit. It's brought out absolutely important and good ideas that we just have to deal with in a proper way. I also understand the representative's impatience in the matter. That is why we have also announced that this should be consulted relatively quickly, I do not have an exact date here now, but it should be consulted, and it will be a good opportunity to comment on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1402	The Acute Medicine Regulation was adopted in 2015, and it was then a transition period of three years, so this is not a new issue. We arrived in 2017, the amendment from the Professional Council for Health and Growth was handed over to the Education Directorate one and a half years ago. Health professionals are now concerned about recruitment. It's very serious if you get a failure, that apprentices can no longer work in the ambulance, and there are no other personnel for a decisive part of our health care. The question is: is it that the educational authorities here have shown that they do not give priority to prehospital services and emergency medicine in the same way as they do through national health and hospital plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1407	No, I will certainly say that there is no vote. The proposal on new training models in the ambulance sector is not just a proposal for a change in structure. The proposal of the Professional Council for Health and Growth also goes beyond the current framework for higher education and, as the proposal is designed, could involve an extension of the costs of training in the ambulance. The proposal has therefore, I believe, called for additional treatment in the department compared to the other proposals and structural changes that have been made in the review of the supply structure. That's why we've had to work a little bit extra on this. But as I said, this will come to the hearing soon, and I am absolutely sure that it will also come up in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1415	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘Over several years, questions have been asked about whether the NDLA model is the best way to secure digital learning material in school. In spring 2017, the Church, Education and Research Committee adopted a clear expectation that the Minister of Knowledge would address the issue of the government's ICT strategy. It hasn't happened. Will the Council of State now engage in dialogue with the KS and the county councils on how best to organise the development and procurement of digital learning resources and teaching materials in initial training?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1424	NDLA is a municipal cooperation that buys and develops digital learning materials for use in Norwegian secondary schools on behalf of 18 county municipalities. The NDLA is fully funded by the county councils and each county council contributes about 20 pst. of the funds allocated to teaching material by each county from its own framework allocation. The Education Act places responsibility for the purchase of educational material on the school owners. The state has not earmarked funds for teaching materials, and there is currently no system of approval for teaching materials. The NDLA has also been assessed by ESA, the EFTA Surveillance Authority. The ESA concluded that the NDLA is not contrary to State aid law. With today's rules, there's nothing I as a knowledge minister can do directly with NDLA. The digitalisation strategy aims to provide a broad range of digital learning materials that can be adapted to the needs of individual students. The strategy describes both the NDLA and various ways in which the country can finance the development of digital learning resources so that this objective can be achieved. There we recognize that it is a dilemma that public free teaching material can undermine a commercial educational market. At the same time, commercial and publicly funded teaching materials must also be able to live side by side in the future. In addition, the strategy states that the government will contribute to the development of a system to stimulate the quality of teaching materials, including the assessment of law and regulation and the market for digital learning materials. Of course, we will do this in dialogue with the KS, the school owners and other stakeholders and stakeholders in the sector. The free learning media market is a prerequisite for innovation and diversity in learning material. At the same time, I believe that the State has a legitimate and important role to play in supporting the development of teaching materials in subjects and areas where there is no basis for commercial development. We can also help to stimulate the quality of learning materials. We therefore have measures in the strategy to strengthen the supply side, including: through the curriculum development grant scheme, and we have actions to provide schools and teachers with better tools to choose and demand good learning material.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1435	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it's good that he admits the dilemma. He's pushing the county councils in front of him. I just want to remind the Council of State that when he does, he himself called for a meeting of three councillors, the police and the Oslo Municipality of a single event in Oslo on his own initiative. So according to his own standard, this should absolutely qualify for the knowledge minister's involvement. Critical questions have been asked at NDLA over a longer period of time. The big question now is not what internal changes NDLA is making, but how to ensure that students in both secondary and primary schools receive the best possible digital learning materials and resources. It's a responsibility that not only the municipalities or county councils have. It is also a responsibility for the Stortinget and the Council of State. Now some believe that the same type of model should be introduced for primary school, where the market is relatively functioning. I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge whether he believes that this type of model is suitable and useful in primary school as well, or whether he believes that the work can be better organised both places.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1446	I will honestly admit that some of the issues that have been revealed about the way NDLA – at least allegedly, through a report – has operated, illustrates to me some of the problem that so many county councils join together, like such a major monopolist, in order to purchase learning material. It can create major challenges. As I said in my first post, ESA has tried this in court and stated that it is in line with the conditions of competition. In addition, the county councils – I think quite a few of them are governed by Henriksen's own party – have joined forces to purchase educational material in this way because, of course, it is an effective and good way for them to buy learning material. So it's actually a little demanding as the council to go in and either refuse the county councils to do it, or think a lot about how they choose to buy learning material. But what I'm very concerned about is that if the states are to continue to organise purchases in this way, it has to be done with open competition and with transparency around the conclusion of contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1453	I am pleased with some of the things the Minister of Knowledge now says, that he points to challenges. It is clear that NDLA is a municipal cooperation, and I am not asking the Minister of Knowledge to go in and refuse the county councils to do anything, but we want the Minister of Knowledge to be able to engage in dialogue with the county councils and the KS. We want him to engage in dialogue and also make a strategy, because we are now at a crossroads. New teaching materials will be developed in all disciplines, both digitally and traditionally. Therefore, it is urgent to clarify how we ensure that modern teaching materials are developed in a well-functioning market, open to the public, so that students can get the best learning materials they can get, and that there is freedom of choice for teachers. I believe that there is a need for a separate strategy for this. The government’s strategy for digitisation was not binding, it did not include money. The real question is: is the Minister of Knowledge open to take the initiative of a digitalisation strategy for the development of primary and secondary education? In that case, he will receive the wholehearted support of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1460	I have to start by saying that I totally disagree with the fact that this strategy is not binding, and I have not heard the representative or others from the Workers' Party propose to change that it is the school owners who buy the learning material. In fact, I think it creates a stronger anchoring in the individual municipality – in the individual counties as well – on which teaching materials are used. That is the question of how far we should go from national authorities to take control of or override it. I believe, however, that there are quite a number of interesting examples, including from other countries, of ways of finding sharing platforms that allow digital tools to be used. We're going to work continuously on digitization in school too. As the representative correctly points out, trade renewal also challenges many of these discussions. It's hard for me now to determine exactly how we're going to do it, but I'm absolutely interested in looking at how we can create a healthy competition and a healthy market, even for those who want to come in and compete, even though the county councils today buy in together.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1470	I allow myself to ask this question to the Council of State: ‘Founded in the decline in foreign students, and that the Right's investment in the BRICS countries seems to have not produced significant results in the number of incoming students, and that NORPART does not start properly until after 2018, what will the government do to have more students from developing countries come to Norway to study?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1477	Before I get into the NORPART programme in particular, I want to provide factual information about the number of students from developing countries at Norwegian universities and colleges. The report shows that in 2015 there were 8,350 students from developing countries in Norway, while the figure for 2016 was 9,017 – an increase of 8 pst. Of course, I don't have the figures for 2017 yet. So I know that these numbers are complex, and it can also be due to moving to Norway. However, it is important to include this as background information when discussing the number of students from developing countries to Norway. The size decided in 2015 to replace the quota scheme for students from developing countries, countries on the Western Balkans, Eastern Europe and Central Asia with programmes supporting institutional cooperation in education and student mobility. The new programmes have been developed in order to develop a clearer picture of both development policy and knowledge policy objectives in education and training cooperation with developing countries. Some of the released funds go to action under the Panorama Strategy for Higher Education and Research Cooperation with Brazil, India, Japan, China, Russia and South Africa – the so-called BRICK countries plus Japan. The UTFRESK and INTPART programmes support, inter alia: student mobility with these countries. The majority of the released funds from the quota system go to the Norwegian Global Academic Cooperation Partnership Programme (NORPART), which finances project cooperation and extensive student mobility with developing countries outside the BRICS countries. NORPART supports committed institutional academic cooperation and mutual student mobility between higher education institutions in Norway and developing countries. In line with, at that time, the setting up of the Church Education and Research Committee, student exchange through academic partnership is a core element of the programme with high emphasis on the scholarship of students from developing countries in Norway. The students will largely come from the same countries as under the quota system, such as Ethiopia, Ghana and Zambia. NORPART suggests that the number of students coming to Norway from developing countries should be at the same level as under the quota scheme, depending on the size of future appropriations. However, each individual stay will normally be of shorter duration. The representative Sandberg points out that the programme ‘does not start properly until after 2018’. However, after two call rounds in 2016 it has already been allocated approx. $98 million. kr for long-term cooperation projects between institutions in Norway and in developing countries and beyond. 2.5 million. kr in project development funds, i.e. in total over 100 million. kr. It takes time for the funds to be fully effective, and it is only now in the autumn that students have seriously started coming to Norway as a result of the projects that received funding more than a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1492	Thanks for the answer. I'm based on statistics, which show decline, and also on concrete enquiries from colleges, which say the same thing. This allowance programme had two important additional functions. It was a way to run assistance. A clear majority of the places went to the global south, and it gave unmiddled students an opportunity to come here to study. The majority returned from a study and contributed to the building of skills in their home country. Secondly, there was one way to get Norwegian institutions to learn, such as teaching places. University of Oslo and Akershus, who no longer have any African students on their masters, for example. the person concerned with multicultural and international education. We lose valuable competences and perspectives when these students disappear as a result of the cancellation of the quota system. So my follow-up question is: how will the government's student exchange strategies take care of these important considerations?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1499	In the quality message, i.e. Report. St. 16 for 2016-2017, Culture for Quality in Higher Education, we also explained that some of the problem with the quota system was that not so many people went back and took their skills with them to their home country. That's something we want to do better. The second is that the reason for the slow pace is, of course, that those who have been involved in this quota system are going to complete their education before this slow, but certainly phased over to a new way of fixing it. That's why it's going to take some time, but you can see that evolution is going well. The third is that I very much believe that a cooperation that closer links the institutions will anchor this better in the individual classroom. Once again, it will both lead to a better education, perhaps a better exchange, and ensure that more of the students we want to attract from just these countries and provide a good competence and education, actually get it through a better quality than what the old quota system had.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1508	It's been a little bit unclear to Stortinget what the government gets out of this Panorama bet. Although the Council of State now had to insist that it works, despite the fact that the number of students is falling both among those leaving, and those returning from the BRICS countries, the decline shows that it has been important to ask why the government is at the tip of the bet in a few countries. But when half the reduction in the number of foreign students is due to fewer coming from Africa, my last question is whether this is a wild policy from the Right-Fremskrit party government. In that case, the scheme works well. But we in the Labour Party do not want this. I would ask the Council of State to be clear in its answer: what does the government do to make it more and not fewer students from the global south?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1513	First of all, I can make it clear that it is a desirable development that we should also attract more students from these countries. When we left the quota system, it was precisely because we saw that it did not have the function that I believe the representative Sandberg and I want, that these are going to come to Norway, get a good education and take values, value creation and knowledge back to their home country. Then it is that the 2016 project distribution showed great commitment from the sector and very many good project applications, and we see that the activity of the projects that have been supported is great, and we expect that it will increase the number of students from developing countries to Norway. This is something we're going to follow quite carefully also in the future. But it's the way that the purpose of this change, which got broad agreement also in this room, is just to provide a better system than what the quota system originally was.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1522	Then today's regular Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-15.ana.ud267e1536	There is no record available. Thus, the map is currently processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
