ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e20	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e25	On behalf of Karin Andersen, Freddy André Hövstegård and myself, I have the honour of promoting a proposal for a representative to ensure the transparency of health and care institutions that provide services under municipal authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e30	The representative, Mr Pollestad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e35	On behalf of Nils T. Bjørke, Heidi Greni, Marit Knutsdatter Strand and myself, I have delighted to make a proposal to strengthen preparedness through a stronger soil protection and food storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e40	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Continued treatment of
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e58	Before the debate starts today, the President will take the opportunity to inform the new representatives that the agenda and the agenda for today's debate are on the agenda. They can also get up on their mobile phone. If representatives need guidance on this, they can get it on the outside. The President goes on to refer to the adopted debate from yesterday, and the Stortinget is now continuing the throne debate, where the first speaker is Prime Minister Erna Solberg. It opens up a line change limited to 14 lines after the Prime Minister’s posts. The President will propose that the 14 lines be distributed as follows: The Labour Party five lines, the Central Party three lines, the Socialist Left Party two lines, the Left one line, the Christian People's Party one line, the Greens one line and the Red one line. Those who sign up on the list of speakers will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e73	Let me begin by congratulating all the big business representatives on the election and the re-election respectively. I look forward to the cooperation in Stortinget this year that comes. There are many important issues that lie ahead of Norway as a nation, and on which I hope we will have constructive cooperation. When we're going to discuss the future, it's also wise to have the past with us. Behind us lies a period that illustrates with all clarity how close Norway is woven into the rest of the world. Both the oil price drop and the migration crisis were the result of international events. That the oil price was reduced by 75 pst. was the most dramatic activity shock for the Norwegian economy in several decades. The financial crisis was primarily about ensuring that banks did not end up. It was demanding, but we could solve that by adding capital to the banks. The fall in the oil price challenged the basis of existence of the nation's sovereign main industry. Over 40,000 jobs were lost, over 40,000 people lost their jobs. Many families experienced uncertain and difficult times. The cooperation parties came together on how to deal with the fall in the oil price. To keep the activity of the economy up and get our hands on work, we invested in line with the rule of action. It wouldn't be right to sit still with your hands in jail and watch people get out when Norway had the opportunity to invest. At the same time, it was important not to hinder investment but to support it during long-term transitions. For migration, Norway is by no means opposed. Like the rest of the world, we need to transform ourselves into a working life and an economy that is characterised by increased climate demands, more technology, robotization and digitisation. In addition – and that is the strange challenge – we need to shift from an extremely profitable industry, which has been the absolute engine of the Norwegian economy, to a slow, but surely smaller, contribution. So the Norwegian economy needs more legs to stand on. Then the economy has to be smarter, greener and more innovative. That's how we get economic growth, which can also give more jobs, and it's going to contribute to a more sustainable welfare society. We ensure sustainable well-being by getting more people to work, and we get more people to work through a good business policy that just creates jobs. That's why we have to facilitate this. It will be the most important job in the years to come if we want to safeguard the welfare of future generations in Norway. But we must not just prevent people from falling off the labour market, we must also involve more people in the labour market. Norway’s failure in the years 2008–2014 was to use the economic growth at that time to increase its employment share. LLO’s then chief economist, Stein Reegård, said in 2014: ‘Since the financial crisis in 2008, the whole employment growth has caused foreign labour.’ Therefore, when economic growth comes to the fore, it will be important for the government to get more Nordics out of work today. By strengthening the working line, we also ensure small differences in Norway in the future, and we strengthen the working line by rusting the individual. Many hundreds of thousands of Nordics lack basic skills in both reading, writing, numeracy and, above all, ICT. We need to ensure that the competence of each of us keeps up with the development of new technology, automation and digitisation. In the future, the government will present a lot of measures to ensure that no one goes out to date in the world of work. It's necessary to think about this area. In cooperation with the social partners, we want to stimulate and support skills measures – raising the skills of adults. For competence, the key to jobs in the future labour market is, and jobs are the way to increased income and wealth – not only for the country but also for the individual. More people have to be longer at work, and more people have to be at work. Therefore, it must also be more profitable to work. The government will invest significantly in early efforts. The more children get the best starting point early in life, the more people will stand on their own as adults. Therefore, the government will also focus on mental health and raise the employment perspective more strongly in cooperation with both integration policy and health policy. The government assumes that we will never give up on humans. It's brutal and hard and creates a colder society if we tell people that we don't need them. To make demands is to care, and that's to believe in people. That is why we will demand attendance in high school, and we demand activity for young social welfare recipients. I have met many young people who say that they were initially not so very happy to be asked for, but who in retrospect are very happy that they were asked to do so. But business also has a responsibility. I will continue to challenge and encourage us to build down barriers to give people with holes in the CV a new chance to show up and master at work. For Norway, the starting point for successful conversion and ensuring a sustainable welfare society is good. In the future, it is expected that the economy will grow more than has been normal. Equally full, we should encourage even more entrepreneurs and innovators. The government wants changes in both the tax system and welfare systems that make it more attractive to start something new and to start it on its own. We should not pursue an old-fashioned policy of higher taxes and more regulation where state enterprises and stronger government governance of the economy are to be the key to conversion. It does not work in the future technology effort and labour market. One should not base economic policy on increased taxes and taxes. It has socio-economic costs, including: in the form of a reduction in the labour force. When economic growth is speeding up, the state must provide less gas in order not to weaken the ability of Norwegian companies to compete internationally. We have been through a strong effort by the social partners, and we have had a lower crown price, which has given us competitive advantage over the last few years. We must not lose that in the years to come. In the future, the growth of oil money use will be lower than it has been. At the same time, we know that a lot of expenditure will increase. The population in Norway is getting older, we have to renovate the defence and infrastructure, hospitals are to be built and rehabilitated. That is why it is not just the economy that needs to be converted into Norway. In addition to creating more jobs, if we are to secure well-being, we need to get better quality and more well-being out of every taxpayer we use. The government will therefore continue to modernise and convert. We have already taken many steps – the red tape and efficiency reform, the pursuit of time thieves, the reform of the road and rail sectors, funding for ICT projects, joint procurement agreements in the state and specialist health services, as well as the transition to digital mail, to mention something. Everything helps us to free up funds that can be used to improve the quality of new areas. It provides a bigger room for action in the years to come than we would if we hadn't done this. In the future, we must both digitise, streamline and modernise more in Norwegian society, simply because we have many ambitions on behalf of those who are the weakest in our society – those who need more health care, those who need more targeted action. We have to raise society better, and then we have to be critical of every penny we use. There is increasing uncertainty internationally. The world has become more unpredictable. It also affects us when the United Kingdom votes in favour of Brexit and the United States withdraw from the Paris Agreement. Strong forces in different countries want more solitude and less community. The international community and meeting shall be held by Norway. The Government shall take care of Norwegian interests. Concerns about international trade may also give rise to more protectionism. As Norway is a small country with an open economy, Norway has an interest in strong trade relations and a strong international framework for, among others, combating climate change. Norway's membership in NATO is important to ensure our peace and freedom. One simple twig is easy to break, a bunch of twigs isn't. That is why the government is a supporter of cooperation. We are supporters of cooperation in NATO, in the United Nations and in the EU and support under multilateral organisations, so that we have common rules of play and a common basis for international cooperation. Norway is NATO in the north. In the years to come, we must strengthen our military presence in the north. Another major challenge in the future is violent extremism. It is a threat to our liberal Western democracies. Therefore, it is also important that we continue to work to combat it, both through international contributions, through strengthening our domestic security and preparedness, and through preventive work to ensure that extremism does not get its foothold on our soil – it is Islamic fundamentalist extremism or right-wing extremist organisations. The four non-socialist parties were given a majority in the election of the year, and the government will therefore continue its work. The government is going to build on the broad consensus that has been reached, among other things. on the tax system, on research and higher education, on infrastructure and on defence. The government invites Stortinget to cooperate in order to create what we in the Common Era have stressed – a sustainable welfare society. We're probably not going to agree on all the tools, but I hope we can agree that this generation's politicians have a commitment, and that's to make sure that we create a society that makes the next generation of young people have as good opportunities as we have in our society. It requires that we dare to have a main focus on the sustainable welfare society in the future – environmental sustainability, economic sustainability, but also sustainability inclusive, ensuring that everyone can participate in the development of well-being together in the future. So we have a lot of work ahead of us, and together we're taking four new years into service for the voters and the country. The problems are going to be both national and international, and so the majority have to be formed in this room. I put my trust that the Storting will act constructively, so that it will still be possible to form a majority that is broad enough to bear the development of Norway over time, that we all do our best for the voters and the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e107	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e112	We've had a day of the persuasion debate. We've heard the speech of the throne. I have to say, if we look back four years, it's a pretty strong contrast to the government we met then, which was dealing with politics and ambitions, and the one we got in the throne. I thought it was a throne speech that was more gray than blue. It mentioned some developments, but there were strikingly little warnings about new policies, new plans, new reforms and ambitions to meet the challenges we are facing. It will be exciting to follow. So this hall is different -- it's a new majority. What I experienced in yesterday's debate was that the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party were very busy saying what they expected of the bulk of the population. Now it became clear yesterday that there is a majority to expand the feather quota. I think the Prime Minister is happy about that, because she's really in favour of it. But while there are great expectations of what the majority here is going to think – and I can assure you that we will have an impact on our policy – the question is: how can we expect a new government to act against the majority of the Stortinget? For it now needs to adapt to a new parliamentary situation. What does the Prime Minister think of changes in the approach to the Great Britain from the Right-Fremskrit party government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e119	The government is fully aware that the government is a minority government. We were initially also in the previous period, but with an agreement on how to consult, and a political agreement on some issues. We're still going to seek a broad majority for important, large-scale action in the future, and then we're going to rely on the voters giving the non-socialist parties a majority, which we'll try to manage in the best possible way through, among other things. budgetary treatment and matters dealt with in the Storting. To the comments that the census is «grey»: we have chosen to make a short throne speech this year, which has concentrated on what is two important main action in the future, perhaps just not to drown it in many singles or many guttering messages, which were common before this government joined. Because there are two main projects: one is sustainable welfare in the future, the other is security for Norway. Setting these major projects on rail will be crucial. Then comes reforms and proposals and changes continuously, and some important steps were taken in the comparisons in the previous period...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e126	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e131	There will probably also be a new government platform, on which we heard it will be negotiated, so that we will get a new debate on what a possible Solberg II government will stand for. That's still Solberg In our relationship to. Yesterday the Prime Minister said that she was going to take responsibility for the whole thing – she warned the Storting against resolution-making. But here in Stortinget, I think we can assure you on behalf of the Workers' Party: we must be constructive, we must make proposals, we must have an impact on our policies. Of course it has to be responsible. I'm still looking to understand: what's new in the approach of the government to a new majority in the Grand Duchy? In the last period we had four parties with an agreement, and we also had a Progress Party that was one thing in government and one thing in Stortinget. It was a new contribution to our parliamentaryism. So now we get a majority here -- the government has lost its majority, it's a minority government. How will the Prime Minister, and perhaps in particular the parties in the Grand Duchy, the Right and the Advance Party, because those who are to have the policy implemented and have the majority here, deal with a great deal that no longer has an agreement on majority voting?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e138	Let me first say something about a new platform: it is that the two government parties and the Left have agreed that we will continue discussions on possible forms of cooperation in the future. In that work, of course, we will also discuss which projects and individual matters will be between the three parties. We'll conclude with that, if we agree. Whether that means government participation for an additional party, or whether it means further cooperation in the Storting, will be seen, but there will be a basis for some political individual case clarifications. Our starting point is – as it stood in the Common Era, and as I said in my post – that there was a non-socialist majority at the four parties that stood together in the previous period. That's what I'm experiencing is the area we'll primarily consult first, but we were open in the last period and are going to talk to all parties about the important, big issues. We have always known that we were a minority government, even though we had an agreement in the previous period, and we will strive to find good common solutions in the goal of a sustainable welfare society, security for Norway and to keep the direction of development in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e145	In one area, this government has been remarkably passive, and it is taking action that the proportion of us who are at work is falling. I heard the Prime Minister now say that in 2014 it was pointed out that Norway had suffered a decline since 2008. Yes, all OECD countries had a decline in the share of jobs after the financial crisis, but Norway is the exception that has only continued to decline. In the last four years, in the last twelve quarters, there has been a decrease all the way. This is in many ways the bomb under the welfare state and the revenue and implementation of all that is in the perspective notification. Once again, I miss the government's specific policy. We're talking about qualifying people not being allowed to go out to date. But these are words and headlines – where is the policy to address this major problem, which just seems to be increasing? In 2013, Erna Solberg was among those who talked most about alienation. That outsider has continued to grow. She almost doesn't talk about it anymore, nor is it politics to see. How will the government implement policies to increase the number of people at work, reduce the proportion outside the job – especially the proportion of young people who are currently outside the job?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e152	I am very pleased that the Workers' Party now realises that the development of employment in the years from 2008 to 2014 has gone in the wrong direction. The biggest case we had in the employment share was in that period. I think we should have a professional approach to that, because there are different reasons and different reasons for this. What we've seen in this period is that we had a further fall in the employment rate below the oil price drop. What we've seen in the last two quarters is that it's now stabilized. The forecasts available are that the employment rate will increase in the future. And fortunately, from the second quarter of 2016 to the second quarter of 2017, employment in Norway has increased by 24 000. It shows that the signs of the economy are better. We've done a lot of things. Among other things, we have the doubling of the funds for the Skills plus Scheme, a mechanism established under the previous bourgeois government, which we continue and strengthen, and which contributes to competence. We have many additional measures that the representative will have the full opportunity to join during the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e162	Persistent decline in the proportion under this government: when we left, the proportion was about the same level as when we went into 2005 — but enough about it. Other important conditions in the labour market are inactivity, semi-crime and total crime. I noticed, as I quoted in my speech yesterday, that the National Association of Construction, an NHO association, pointed out that there was a lack of leadership and implementation of adopted policies and supervisory authorities to clean up these conditions. This is probably an area where I think the government is talking about politics, they say they're sending it to the hearing, but they're not implementing politics. Just before the Storting went apart, almost 30 proposals were voted down here that would address this fundamental relationship of job security for people who are out in our labour market and who experience unprofessionalism. I think this – in addition to the falling proportion of people at work – is one of the greatest threats to maintaining core qualities in our welfare community. Will the government now show the leadership and actually implement measures that clean up the parts of the labour market where there are unprofessional conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e171	In the period from 2008 to 2014, almost all new jobs were made available to people who came to Norway as migrant workers. We couldn't have a better policy to get the Nordics who lived in the country, or the immigrants who already lived in the country, more out to work. It's our big challenge, and I think we should agree on that. The red-greens couldn't do that. We have to have a different policy when the growth is now back, than the one that was before. This government has ambitions about it. In the field of labour crime, this government has created an action plan and a renewal of the one that has many concrete measures, including: demand that we have apprentices for all public tenders. There are also a number of other requirements. We've built new work centres, and that's a good job. In addition to this, we are now working with clear initiatives towards the European Commission in relation to our experience of cross-border movement creating problems because it is not followed up in other Member States. We are now working on this initiative to put on the agenda practical solutions that help us to implement many measures, which are difficult today because other countries do not follow up on their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e180	The problem is that those who are close to this do not notice anything about the initiatives they see no difference. But let me take a final question about the budget. This is a budget leak, but it's very, very small, so the Prime Minister should be able to give it. A few days ago, the Minister of Culture announced that she would cut off support for the Islamic Council of Norway. It was done after an overall assessment. I think I support that assessment, that it was right to do that. It is regrettable that this organisation is now losing its reputation, because it was important in the dialogue that was between life-vision societies. However, there is another support, at about the same level, that goes to the Human Rights Service, an organisation to operate under the grant scheme Grants to the national resource environment in the integration field and to engage in dialogue and integration. It does not operate them; they are engaged in stigmatisation of immigrants, Muslims, who are now to be photographed and hung on websites. We, as large communities, can show a clear view of this. We're not going to have harassment of minorities, so the aid can amount to 1.8 million. kr from the State budget is withdrawn. Then we send out a clear signal about where our standards and values stand. Will the Prime Minister do that in the budget that comes tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e191	The budget coming tomorrow was completed long before the campaign that HRS has now made, so the light of day. It is true that the budget line has been used to finance many different organisations contributing to integration, but primarily to the public debate on integration and immigration. When I was a municipal minister responsible for this, I used to say that I kept alive in everyone who spent most of his time filling the newspapers with criticism of me. That's a little bit of the price of democracy. We also fund our critics, we contribute to the hearing of votes, and we contribute to the breadth of the discussion. In fact, I think the discussion about that organisation can well be a discussion about exactly what they contribute to in terms of integration, but then we need to have a discussion about: are we going to fund a wide range of voices in the field of immigration and integration, or are we going to just fund those that we like what we say? It's actually a new principle in democracy if we're just going to finance them as we like what we say.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e202	The parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Hans Andreas Limi, announced yesterday that there would be a new government platform for the Right and the Advance Party. In the answer to Erna Solberg instead, you could hear that there would be some simple clarifications. Let's go back a little bit in history. In 2009, when the red-green regained power, we sat down, we negotiated, we presented a new platform where we showed direction and direction for the country, before the throne debate. My question to the Prime Minister is, Is Limi right? Is it going to be a new government platform, or can we just experience this government as a business ministry that doesn't have a plan that doesn't have a course that doesn't have a direction? I hope we can get a clear answer from the Prime Minister when it comes, and possibly why it does not come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e209	The throne showed the government's course. My article showed the government's course. It is a sustainable welfare society with all the policies that belong to it: mental health, integration policies, ensuring that more people come to work, ensuring that jobs are created, providing entrepreneurs in several areas. The government is not empty for policy. We have lots left. We have both the Health Declaration and other things that show the direction of it. But we have a political situation where the two government parties are going to negotiate with the Left about a possible government participation and a common platform with a completely new party. That makes us take that investigation and possibly the round of negotiations first. When we're done with that, we'll figure out if it's based on that, and then we'll have a platform that includes more than two games – three games. It would be totally unnatural if the two government parties were to create a common platform, negotiated between themselves, and then entered into negotiations with a third party on a possible new platform. It is true that there are three parties negotiating – with their three political programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e216	It's really impossible to understand the answer, because I get the impression that Erna Solberg, the Prime Minister, does not know even if she wants to have a new platform if the Right and Advance Party are going to rule on. It's very neat about the Storting and how to govern the country, that a government has a direction, a course, new ideas, and possibly better solutions to what one wants to achieve with power. It would be strange that it's only if the left goes in, that you have new ideas and better solutions, and a course and a direction. Yesterday we saw an example: Jan Tore Sanner was here, and he said that the municipal reform should continue. How is it going to proceed? Is there going to be more coercion? Is there going to be big, new bureaucratic processes around all the municipalities of the country? Or do you want to give work rest so that you can talk about content instead of structure? It owes a government the country. There must be predictability, and there must be clarity. I wonder again: is there going to be a new platform? And what is the plan, if any, in the community merger discussion? Or doesn't the government have a plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e223	I actually think the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum is a little bit faster than what he's giving the impression on the pulpit right now. I think he's very well understood what the political situation is, and that we're going to interact and discuss. In addition, we have political programmes, we have a large Sundvolden platform, we agree on the number of thrones and the direction forward. So I think people outside this hall understand what the government is saying, and what I'm saying about this. Of course, we have to negotiate how we detail all these areas. As regards the municipal reform, Jan Tore Sanner showed yesterday the agreement between four parties at the treatment in Stortinget, who said that the municipal reform should continue in the next period. That means we want to talk to the four parties that agreed on it, and then we want to design, based on the four parties, guidelines for it. This is, in fact, to follow the majority of the population who have expressed themselves in the context of landfill treatment, and it must be a minority government that is serious and serious. I'm going to do that in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e230	I thank the Prime Minister for thinking I'm quick!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e235	Take it as a compliment!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e240	I've had a lot of things happen in the world over the last four years since the Sunvold Declaration. For example, IS has appeared. We have experienced that Russia has annexed a neighbouring country. A great deal has happened in both world and national policies in four years. Therefore, it is quite natural and quite right, if you are given a renewed opportunity to have government power, to go through what is the situation now. What's the plan? What is the strategy? What messages should we provide? How to plan the Norwegian public sector? Some of the planlessness that we've seen applies, for example. regional reform. Now I want to give Erna Solberg an opportunity: does Erna Solberg think it was very reasonable, what happened in the spring of this year, that you coerced Buskerud, Akershus and Østfold? Does Solberg think it is a well-functioning region that you have it from Halden to Hardangervidda? And does Solberg think it's a defeat if Stortinget now corrects the mistake that happened in ours?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e248	The starting point for the two government parties was that both of them are followers of the fact that we have two levels of government in Norway. We believe it is a challenge with a regional level, because there are too few political tasks left for it. We've accepted that we're the only two parties on the Stortinget that believe it, and that's why we've said yes, we're going to do something beyond the regional level that makes it better, stronger, more forward-looking, more effective. This is the basis for a regional reform involving different drawing of the map. This is the fourth time since 2000, that we have a discussion in Stortinget – the one we had in ours – about the regional level. This is probably an example that we haven't found the right type of regional level, and then we're trying something new. I understand that the Central Party wants to go back to what has repeatedly been shown that those who are for a regional level are not satisfied with, and everyone has thoughts that we should do something else. Now let's do something else. Of course, you can discuss whether what we've done is perfect. But our problem is that we need to move forward in these discussions, and now we are organizing ourselves in a way that is more efficient and helps to solve some of the common areas of a housing and labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e253	It was interesting to learn that the government has two main projects – not so surprising to note that neither the increasing inequality of power and wealth in our country nor climate policy are among the main government projects. In the throne, the government announced tougher times. There's good reason to fear that it means that it'll be tough for those who have the least, because the experience with this government until now has been that it listens most to the economic elite. It'll hardly get the load this time either. The government has behind it a four-year period in which, despite large, large-scale use of money, it has carried out a series of unsocial cuts, affecting those at least in the Norwegian community. Now there's a parent rebellion on the move linked to one of the cuts, that's within the care scheme. I wonder what the Prime Minister has to say to the parents who have so bravely stood up and show the raw consequences for their children of the new rules. I wonder if it makes the impression on the Prime Minister, and whether she is willing to make changes to the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e262	A sustainable welfare society – as I also said from the very Chair – includes the challenges of adapting to new climate requirements, we are going to ensure that our climate objectives are met. It's part of the sustainability concept. I thought it was quite obvious. What is important to us is that welfare sustainability is also about combating major differences in a society and ensuring further development, so that everyone can make use of their opportunities. It is therefore wrong when the representative says that climate issues and inequalities – and the causes of inequality – are not part of the main government projects. It's part of the sustainability of our welfare society in the future. It makes a lot of sense to me to see people who have difficulties with care money – they have had that for many years. Therefore, for many years on Stortinget, the right-hand side of the street was thwarted in order to get an improved care allowance system. For six years we challenged the red-green government here in Stortinget to make improvements for many of those who felt the then legislation worse. Now we've doubled the arrangement, we've made improvements, and we've done some tightening. A lot more people now get an opportunity that the red-greens didn't give them. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e269	The number is out. - Audun Lysbakken, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e274	My question was not linked to the improvements in the care scheme, which we wholeheartedly support. My question was related to those who get paid less, and to those who are affected by time constraints that mean that seriously ill children do not have the parents with them when they need it, or that families have to choose between the safety of the children and the security of the economy. We have to make sure that the families who may have it tougher by all in Norway do not make that choice, that they will have security for their economy during the time they have to be present for their children. Then we have to reverse the change that was made, linked to the fact that one does not get full pay for more than one year. It must be a simple principle, that one can receive a care allowance for as long as the child needs it. There are proposals for consideration in the Storting on this. I think it would be interesting to clarify from the Prime Minister whether that is how she refuses to make changes to the restrictions that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e283	First, I would like to say when the representative Lysbakken continuously mentions what has been cut in the care allowance – I have also heard representatives from SV say that it is to finance tax relief for the rich – that we have doubled the payments from the state budget to the care allowance scheme with the reform we have implemented. So we've taken the promises for the care scheme that the red-greens wouldn't take. But when we extended the scheme for many of the parents who felt that they did not receive care, that it was unpredictable, bureaucratic and difficult, we had to see if this scheme was sustainable if we were to have so many more. That's why we've made some changes to make you get the same compensation you'd get if you were a grown-up for a year, and then you'd switch to other arrangements. Of course, we're able to look at changes. Among other things, we agreed with the change that was made at Stortinget, which just means that with the most seriously ill children they have an opportunity to apply for longer periods of time within this scheme. It is an exceptional rule that was adopted during the course of the Stortinget proceedings. But it costs an incredible amount of money. We've doubled the payments to the care scheme, we've invested in this, which is important to us. We can make improvements to these arrangements, but it has to be done within an economic framework that we know has worked, and we have to make sure that we do not assume the responsibilities of the municipalities through this. [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e292	The number is out. – The next replicator is Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e297	I am pleased that the Prime Minister refers to competence as an important part of the job of getting more people to work and more to succeed in the Norwegian labour market. If we're going to be able to build a welfare state that's sustainable in the future, it's important. But I think maybe she talked very little about building skills at the very least, those who are going into Norwegian school today, who are going to create the working life we're going to live on. They're going to be able to deal with major changes in Norwegian working life, where we're going to move to a greener economy, where we're going to go to a greater degree of robotization and automation, and new technologies are going to be put into effect. We're going to enable them to meet the professional lives of the future, which none of us really know. It didn't get much space with the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister equally concerned with building skills of the very least she is when she talks about how important it is to build it in those who fall out of the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e304	I also said that there was an incredibly important commitment to early action, to making sure that children are equipped to cope with the future working life. It's incredibly important to do that. It is incredibly important that we achieve a better target than what we have done so far in Norwegian society, that young people are given the skills that enable them to cope with the labour market. Very many of the young people who become disabled because of mental problems have a combination of problems, both things that have happened in their lives, and also a school that has not been good enough to catch them up and be able to give them competence. That's why it's so important that we think about early work in terms of the work we do at school, which needs to be focused on an effort that reaches those who lag behind. It has been the government's clear and clear message. The second thing we have to do is take early action in childhood, which means that child protection, which causes mental health for children and young people, to a large extent, to be taken seriously. We have cooperated on that, and I hope we will work together on that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e311	I want to continue with the care allowance scheme. It's a very good arrangement we have, that parents with seriously ill children can get support to set up. There are two reasons why this is very good: it can give the best everyday life for seriously ill children, but it can also make it cheaper overall for society because parents get the opportunity to set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e316	And it's quite right, as the Prime Minister says, the blue-blue government has expanded the arrangement from the red-green government, but we don't have to let the red-green put the list for what's good enough. There are also limitations to this system that I think are problematic. I think, what is the business community asking for? Yes, they're asking for security and for safe havens. It's also the birthright of these vulnerable families. So my question is, Will the Prime Minister look at improvements?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e320	We are always open to look at improvements in arrangements. We've made a big improvement, which has included a lot more, which has made it easier. A lot of parents with nursing children felt that they could get help for a little while, and it was over, and then it was ‘on’ again. Now there's more predictability. There is more flexibility in the scheme. But it's a challenge when you've made a better system, for a lot more people – that you shouldn't have a time limit for how long it should last. For the care scheme is a temporary scheme, not a permanent scheme. The permanent arrangements in our aid system have been the aid system, which can help you hire someone to help you and the municipal system. That's why it's not without limits, what we can do, because what we can quickly lose is part of the other measures, and you want to point out that it's easier if your parents are home. Instead of adding to the help they need from the public, it comes instead of that help. It's actually not going to be an improvement, it's going to be a deterioration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e327	Yesterday, the class struggle brought new figures from the kindergarten sector. Two examples: Grenland Kindergarten drift AS, where owners had injected NOK 540 000 in 2006, sold in the summer of 206 million. kr – a capital return of 81 pst. every year. Children's sports garden AS, where the owners made 410 000 kroner in 2008, sold in summer for 160 million. kr – a capital return of 111 pst. Every year. Such returns do not exist elsewhere in the legal economy. It is necessary to engage in lukewarm activities in order to obtain an equivalent return on capital. Here comes all the money from government grants and parental payments. I wonder if Prime Minister Solberg believes that that kind of private profit on public funds and parental payment is compatible with ensuring the sustainability of well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e334	I think that the debate on private participation in welfare requires a slightly different perspective than the perspective that Red brings into it. First of all, all children receive the same type of social benefits in Norway, in relation to what it is like in the municipality, according to the operation of kindergartens. Then it is true that in some municipalities you have – before – a free space. In the process of building more kindergartens, there have been many relief measures to do so. You might have thought better about the regulation at the time you did it, who you thought it would happen, or something else, but it was a ‘drive’, an activity, to get enough kindergartens, and that, by means of these, has given us full kindergarten coverage. Then I am concerned that we need to have competition in some areas, also in order to get better quality. For example, when you have: called open-air children's gardens, there's some of what private people have contributed significantly more of, which means that we get more freedom of choice as parents when we're going to choose kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e341	So the line change is over. We go back to yesterday's list of speakers. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e350	It would be unimaginable for me who live in Ringerijk, not to mention the Ringeriksban when I stand on this pulpit for the first time. At Ringerijk, in Hallingdal and in Buskerud, we have great expectations that the government will follow up with planning tools and keep enough pressure on the state level work, so that we can start in 2021, as promised. As a result of the Ringeriks track, there is a expectation of population growth in the Ringeriks region. But honeycomb and Ring Kingdom can't be just a habitat. People must be able to work there too. I hope the government can adopt a more offensive attitude in order to take the region's natural advantage, the forest, into action. The forest can contribute to more green jobs through industrialisation, but it does not come naturally. The concept of ‘nutritional neutrality’ must be buried and the public must make good arrangements for the forest industry through, among other things. strengthening Investinor’s forest activity, strengthening the Eco-Technology Scheme in Innovation Norway and getting more research on soil and forest through the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy and the Research Council. Then I have to say something about the merger of Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud. In the change of line between the Right parliamentary leader, Trond Helleland, and the Labour Party parliamentary leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, yesterday Greece did not have an entirely correct view of how the district council in Buskerud has dealt with this matter. Buskerud was invited to conversations with Akershus and Østfold, but also had conversations with Vestfold and Telemark. After recording from the municipalities of Buskerud, the county council chose to continue with Akershus and Østfold. Then a merger agreement was negotiated, which was correctly agreed in Buskerud in 2016, but this agreement contained some assumptions. Helleland may not have brought it. The assumption was that new tasks would come to the regional level. This did not follow the government or the majority of the population, so Buskerud also said no to this agreement. There is no need to merge when you're not going to do anything other than what you're doing today. The county authorities may even have to lose tasks. I find it a pity that Helleland, who is also elected from Buskerud, has not found out why Buskerud says no to the Viking.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e363	We are in a changeable time, and one of the most important shifts is the so-called green shift. We are facing major changes where we are going to change from being a country that has mainly built its well-being on oil and gas to making new legs stand on. One of the legs must literally be the wooden leg – not because it is a handicap, on the contrary. The change we have to make should be based on what we're already doing, and where we already have the advantage. The forest is such a advantage. The census focused on productive business and highly educated workforce. Over the next 10 to 15 years, we need to create 5,000 to 10,000 new jobs each year. Then wood and forest industries are an important part of the solution, because it is good for employment and good for the climate. Paradoxically, one of the most important actors in the industry, Norwegian Forest, is in a time of destiny. In the worst case, bankruptcy would result in Norway losing a substantial part of the value chain within three. We can't allow that. Important skills will then be lost – skills we need, not just for paper production, but most in order to be able to further process the timber to a lot of other things. Because it's actually so that almost everything that can be produced out of a barrel of oil, can also be produced out of the tree tree in a climate friendly way. That's why the forest industry has to be lifted, and we have to move into the bioeconomy. A prerequisite for ensuring an overall value chain for the forest and the wood industry is to bring us the last step: the industry. This is done by ensuring predictable and good framework conditions, by facilitating roads that withstand the axle load of the timber cars, by allowing the use of the residual waste, for example. ash for fertilisers, which is currently banned on our side of the border, but which the Swedes use as a resource. For Norwegian Forest Saugbruges in Halden, one of the wooden industry's locomotives, it is amazing to note that they are not allowed to participate in the so-called CO 2 compensation scheme, which would give an increase in value of several tens of millions of dollars a year. The exemption from electricity tax would also be an important measure to strengthen the profitability of businesses, which in turn will contribute to increasing innovation capacity in one of the most climate-friendly businesses we have. The wood industry fights for life to create sustainable jobs. At the same time, the oil fund invests, as I'm familiar with, 22 billion. SEK in the forest industry in Sweden and Finland, but only 97 million. kr in Norway. Developing new products from existing production is much easier than starting from scratch. I hope we don't become a banana republic, a commodity supplier, while our neighboring country becomes a locomotive. I hope Stortinget will contribute to improving the framework conditions for forestry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e385	I have almost 17 years of experience behind the catheter, and along with thousands of other teachers, I have contributed to the education of children and young people. Today I might not have got a new job. Today, my education is no longer good enough, because the government has introduced a requirement that a minimum of 60 study credits are required to teach Norwegian and math in secondary school. That you've been teaching these subjects for 17 years or maybe more doesn't help. Our schools are screaming for qualified teachers, but the proportion of unskilled people has increased by almost 40 pst. in the last four years. In this situation, therefore, the government chooses to separate 33,000 experienced teachers instead of making sure that more people choose the profession. More and more teachers are opting out of the profession, while the government believes that the best thing is to chase even more people out of classrooms. Very many of our best teachers will be retired in a few years. Then the government's answer is to get rid of many of these teachers in advance, while we know that high-quality students do not get into the teacher's education. This makes no sense, because we know that the school, according to the SSB, will need 3,000 more teachers in the next few years. The training qualification granted retrospectively must be reversed. Therefore, SV promotes a proposal to scrap the separation of general teachers. Yesterday's throne debate gave me hope. Although education policy has gone wrong in the last four years, we received clear signals from the Christian People's Party Hans Fredrik Gruvan and the Workers' Party Martin Henriksen that they are willing to support, at least consider, the SV's proposal to abandon the new educational skills requirements. We already know that the Center Party supports this. These are good signals for Norwegian school and good signals for our teachers. There may be an exciting harvest in the Education Committee. We have a lot to do, but we can also do something. I am pleased to take up the important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e400	The Norwegian economy has stabilised after the dramatic oil price drop we experienced in 2014. The government has received recognition from many teams for the management of the oil crisis. First of all, thanks to the workforce and businesses that create new jobs, more people get a job, and the economy is growing. The space for action in the economy will be smaller when the revenue from oil and gas goes down. There is nothing growing into heaven, and our responsibility is to spend the tax money we have received from people, as much as possible. But we are not doing that today, because too much is being wasted in the public sector. Resource use varies, and the differences in results for the 10 largest municipalities in Norway are too large. There are too many tax bills that are thrown away in bad organization, it's too little new, and there's too much bureaucracy in the state and the municipalities. The response from the Workers' Party when the action space gets smaller is not news, but to pick up 15 billion. kr more of people's and businesses' savings. But increased taxes are like political laxity in a cheek egg. It postpones the necessary modernisation in the public sector, it contributes to less growth in the private sector, and initially it is a one-off measure. But it's just this last thing that's the play in the cheeky egg, because you never know what you're getting, either how much the taxes are going to be increased, or how many times they're going to be increased. One thing we can say for sure is that the voters didn't believe that the Workers' Party would stop at 15 billion. kr if they had been given the opportunity in the autumn. Increased public spending isn't always the answer, and we can't take more of people's money without knowing that the ones we're already taking are well managed. The work on getting rid of unnecessary bureaucracy is already in full swing. The red tape reform releases a total of 1.6 billion. kr every year that we can spend on more well-being for people. We get more left for less. Just look at the road company Nye Weier, who cuts costs by a total of 20 pst. on road development. This is just the beginning. We're going to digitize the public sector, we're going to find and eliminate time thieves, and we're going to continue to reduce unnecessary bureaucracy. The most important thing to take care of our welfare society is clearly that new, private jobs are created, but we also have a responsibility for the modernisation of the public sector. In the coming government period, we are also going to keep public money under control, because that is what we need to take care of our well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e411	The right and our cooperation parties have taken on the serious police analysis and the Gjørv Commission report and have launched the police reform. Societal development challenges the Norwegian police model, which has consisted of many small relief offices, which have made the police vulnerable and unable to deal with the new crime scene. 70 of the county offices in our country have had opening hours from zero to three days a week. This does not provide security and does not help to equip the police for the meeting with a changed crime scene. We see that organized crime is increasing, and it is often cross-border. Radicalisation and threats from militant Islamists are serious and becoming increasingly complex, and new technology and the Internet have provided criminals with opportunities. This applies not least to violence and abuse against children. The same technology has also provided the police with unique tools. They can take the office to the car, be online and search the registers themselves and conduct interrogations with sound and images on site. So now we're going from a police officer in the office to a police officer on wheels. In addition, response time demands have been introduced to the police, and it is tense. Then by 2020, we will ensure that we meet the requirement of at least two officials/women per thousand inhabitants, so that we strengthen the response time requirement. The government has also put particular emphasis on vulnerable groups in the field of justice. The establishment of 12 victim care offices in police houses is a very important measure. I have worked for several years as a family violence coordinator in Trøndelag and have very good experience with the support centre for insults in criminal matters, which these offices are modelled on. Here's a short way for crime victims to get help at the police house, and then they'll be dropped into the emergency room in a good way if they need it. We have also strengthened the State Children's House, which has been given a historic boost. Family violence coordinators are established in all police districts. The limitation requirement for violence and serious offences has been removed, and we have introduced a new penal code with much stricter penalties for, among other things. family violence. The near-police reform is already starting to show results. In the Værnes region of Trøndelag, patrols are more present in the evening, night and weekend now than when all the Länsmann offices took place. With this government, we get a police force armed with the challenges of the future – a police force that comes when we need them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e426	There has been little talk of foreign policy in the debate, therefore this article. I would like to mention the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, just before the elections, approved the resumption of exports of ammunition to the United Arab Emirates. In addition, Norway exports different defence materials to Saudi Arabia. Both of these countries are involved in the terrible war in Yemen, and they therefore need to buy more weapons and defence equipment. This is a weak political assessment of the government and probably contrary to Norwegian arms law. In the war in Yemen, a coalition of Gulfarabian states, led by Saudi Arabia, which supports the President of Yemen, is opposed to several armed groups. The intervention itself is not necessarily contrary to international law, but the war is very brutal, has led to thousands of deaths and injuries and is one of the worst humanitarian crises of the time, according to the UN. Nearly 70 pst. need emergency aid, of which 10 million children. There are gross violations of humanitarian law. Saudi Arabia and the coalition countries have also recently been placed on the so-called UN blacklist of countries and actors committing serious child abuse. SV has recently asked the U.D. for a guarantee that Norwegian weapons and defence equipment will not end up in the war. We don't get that. The only foreign minister can tell is that the U.D. has no information that Norway’s material has been used in Yemen. That's not good enough. As SV sees it, this is a breach of the intention in Norwegian weapons legislation. Norway is obliged to ensure that Norwegian-produced weapons are not used for violations of humanitarian law, not used for war crimes or for violating human rights. This guarantee is not given by the sitting government. Therefore, SV has submitted a proposal for a representative asking the government to stop all exports of arms and other defence equipment to the countries intervening in Yemen. We also ask that the government review Norwegian exports to these countries to check whether Norwegian-produced weapons have been used in warfare or for war crimes. Finally, instead of looking for opportunities for Norway to sell more weapons, the Minister of Foreign Affairs should avoid entanglement of Norway into this very bad company. Norwegian foreign policy shall contribute to peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e439	The proportion of people in work has fallen in recent years, and the differences are increasing. A few weeks ago, Svein Harald Øygard, former governor of Iceland, had a good and important post in the VG, where he describes the problem that a third of us in Norway are now out of work. In some parts of the country and in several of the municipalities it is now completely down towards 60 pst. who is at work. The hardest and most serious thing is that young people are affected by this development. Youth down to high school is now really concerned about whether they are going to get a job, and it turns out that their cause for concern is real. By the beginning of the 2000s, it was 75 pst. by our 17-year-olds who had summer work. Now only half get it, and it turns out there are kids from the richest families who put first in line there as well. This increase has a responsibility again to provide work for all and to reduce the differences that are now increasing. And note: This increase has a responsibility to work against policies that only provide temporary work and increase differences. This collapse has a responsibility to ensure that we build up and strengthen the best sides of our country, permanent positions that give distribution, and a welfare state that provides life, health and security for all regardless of the size of the wallet. On the positive side, we know that there are enough important tasks to do that will provide work: strengthening the industry, ensuring safe food production on our own resources, and, not least, ensuring better growth conditions for our kids, and learning to read, calculate and write properly. The elderly, who have built this country, will have proper care. Norway can do better than the social development we now see. It is our responsibility to once again provide optimism for more and a better future together.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e451	Digitalisation has been mentioned several times in the debate, and that is good. But one of the most elementary areas of all digitisation is the infrastructure to support services. Good digital infrastructure is as important as road, rail and electricity. The districts have the natural resources we're going to live on in the future. We need housing and equivalent services across the country. The aim of the Workers' Party is to implement a shift in the pace of the digitisation of the public sector. This will lead to better and more adapted services for citizens and ensure better use of resources. The aim is to provide a basis for both technological export companies and for the development of new services. In the years ahead, our ability to change will be tested. New green industries will be established. Technology and digitisation will be central to jobs in all sectors at all levels. Patients may, for example: Get faster and better help; our older ones can live a free and independent life longer. The development of digital infrastructure is mainly based on commercial profitability. Think of it being like that for electricity – then large parts of our country would have been darkened. The subsidy scheme introduced by the government four years ago is too small and too bureaucratic and cannot be used to improve mobile coverage. The previous scheme was more efficient and more predictable. When NTP was treated in the spring, we, together with the Senterpartiet, promoted a proposal for a change of pace in the work on essential digital infrastructure, an infrastructure plan and 500 million. kr every year for the next 10 years to expand broadband and mobile coverage where there is currently no commercial profitability. Unfortunately, this was not adopted. We don't want a digital class distinction. We want equal access to services and equal conditions for industrial development across the country. This will require a significant increase in efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e464	In meeting the ageing wave, climate change and a new working life, the Right is the clear goal of taking care of Norway as the world’s best country to live in. It's about creating more jobs and qualifying people for these jobs, because there's work that pays for well-being. The right, together with the Progress Party, the Left and Christian People's Party, has steered Norway safely through a demanding period of refugee crisis and the worst oil price fall of 30 years. Unemployment is now falling, growth is rising, and more people are coming to work. By creating and further developing the patient’s healthcare system, the Right will help people get back to work faster after illness and provide patients with much more predictability during the period of illness. Shorter health cows and cancer package runs show that we are doing well, but we are not in target. We have a right to user-driven personal assistance, BPA. It is now important that municipalities follow up, so that more people can make use of the possibility of BPA to get an almost normal daily life, and that municipalities are flexible in terms of how many hours the BPA user will be given a decision. As of today, for example. no decision dealing with the possibility of acting as a parent. For those with whom this applies, it is important to have as stable a relationship as possible at home, so that their children have as few assistants as possible to deal with. For some people, there aren't so many hours of BPA a week that's about making everyday life much easier. In fact, BPA can also make the difference between being at work and having a working day outside the workplace. This ageing period will extend the package sequence to those who are struggling with alcohol and psychiatry, and to fatigue diseases, pain, muscle and skeletal disorders. The right is not concerned about whether the service is private or public, but about whether the service is good for the inhabitants. Where private actors can contribute to more freedom of choice, lower costs and better quality, right-wing states yes to it. The most important thing is to have a job to do. Those who are outside the labour market for various reasons shall be ensured organisation and assistance. So, as far as possible, social security should be labour-oriented, and we should help people get into work. Making sure people have the right and up-to-date skills becomes one of the most important tasks in the future. No one should go out to date in Norway, and we should have a serious and inclusive working life. It is work that pays for the well-being we enjoy today, and if we are to preserve Norway as the world's best country to live in, we must create values to live on. That is why we need to create both the safe jobs we have and the right to create new ones. Therefore, the most important objective of this ageing period is precisely to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e483	It's great to be allowed to stand here today as a newly elected deposit representative. I would like to thank those who have done just that possible. In Rogaland, the Progress Party experienced progress from the previous elections. In Windfjord, the Advance Party went forward by 4 percentage points, and in Ølensvåg, a fantastic building where we have more jobs than residents, each fourth chose to vote at the Advance Party. After this party had been in government for four years, after four years with a finance minister from the Progress Party, after a period when the oil price did not only halve once, but quite twice, after an election campaign in which the misery description of society was carried out by the leading opposition parties on the Stortinget, the voters in Rogaland chose their party and their government and secured the country a steady course. That trust we shall show ourselves worthy and take this country safely further in the same direction. I have been given the great honour of being the leader of the Progress Party in the Energy and Environment Committee, a work that will be very exciting to grasp. The oil and gas industry is Norway’s most important industry and will continue for a long time. We're going to be very happy about that. Creating jobs is important and is prioritised by many. But a job is not just a job. In the oil and gas industries, value creation per employed is almost 15 times higher than in e.g. Travel life and almost 8 times higher than in industry. The oil industry is therefore no industry whatsoever, which is easy to replace with other industries, and it is the country's sovereign most important and most valuable industry. On the environment, Norwegian soil is well ahead, and in this context, it is important that we continue to facilitate the development of technology that ensures that we extract our resources in a cost-effective and environmentally good way. The world has an increasing energy demand, and then it is important that we continue with Norwegian oil and gas production, which has some of the lowest emissions in the world. And Norwegian gas is a significantly cleaner product than European coal power. It is therefore necessary to facilitate an industry in which it is to be attractive to work, an industry so attractive that the youth chooses to invest in petroleum-related education. That is why we need to facilitate activities in new areas; we need to support industry and provide good framework conditions. As a welfare nation, we can't afford not to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e494	Differences in Norway are increasing. The sickest have been punished with cuts after cuts while the champagne corks spread between the walls at Aker Brygge. The right-hand Party Government removes the scheme of white prescription. That means that many sick people now get an extra charge of several tolls of $1,000. An MS patient told me that she finally found the medicine that gave her more energy in her everyday life – she got it on white prescription. We should support and celebrate such progress, but instead the sitting government sends her an extra bill of NOK 30 000. At the same time, they have given the 1 600 richest in Norway 575 000 kroner each in tax cuts. Fire damage, cancer surgery and amputations were previously given free physical therapy to speed up rehabilitation, contribute, live a good life – regardless of the size of the wallet. The right-hand side decided to take away free physical therapy. Instead of prioritizing rehabilitation with a documented effect, the government has chosen to use the money on undocumented voodoo economy where a cut in the property tax will conjure up new jobs. However, in the competition for unsocial cuts in the health field, there is little to compete with government cuts in care for families with seriously ill children. Regardless of children’s medical needs and suffering, the government has decided that parents of serious chronically ill children will only receive care for a maximum of five years. That means that the mother who does everything in her power to improve the life of her multi-disabled son is now afraid to have to send her son away to the institution because the government chooses to take away her care money. The king said in the throne that the decisions in this hall shape society. It is our responsibility to ensure a strong welfare state with small differences and great opportunities for all. It's up to us that sick people are going to get their medications, and that the victims of the fire are going to get free physical therapy. And we are responsible in this room for ensuring that seriously ill children are not refused to have their parents at home. SV is ready to ensure a health service that takes care of everyone, regardless of the size of the wallet, and will ensure a Norway with small differences between people. Now it's up to the other games if they want to join.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e511	The Trontal tells us that we are facing challenges, but also great opportunities. Big fluctuations in the economy have challenged us. Our industry and our business must adapt to an oil price of about $50-$60 barrel. This requires something of us as politicians. It requires something from the business community, and not least it requires something from the individual who gets up and goes to work every day and has to learn new ways to meet the working day. It's through the centroid drawing visions about the digital shift. Digitalisation and changing market conditions require migration whether we are going to continue in existing markets or position ourselves for new ones. It requires something of our education system, of our social structure and how we live our lives. For this reason, in the previous period, this government is launching many reforms that point forward towards the new era, together with extensive infrastructure and health measures. And not least, there was a massive investment in research and development and innovation against the new industries that industry itself has been an important contributor to. We understand that more colors are required in the palette to measure the denomination of the throne. Well, if we listen to business itself, they're quite happy that we, as politicians, are keeping a steady course. They want robust frameworks to put in place long-term strategies and to invest. At the beginning of the previous ageing period, everyone is talking about the green shift. Now industry is delivering in line with the expectations that politicians have drawn up. We had the visions, business had the solutions. We demand and shared the toolbox at the same time, business is now delivering on measures. Norway has, among other things: was leading the world before maritime battery technology. The Austevolll-reiarlage North Sea Shipping can tell that the battery will become the main energy source in what becomes one of the world's largest construction vessels. Enova has been a decisive support player for the project. Asking what business needs is a road and a path. From a collection of Westland, a few free E39 will answer a question. Rogfast and Hordfast will be the most important trade action along our west coast. The project will support the competitiveness of business and secure our jobs. In fact, the government has taken advantage of the entire color palette to ensure a viable business. We'll have more of that, and it'll get us out more of the sitting government for rudders. We're going to do more of what we see works. Right will continue with the project we have started: We will continue to modernise and streamline Norway over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e530	I'm from Rogaland Oil County, and I'm born and raised at Tananger in the municipality of Sola, one of the birthplaces of the Norwegian oil adventure. I went to school about what a real estate agent would call a stone's throw away some of the country's largest headquarters and oil bases. Once you've grown up somewhere and in a municipality there 85 pst. of all jobs related to the oil and gas industry, and seeing what it does with a small community, I have to say that it has been both frustrating and surprising to follow the debate that has taken place on this industry in the election campaign. Norwegian oil and gas finance current research into renewable energy sources, as well as schools, hospitals, justice, defence, care for the elderly and everything else we nordics have in common. We're also going to bet on other profitable industries, and we're going to help everyone who wants to create jobs, but we're not going to get a green shift with a red bottom line. However, through the election campaign, there has been no lack of expensive election vows from parties who want to end the oil adventure. These lots have an explanation problem when they want to cut Norway’s main source of income without having a viable alternative. They need our policies to afford their own. The value added per person employed in the oil industry is as much as seven million. kr per year. The average of all other industries is NOK 830000. No matter how creative you do it, the result is clear. Norway is becoming a poorer country with less well-being and less prosperity without the oil industry. The oil and gas will not last forever, but Norway should be the very last country to turn off the lights as long as there is a demand. In its assessment of the Norwegian energy policy, the International Energy Agency writes: ‘Norway should continue its policy of developing oil and gas resources, both because the oil and gas sectors mean much economically, they are produced with relatively low emissions and they are important for Europe’s security of supply.’ Even in the 2-degree scenario, 70 million barrels of oil are needed every day. Where is this oil going to come from? If investment goes down in OECD countries, such as Norway, much more of the oil of the future will come from Russia, Saudi Arabia and Africa, and they have much higher emissions. This is the question of whether Norway or these countries are going to participate in this appreciation. Me and the Progress Party are clear on what we mean. The Johan Sverdrup field will be Norway's next gold mine. It can produce economically with an oil price of less than $20 the barrel and with only 5 pst. emissions compared to the oil industry globally. Then the entire debate will be with respect to reporting completely meaningless from a climate perspective. The debate on whether we are still going to have oil industry in Norway is going to be completely meaningless. The United Kingdom is the country in Europe that has cut emissions the most. They have done so because they have replaced polluting coal power with Norwegian gas. Closing the Norwegian pedestal as long as it is there and before it is empty for oil and gas will increase emissions and make Norway poorer. It's like tearing apart a Flax block when you've just scraped to the first prize.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e542	It's been 16 years since Norwegian school got its aha experience. In 2001, international comparisons showed that Norwegian students had weak basic skills. It was the start of a spin-off in school. Against some protests, the Right National Tests introduced, admission requirements for teacher training, clear learning objectives and a clear prioritisation of basic skills. Our conviction then – and our conviction now – is that there is knowledge in the school that gives the students the tools they need to succeed for the rest of their lives. Other parties have spent a lot of time discussing what students should do in school leave. We've done a lot to make sure that students learn more at school. It's very tempting to spend more resources on everything, but the Right should be uncompromising about prioritizing the content of the school. The most important thing has been the great effort on good teachers with professional weight. The government's teacher's vow will give – and it will give – results already. But we know, unfortunately, that still is a six-year-old boy who starts school, because depending on which school he goes to, which municipality he gets into, which sex he has, and not least how many books his parents have in the bookshelf. Too many students get hung up early in school. The result is that they fall from higher education and that social differences are reproduced. The right in Oslo School has shown that we can succeed in raising all students, regardless of the background, if we work specifically and start early. And now we're warning a big and new systematic bet on early efforts. We will train several thousand initial experts in intensive training for students who need extra help on the small step. We are going to reform special education and bet on language work in kindergarten. Good results do not come of their own. It is essential to have a consistent school policy over time. You have to create a culture for learning and prioritize what makes the students learn the most. And there's a difference between parties in this hall. It's e.g. Concerned when Arbeiderparti-steered municipalities such as Oslo remove mandatory screening tests, eliminate the requirement to prioritize basic skills and remove mandatory language mapping in kindergarten. Politicians who are not really able to prioritize knowledge when it counts risk creating a discrepancy school where coincidences determine what opportunities children have for the rest of their lives. For yes, some children come to the school bench with larger and heavier baggage from home than others, but a good knowledge school ability to lift the heavy bags from their shoulders and give them opportunities. Let there be no doubt: the right should be the guarantor of such a school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e563	On Monday's throne, the government described a Norway where our well-being is largely built through the attitudes of its citizens, or as the king said: "It is because of our attitudes, the trust we have in each other." This is difficult to disagree with – on the contrary. The question is, how have we achieved this confidence, and why are both it and our attitudes so special to the Nordic countries, especially to Norway? These attitudes exist in the form of culture. Culture is built over a long, long time, but is demolished incredibly quickly. Here I am at the point of my post. The legacy after four years with the Right Party and the Advance Party in government is that they are tearing down that trust and the attitudes they themselves boast of. That's what the government does by promoting a policy that reverses decisions that have been made in the past, and I'm going to give two examples that I think will destroy Norwegian working life as we've known it, if they work together over time. The introduction of more temporary work, combined with the removal of collective redress rights, will increase the uncertainty of workers and will also reduce both productivity and innovation in industry. Extensive use of manning agencies will accelerate this development. We have many work immigrants in Norway, and I have met many of them in my previous work in LO and in the campaign in Rogaland. There are great people and skilled workers that we need in the future, but many of them are pressured by unprofessional employers, and they are refused to organise themselves, with only an understaffed labour inspectorate to intervene. Many of those who have been unemployed during the recent crisis in the South of the West are now being brought back to the same employer, but with a much more loose relationship with the company from which they came. This is a development that leads to a situation in which serious employers are out of competition. We have seen this in particular in the construction industry, but we are also contacted by employees in companies in the oil and gas industry and other industries. I find no willingness on the part of the government to address this, and the Labour Party has proposed many measures in this area – which have been consistently voted down by the government parties. We have changed the parliamentary situation in the Grand Duchy, where a majority wants safe, permanent jobs and a good working life. Hopefully that will make our proposals effective, for the benefit of both the country and the population. The Labour Party will have security of work and safety for work – for Norway can do better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e581	The next speaker is Svein Roald Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e586	I have to wait, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e592	Svein Roald Hansen must wait. Then your next speaker is Freddy André Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e597	Many children and young people are exposed to care failure, abuse and violence. These are among the most vulnerable children in our society, and they are totally dependent on our help. They depend on adults around them who see them, and on a professional offer with skilled and competent educators and professionals. The children must meet with an offer of stability, predictability, professionalism and security. For many, child protection is the help they need. In child protection, many skilled firemen work first and sacrifice a lot. But what framework do we set for that work as elected representatives? Recently it has been revealed that millions of kroner are flowing out of Norwegian child protection and are going to build wealth for a few, instead of using the money as a whole to provide safety for the children. The total purchases from the country and municipality of child protection services in 2016 amounted to a total of 2.9 billion. kr. That's an increase of 24 pst. from 2013. Half of the 20 companies with the highest income last year are owned by five large groups with a total turnover of 3,2 billion. kr. It has been found that four of the groups are controlled by foreign investment and buying-in funds. Commercial actors have taken over an increasingly large part of the service through the child protection tendering regime. It is a paradox that commercial companies are taking a growing place in vulnerable children's lives: children with life situations that require tailoring. There is a fundamental difference between services purchased as a private individual and welfare services. A child who is subject to failure of follow-up due to a lack of or lack of competent staff does not achieve the same effect of complaining about the service that can be done in other parts of his life. Child protection is not suitable for market resolution in line with hotel operations. The inclusive principle of the welfare state differs from the exclusive principle of the market. That is why I am promoting a number of proposals for a representative to ensure the protection of children. The bidding regime needs to change so that quality, competence and staffing always go first, where ideal actors get a strengthened position at the expense of commercial ones, and we need to change the law, so that the community's money as a whole is going to improve the supply of children and not to private enrichment. I hope that more people join our proposal and choose care before placing on the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e614	Some children and young people in Norway are not doing well. We shall no longer escape this building than any stone throw until we are in Greenland, an area in Oslo where recent analyses show that 60 pst. children grow up in poverty. Children living there have school results that are among the weakest in Oslo. Throughout the summer and autumn, newspapers have told stories about violence and threats in some secondary schools in Oslo. Violence in some schools is about exclusion and social differences. These are challenges that also apply elsewhere in the country. We need a clear strategy to ensure that children and young people succeed in school and qualify for work. If you join the labour market, you will usually be able to support yourself and your family and avoid poverty. Having a job and having your own income is therefore essential for you to be able to live the life you want. Therefore, the Oslo City Council has introduced free core time in kindergarten, free activity school and employed more teachers at the lower age schools. That's how we get a greater chance to follow up the school that's struggling. We qualify the students for their own future. Everyone should have the same opportunity to live different lives, no matter where in the country you live. The place we live on is important to all of us. It means something to what kind of neighborhood we grow up in, that we feel safe where we live. Recent research suggests that growing up in an area with many neighbourhoods with poor living conditions can reduce life expectancy. So exposed neighbourhoods can contribute to the reproduction of social inequality. The Labour Party believes that, together with the early-action measures that I have already mentioned, we must have an additional effort as an area-lift in vulnerable neighbourhoods. We have contributed to this both in the Groruddalen and Oslo south. In the election campaign, the government councils of Oslo South, obviously to show that they are taking the city's challenges seriously. But that's tomorrow. Then we'll see if it was just nice words, or if the government is now showing power in the neighborhood that needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e627	The most important thing for Norway must be the policy. Norway should be a country with small differences and great opportunities for all. It's important because it's fair, and it's solidarity. Every person who lives in our country should be able to be who they want, do what they want, and become what they want. There is a lot that is good in Norway, but we also have a lot to deal with. We live in a country where the most common cause of death among young boys is suicide. We live in a country where twice as many women as men are hot when they express their opinions and participate in the social debate. We live in a country where children and young people with immigrant parents do not feel Norwegian enough for Norway, nor do they feel at home in their parents' immigrant communities. We live in a country where too many young people are neither in work nor in education. Norway is not at its best when people are discriminated against for who they are. Norway is not at its best when people fall outside. In June last year, the government presented an action plan for lesbians, gays, biphiles, trans-persons and inter-gendering. It is a pity that the government has made a small obligating plan with weak instruments, little willingness to implement and little money. Norway can do better. Norway is not at its best when people are threatened, hoarded and frightened from expressing their opinions and participating in the social debate, where young women participating in the social debate are exposed to serious threats and people with a migrant background are raised. Unfortunately, the government has no willingness to do anything about it. It cannot be that people dare not express their opinions or participate in the social debate because they are afraid, afraid of what happens if they participate in democracy. It can't be like that in Norway. Norway is at its best when it is a country with small differences and great opportunities. Norway does not improve when differences increase, when trust between people is weakened, or when distance increases. That's why the Labour Party will continue to do what we've been doing for 130 years over the next four years. We're going to make the differences smaller and the trust larger. This is how we create Norway at its best – a country where everyone is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e640	It is good to know that Norway is perceived as a safe and good country to live in. A total of 94 pst. of the population feels that their vicinity is safe to travel to. Over 80 pst. has a very or quite high level of trust in the police. Several key targets for police service production have shown positive developments in recent years, and this is happening at the same time as the sector is undergoing a very extensive process of conversion. As former spokespersons, I have been able to follow closely the work of the near-police reform in the West Police District. Based on my experience, I have only a positive say about that work so far: good and effective follow-up, close dialogue and a sincere desire to create the close police that is agreed upon by Stortinget. There is a mutual understanding and respect for one’s dependence on close cooperation between municipalities and the police to address key societal challenges in the future. One is far from the goal of the reform, but I look with optimism at the further work. As an example of how important this cross-cutting cooperation is, I will draw up a case from my own home country. The municipalities and health services in Sogn and Fjordane have been able to establish a joint attack facility where both power in close relations and SO matters is taken care of. The establishment has resulted in a significant increase in the number of cases, not least the number of cases reported to the police. The theme is still taboo, and the darkness valley is unfortunately big. Therefore, this increment must be considered positive. Human beings in very vulnerable and critical situations have turned around. The security provided by a professional and professional healthcare professional in close cooperation with the police and the judiciary makes the threshold for making contact lower. No one should have to fear their closest. Powers and tricks from close family members are a huge burden on that debt, and on society. Powered in close relationships is a social problem, it's not a private matter. Everyone in such a situation shall have the right to be confident that this is something on which the public is competent and serious. To solve demanding societal challenges, each department is required to be good in its field and always have the ability to work across and see health. The policy of the right takes up that idea, and it makes me sure that people will also in the future experience Norway as a careful, safe and good country to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e657	For the Right, district policy is about creating the best possible basis for growth and value creation across the country, to facilitate communities with creativity and growth potential. Is there one thing we know, is that our society is changing continuously, whether we politicians like the changes or not. Contradicting changes does not lead to our society remaining the way it is today. This only means that our ability to adapt to the changes is reduced – not to say our ability to exploit them to the positive. In many debates this autumn, it has been possible to get the impression that the most district friendly one can do in Norway is not wanting to change anything. I strongly disagree with that. Unlike the Central Party, I do not think it is that modernisation and development are urban policies, while standstill is district policy. No, I believe on the contrary that the ability and willingness to convert are the prerequisites for success in district policy. It's good district policy when we replace rentals for an empty canopy office with operational police out there among people. It's good district policy when we tie town and country together by investing more in road and rail than someone has done before us. It is good district policy when we take the side of local democracy in most cases where there is opposition to local plans. Yes, it is good district policy when we build stronger district municipalities with professional environments in which it is attractive to apply for a job and which provide better services to the inhabitants. Developments in recent years have shown the success of district policy under bourgeois rule. The availability is low in all districts. In Hedmark, Oppland, Nord-Trøndelag, Nordland and Troms, it has not been lower since the financial crisis in 2008. The income development of the farmers has been strengthened, and fewer farms are being set aside than the last centurion put in government. Police response time has increased, and the percentage of information has increased. The profitability of business is better. Travel life has had record growth three years in a row. 2016 was the best year in forestry since 1989. District policy is not about questioning yesterday's solutions and structures; it's about seeing the opportunities. The main challenge for districts is large distances. That is why we are putting time into action in the field of transport. It means new opportunities in District Norway when the distances between people are reduced and goods and services arrive more quickly at their destination. It means new opportunities when we cut taxes and costs for small and medium-sized enterprises. I believe that this is a much more offensive policy — and indeed a much better district policy — than to oppose all changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e672	We are elected by the people to rule the country for the next four years. The people have given us a vote of confidence so that this House will secure a still good and inclusive democracy, which will facilitate the creation and development of values that will give our generation and future generations a society that is good to live and grow up in. Our democracy is built on the elected levels of municipality, state and greatness, and it is important that these three levels play well together. This depends on trust between the three levels. In the last period, this trust has been tested. With a motivation that everything should become as much better with large municipalities and counties, the municipal minister and the government set up work to gather the municipalities as little as possible and the county municipalities to about ten. The centre party is not against mergers, but we are against coercion, especially when the goal is – and the purpose of the merger has been – so inexhaustible and varied as the arguments have been changed in the course of time. Now, the Centre Party has proposed to abolish coercion, where municipalities and states do not want the construction they are imposed on. In my county, Uppland, there were no municipal conspiracies, nor in Hedmark County. This is a lot because people said no in referendums, and the local government followed this. This is democracy. The people have spoken, and one who is elected to the people is the servant of the people, and listens to the people. I have to agree with the representative Gahr Støre, who yesterday called the regional reform a 'power plant'. It is difficult to see that a country far larger than Denmark in terms of area should do so much better than today's Hedmark and Uppland. Thirty million. kr has been paid to the two counties to cover the costs of aggregation. This is 10 million. kr more than municipalities within the wolf's son were given to accept the decisions of the government and the majority of the wolves in the last year. Throwing zillion pieces to the people to accept being translated, tried and run over is not a good way to drive a democracy. In any case, this is not the Central Party's way of doing it. The centre party has faith in the whole country, so we want to build up the elected levels with respect for the fact that it is in municipalities and state one knows best how to work for its inhabitants. It is based on these clear wishes that one must accept more tasks and more responsibilities, but when the state will not give up more than that the dictator will be allowed to do through people, this becomes a meaningless and untrustworthy reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e685	Many have debated how we lay the foundation for a sustainable welfare society in the next four years, but what really makes a state sustainable? We have to leave the ladder to those who come after us. In order to ensure a welfare state for our children and grandchildren who are in better condition, we need to bet on the welfare state, not build it down. We need to bet on the quality of kindergarten, with enough adults with the right skills. Early work starts in kindergarten, in the health centre and in pregnancy. We need more teachers in school. When the children get a good start, they have a bigger basis for succeeding later in life. If you succeed in school, the chance of success in the workplace is great. What is perhaps the least sustainable in today's society is the great drop-out in Norwegian school. One in four does not complete secondary education. The figures are disastrous; for the professions, the numbers are even darker. In the future, the space for action will be smaller. A more moderate use of oil money is essential for a sustainable welfare country. We need innovation in the public sector that benefits the next generation. Ran of people's savings pension is not innovation, private enrichment in child protection is not innovation – Norway can do better. Now we have to spend the community's money on the services that equip us for the future. We need to invest in school and health to strengthen the welfare state. Unfortunately, the government has voted in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal for physical activity in school, a single school meal, knowledge of mental health in school and a school health service where nurses are always available. Investment in our kids yields better returns than tax credits to those who have the most already. A sustainable welfare state is about leaving the ladder to those who come after us. The right-wing parliamentary leader draws an artificial distinction between those living in the state budget and those delivering to the income side of the state budget. Is it true that the children of public kindergartens live on the state budget, while the owners of private kindergartens with a million-dollar dividend are suppliers to the budget? Is it to invest in the future of children a cost, while large transfers right from the government budget to the owners' bank account are to be regarded as income? It would have been useful if the Right could pick up the calculator and figure out what's most sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e702	Change is often unpopular. This has shown, not least, the political debate on the changes in the police. Right then, it's important to remember why we're doing what we're doing now. On 22 July 2011, there were major weaknesses and major failures in Police and Preparedness Norway. The traffickers that looked pretty this day, and the subsequent Gjørv Commission showed us that the Norwegian police did not have the test, and that we were not well enough prepared for such an event. Helicopter readiness, boating, what operational crews should do, and not least major problems with management culture and responsibilities powdering. The Norwegian police and Norway were not well enough prepared to be able to take care of the citizens’ safety at the time, and not to make changes in Police Norway was therefore not an alternative. This is a perspective which, unfortunately, is often forgotten when we are today taking the debate on the changes that have been made to lift the police and lift operational preparedness. This work started through the Police Analysis, which the previous government ordered, but which this government has largely implemented. Our most important job as elected managers is to ensure the safety of the inhabitants. We've been experiencing terrorist attacks in many of the European cities that we're used to seeing as our own homes in the last few years. Terror has gone from being something that happened far away from us, to knock at our own door. We therefore need to ensure that the police, security services and other relevant agencies have the resources they need to be able to prevent adverse events, but also to safeguard people’s security if anything happens. This is also about the armed forces. It may seem from several of the opponents of general weaponry that the police are supposed to carry weapons because it looks cool, but that's not what this is all about. This is about enabling the police to protect the citizens if anything happens. We are living in a threat situation where PST says that terrorist attacks in Norway are likely. We live in a situation where some of our neighbouring countries have experienced terrorist attacks in recent times. We have also seen attempts at terrorism in Norway. Then it is a cross of thought that even at the country's largest hub, Oslo airport Gardermoen, the Stortinget has not allowed the police to carry weapons in case anything should happen, despite the fact that airports have been terrorist targets in several European countries. Closing your eyes because the world around us has changed is a dangerous way to go. The government has done a lot in the field to increase preparedness: three new police helicopters have been ordered, the PST and other agencies have been strengthened, 63 police cars are being rolled out this fall, and we have seen that half of those who are graduated from the Police College this year have already got a job. The police reform is now beginning to produce results. Today, we are better placed to safeguard the security of the Norwegian people than we were a few years ago. But this is a continuous job, and it's far from above.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e717	‘We are privileged to grow up, work, have children and grow old in Norway’, said His Majesty in the Common Era. We should never forget this. ‘Eight years with a civil government will change Norwegian society in a number of areas’, wrote Madssen in LO-Actuelt immediately after the elections. He also wrote: ‘The Community and regional reform and police reform will continue. The taxes on wealth are further reduced. It will continue to be a general access to temporary employment.’;» Yes, changes will be made, and the election results showed that my people's reforms and changes are still necessary. The government has taken responsibility and started these necessary reforms – changes: yes, but a cold society: no. Right will take care of Norway as the world's best country to live in. We value the individual, and we have faith that each and every one of us can create his own, happy life if one gets the opportunity to do so. One of our top priorities in the government has been to improve the care of drug users. We have increased treatment capacity, waiting time has fallen, and we have made it possible for addicts themselves to choose where they want treatment. But we're not in any way in goal, we're forced to think new, and we need to do more to help, not punish. For this reason, we in the Right believe that criminal law should change at this point. In the Right we also value being different, and we want to fight against outreach. We have faith in a strong, but limited state that actually gives room for lack and that sets limits on what is policy. The public will never be able to replace, and should never replace, the personal and social responsibility that we all have as fellow humans. Being different isn't negative, it's positive, and many people are healthy. In the Right, we also value work, both to smooth out differences and to be able to pay for well-being. We understand that the necessary conversion costs and that good intentions must also be financed. Norway needs a state that facilitates a modern, changing business, that gives our country a competitive advantage, and that guarantees sustainable well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e739	I am incredibly proud that the voters have given renewed confidence to the Advancement Party and the non-socialist parties. With that, I want to say a thousand thanks to all those at home who used our fantastic vote. The voters were very clear that they did not want 15 billion. kr in tax increase, they would not have a reintroduction of e.g. the inheritance fee. This means that the voters are satisfied that we run the country in a safe and sound manner. The Progress Party and the Right with cooperation parties have delivered in a number of areas, including: we can point out that we have just removed the inheritance tax. The fact that we have reduced the curtailment for pensioners has meant a lot to them. Not least, we have reduced health cows, precisely because we have thought new, we have opened up free user choice, and not least we have also released private operators – and competition believes the Progress Party is healthy. I am also very proud that we have a government that recognises Norway's main industry, namely oil and gas. I know that, I'm from Hordaland and know how many jobs and well-being crowns are created in this industry. So I think it's incredibly fun that we have ministers who are so clear about the importance of this industry – that it will play an important role in the future as well. Of course, in my home country, we greatly appreciate the fact that we have a Minister of Transport who has delivered on E39, which is incredibly important to a coastal man like myself and many others – the fact that we have transport projects that facilitate a good social economy, but also that we can create values in the district, that people can get to and from a simple way. Last, but not least, I have to say that I am looking forward to the role of big business representative and getting the opportunity to be an ombudswoman, not least for all those kids and young people out there who need a voice on the thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e753	Along the entire Norwegian coast we find the same story: the sea provides people with food and work. From fjord to table, there's an unbreakable bond. In North Norway, we have always lived by the sea, which for generations has given us great values – and that gives us great values. Yes, there's even a lot of money in your pocket for the kids who cut cod tongues. At restaurants and in the many homes around the world, 37 million meals are eaten every day with Norwegian seafood. Think about it: every day, all over the world. The income from seafood is what will very much give us well-being in the future. If the fisheries policy is to have legitimacy, it must also have people along the coast as heirs. The coast did not warm up as this government, which is now weaker than ever, wanted to remove the obligation of the trawls. They became what we in Northern Norwegian call 'lightings'. The coast resisted, put its foot down, the government had to draw the matter. For the fish belong to the community and shall create workplaces along the coast and lights in the houses. We have to think people and society first, strengthen the bond between sea and land – don't break it. We need to think about ring-effects and workplaces, young people who cut heavy, adults who fillet, salts, cargoes and unloading – policies to use more of the fish, policies to use more of the species of the sea. The cod was our first large export product. Still seafood is it. There is a line from Viking trade in Europe to Polar Algae in Hammerfest, which uses seaweed for animal feed, cosmetics and medicine. A few weeks ago, I was a jury member in a cooking contest in Tromsø. The theme was future food, and the ingredients were rooster biscuits and sugar pliers. Rouchs are used today as cleansing fish against salmonids, for those who cheated. In the Sea Book Morten Ströksnes writes that getting a bite is “the feeling that almost anything can come up from the depths”. It's not safe for us to eat rogues in the future, but we need research and innovation, new ideas and ideas. We need a marine value creation program. We need to use our knowledge and history to fish for new sustainable opportunities in the sea, but also to ensure that it benefits the coastal community. For the fish to return as much as possible to the communities, the starting point must be that we own the fish together.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e772	In my post yesterday, I described why climate change worries me. Another development that has made me worried — after observing Norwegian administration over time, after countless journeys around the country — is the development, breakdown and degradation of nature. It's just this that has led to the disappearance of about half of the world's animal populations in 40 years. The picture is the same in Norway. Around one-fifth of all species evaluated are now listed in red here. In the languages of the throne, it was beautiful: ‘The government will ensure that the society we deliver to our children is in even better condition than what we acquired from our parents.’ Does this not also apply to nature? Short-term land disposals cause people's activities to feed into Norwegian nature at a frightening pace. It's the liberal extender of the sitting government that's behind this. They have taken dangerous action in their four-year period. Very quickly, they transferred the plan department from the then Ministry of the Environment, and thus the handling of objections, to the Ministry of Local Affairs, and a valid circular was sent from the Minister of the Environment to, among others. the county to raise fewer objections at different levels. In popular language it means fewer concerns, warnings or references to breaches of laws and regulations. This was also one of the Prime Minister's mantras at the government change in 2013. It is becoming more and more open to development, while the scientific assessments come in second or last series. I have seen many examples of what this has led to, not least in my state, in Buskerud. I'm going to promise more government councils to come back to that. But the list of government's wretched nature conservation is long. They have stopped the plans for national parks in the north and several of the last watercourses are regulated. Yes, the Energy Communication even opened up the possibility of concession treatment of protected watercourses in special cases. The size has determined that 10 pst. the forest shall be protected. That's good. It will take an incredibly long time with the government's protection rate and a slow pace in the budgets. At the same time, the government has once again given the opportunity to subsidize forest roads into the few pockets of wilderness that we have left. These areas have been protected by themselves because of their inaccessibility. Now they're really going to take these as well. When the County Environmental Protection Expertise is cut and many municipalities have poor natural expertise, nature will become the loser. I'm adding: it's a planned and wanted policy from the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e792	In a line exchange yesterday, I was criticized for commenting on the speech of the throne in the persuasion debate. But since the criticism came from a right-wing representative, I intend to continue to comment and debate the speech of the throne in the debate. The government correctly points out in its throne that more people have to work because work is the ability of individuals to increase their income and wealth. But – and I think the government agrees – more people have to work for many more reasons than the individual getting better. We know that we have to keep employment up in order to carry state finances at a time when oil revenues are decreasing. We need to maintain employment in order to reduce the differences between peoples, so that we maintain the growth power of the economy and avoid unrest and polarization as in many other countries. In particular, my own age group, men under the age of 35, has a negative development in the labour market. More and more young men are standing without a job. The working party will propose a number of measures to increase the number of jobs during this large-scale period. Some measures will take a long time before they affect employment. We want 3,000 more teachers in school. The early effort that teachers are going to make will take a long time to repay in dollars and cents, but it's worth the money. Our children's prospects are the best investment we can make. We will also propose during this ageing period that practical skills be given more emphasis in primary school. Several will then experience mastery they sorely lack in today's theory-tongue school. The Workers' Party will also propose to strengthen the professions. We need better and more up-to-date equipment in schools, and professional teachers need to be involved. Not least there must be learning places at the other end, and there we have already moved on to submit suggestions. It is not to be excluded that exclusion and low employment, especially in young men, are also linked to the situation in the labour market. In Norway, we have a largely well-regulated and safe working life, although changes in the laws of the previous ageing period have taken us in the wrong direction. A safe working life is the bottom line of a high-employment economy. Combined with good trade union workers and an active industrial policy, we can do as our neighbouring country and increase the proportion of people working. The government's throne speech was free of politics, visions and instruments. The Labour Party is prepared to provide policy solutions for early action, better vocational training, more in work and smaller differences, and we will of course seek to make our policies more effective in the forthcoming ageing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e811	I would like to add a few words to a support scheme that often creates a lot of debate, namely the cash support. The Cash Aid Act states that the purpose of the cash support is to contribute to: that families have more time to take care of their own children providing families with a genuine freedom of choice as regards the form of care for children; there is a greater similarity between the transfers received by each family for childcare from the State, regardless of how supervision is organised; We also see that professionals are increasingly being notified that they are concerned about the development of all one-year-olds starting in kindergarten as soon as possible. One-year-olds are different, and there is a great deal about development and association, in this period of young children's lives. It is therefore not that the same solution will be best for all children. For the Christian People's Party, it is therefore essential that each family be given freedom of choice to assess what is best for their one-year-olds and for the family as a whole. The cash support allows more than the best people to get some extra months at home with their one-year-old. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that freedom of choice for families with children applies to all families, and we fight for the best of all children, regardless of the size of the parent's savings account, or what is the parent's background and history. Therefore, the Christian People's Party was very critical of the government's proposal just before the summer to amend the Cash Support Act, so that five years of living requirements were introduced to receive cash support. This requirement was linked not only to the recipient but also to the other parent of the child if they live together. The Christian People's Party voted against this law and made an alternative proposal on compulsory language training for those who need it and who have shorter residence time than three years. This is linked to the fact that good language control is a crucial qualification for participation in Norwegian work. The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen this competence for those who need it, instead of depriving a group of young children's parents of freedom of choice and the possibility of assessing what is the best form of care for each year's age. Unfortunately, our proposal was defeated, and the government's legislative change was given a majority. The negative consequences of this for many families with young children are already noticed. In particular, we receive feedback that cash support applicants who have been members of the people's pension scheme throughout their lives experience very unfairly that with the government's new rules, they now do not receive cash support because they are married to someone who has a shorter residence than five years. That's why this is something that the Christian People's Party will take up here on Stortinget, because we're still going to use the opportunity to raise families and children's best in politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e836	On 8 June 2017, the Stortinget adopted new regions in Norway. The map has been redrawn, with no majority. The content was not in place in the regions and is not yet. But it was important to push this through in order to show that the regional reform was not a flop. For us in Finnmark, it's not a flop, but a new example that the authorities in the south don't know their own country. Joining Troms and Finnmark has happened against the wishes of the Finnmarks. Finnmark filling is against, but it is not taken into account. Finnmark is Norway’s largest country, with very large distance disadvantages. Merged with Troms, they'll naturally increase, not slow down. One of the mouths of this reform is that it will give us so many new opportunities. There's hardly anyone who believes in it. During the first four years of the Right-Fremskritsparti-government, Finnmark has experienced a large-scale centralisation of skilled jobs and management functions have moved out of Finnmark. This concerns the State Road Administration, the Food Authority, the Fisheries Directorate and the Coastal Agency. The tax haven has had full release to make it more efficient, and that's what they've done for good. None of those floors have filled any new jobs. It's been full release, and that means Finnmark's coming out badly. We are not asking to live on the state budget, which Greece commented on in its statement. We are positive contributors to the state budget to sustain – through oil and gas off our coast and through fishing resources caught outside and landed in Finnmark. In addition, Finnmark’s area is governed by the Finnmark Act and is limited by Finnmark’s area given to the Finnmarks. This is a complicating element that no responsible politician answers how to solve. We have experienced that the University of Finnmark was merged with the University of Tromsø with a promise to have local management. It just went on for a few years, and it was over. We're not surprised. We've experienced before that our northernmost state is dominated. What does that lead to? The answer is simple. It leads to abstinence, and a people who feel abstinence doesn't bring anything good with them. Discouragement gives passivity and reluctance. Force leads to resistance, not development. This is elementary knowledge, but it doesn't seem like the government has taken it in. The working party is against coercion, and I am proud of that. The regional reform is characterised by coercion, indifference and lack of knowledge about geographical conditions. It's tragic.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e857	2017 is the year when plastic and marine litter came on everyone's lips. The discovery of a stranded whale with thirty plastic bags in its stomach became a theme in kindergartens and in old people's associations, in castles and municipal councils. This attention led to a record collection of plastic along our beaches in our spring. The popular side of the case is often about visual plastic scrubbing, and it is important enough, but at a more general level the year 2017 is also the year when the government promoted a magnificence message where the strategy against marine scrubbing and spreading microplastics was an important part of the content. The EU Commission has launched an open consultation on the effectiveness of microplastics — otherwise with a deadline of next week. A report with conclusions and recommendations will be available by the end of the year. It seems that my field of work over the next four years will be healthy. Although I would like to participate in beach cleaning at the ‘mi secret beach’ in Vestfold — and also elsewhere — I would like to pay special attention at this time to the medical impact of plastic waste disposal. These are nanoplastics, particles that are so small that they can pass cell membranes. The medical question is, how does plastic affect our marine organisms, and how does this affect our health again? Plastic contains a number of organic pollutants, a small cozy cocktail of PCBs, PAH, pesticides, phthalate, brominated flame retardants and bisphenol, to name a few. Many of the substances in plastics are endocrine disrupting, can reduce fertility and affect important body functions, such as: temperature control and immune functions. The health consequences of plastic removal on humans are far too little known, but what is certain is that what affects animal life negatively, usually also has the same effect on humans. And animal research in this field is unambiguous and frightening. In other words, we can face an unexpected medical disaster. Of course, I am very pleased with the Left's proposal to ban microplastics in body care products, which were given a majority in this room. Now we're going to include this in what I could call "Elvestuen Version 2.0". Plastic bag tax, a word that has almost become a pyre in the Norwegian press, is now being introduced in many societies significantly less developed than ours. I am pleased to note that the trade industry is now in the process of doing so in Norway. We need to increase the bottle pan and introduce several pledge and return arrangements for packaging. We need to develop Nordic cooperation on mortgages. For many reasons we must stop new installations with rubber cullet on artificial grass tracks. The free supply of plastics to environmental stations after cleaning should be a matter of course, and Norway must contribute even more than today with its maritime competence to collect waste from the seas. From my field of work, we must first of all research more and intensively into the toxic effect of nanoplastics on the human organism – simply because we have to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e874	The integration policy in Norway shall be based on Norwegian values and fundamental human rights. While immigration makes us a more diverse nation, we also see challenges, but we must not forget the cultural enrichment that immigration gives us. It concerns culture in the field of food and music. The challenge is to get work started. Work is the starting point for participation in society and better living conditions, and it is worrying that Nav figures show that the unemployment rate among first-generation immigrants is three times higher than that of the population. It is also frightening that only six out of ten immigrants who have completed an introduction programme – usually over two years – go to work. We cannot in the long term have a society where a large proportion of newcomers stay out of work and become totally dependent on social security benefits to live. We know that a negative social inheritance is a very heavy should bear. It is difficult for young people to get out of a culture where their parents are not at work, do not participate in society and have failing Norwegian skills. It is simply a trap of poverty. It gives an outsider, and we see in particular that guys with immigrant backgrounds drop out of high school and ports in Nav statistics or go walking and drive and get into gangs. The government has taken some important steps. Among other things, there is an effective integration policy in the Single European Act, which deals with many measures, including: their own integration reception facilities for those who have been accommodated and for those who are believed to have a high probability of staying. But we have a job to do. Municipalities, local businesses and Nav need to cooperate much more closely with the receptions and newcomers, so that they get to work more quickly, preferably through job-oriented measures in cooperation with local employers. The introduction programme needs to be much more flexible, individualised and adapted so that it actually uses its skills. The drama is a municipality that was also mentioned from the pulpit here yesterday, which has received a lot of praise for its integration and inclusion work in kindergartens and schools. It is with pride that I can say that my home town was first out with free core time in kindergarten for children of low-income families. But the scheme also brought with it the obligation of activity for the parents, including. participation in Norwegian courses. Then it is quite encouraging that the Workers' Party – which was furious yesterday because women did not get into work – voted against the obligation of activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e893	The challenges in our society are moving ever closer. The number of older shoots. It's a matter of urgency to achieve the Storting's goal of ejection. The part of the adults in the job is falling. For a long time we have been able to say in Norway that we do not live on oil, we live on work – each other's work. After four years with the Right and the Advance Party in government, this is less true than before. The government party was very tall in their hats when they took over in 2013. They have chattered with what they called red-green overwhelm policy and promised expensive and sacred to show ability to prioritize. But then didn't happen. This government has seen record in over-wage and oil money use, shattered the piggy piggy and prioritised policies that do not work. The next four years can't be like the last four. There is now a serious government being tested. In the future, we're going to solve larger tasks with less money. It is said from the pulpit in this debate, like the right-wing party, that the voters have spoken. That's right. As a result, the bourgeois parties are weaker than before, and the red-green side has strengthened. There is now another majority in Stortinget and a government that is actually in a minority. Then it's both our privilege and our duty as opposition to the voters to establish new pluralities when possible. The possibilities will continue to be used by the Labour Party, within the scope of action that can be found in each state budget. For the Workers' Party is a responsible party. We have for four years submitted alternative budgets with strict discipline, with a coverage of one proposal and one penny each, and so we will continue. Our line of opposition is just that: responsible and constructive. But she also gets critical. We will not treat the government with silk gloves in the future. Today, Erna Solberg marks it with the birth quota and will also see that the majority of the population can choose a different policy from that of the government, because the majority in Stortinget is no longer on the right of the Right. With a heavy plurality in Stortinget, I understand that the government is concerned about whether she can implement her policy. But the government can owe itself. Many of the similarities from the previous period, such as the police reform, are managed in a very poor way. Nevertheless, the Labour Party should be involved in conciliation where it is natural, because few parties have such a romantic relationship with compromise and conciliation as we have. But one will notice that in the future we will make tougher demands to be with, and unlike must reflect the real plurality of the Stortinget, not on the right side of their premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e908	Initially, I would like to congratulate all the representatives and not least the presidency with the elections. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the voters in Finnmark for the trust they have given me. It is historic that the smallest party in a minority government delivers as well as the Progress Party has done. It has been marked by the voters, and they are satisfied with what the Progress Party has provided: lower taxes and taxes, historical road and rail investment, a strict immigration policy and not least a safe and predictable economic governance of the country. We've run the country safely, and we're going to keep doing that. I've been so lucky to have a place in the Transport and Communications Committee, and it's an area that's important to all states, not least to my own home country, Finnmark. We are now experiencing a historical bet on NTP, a bet that will be exciting to join in and follow up. Good infrastructure and communication are important for exploiting the potential of Finnmark – for Finnmark, opportunities are at stake. Good infrastructure and communication are important to ensure and safeguard the established industries and jobs in Finnland and, above all, to facilitate new industries and jobs in the northernmost countries of the country. Within tourism and the mineral and petroleum industries, we will in the years to come see a significant increase in the North with the Advance Party in government. I record that the Labour Party believes that they lost the election because they were unclear. In my home state, Finnmark, we didn't experience it that way. We felt that the Workers' Party was very clear that the taxes and charges should be increased, and the voters were equally clear that they did not want it. For the last four years, the centre party has painted a black-coal image of the Right-Fremskrit party government. There was no way it was going to go wrong. The centre party feared dramatic consequences for agriculture in 2013 when they announced a food crisis and a fury of agriculture. In agriculture, we are seeing new optimism today: fewer farms are being laid down now than when the Centre Party had the Minister of Agriculture, the self-sufficiency rate is increasing, we produce more food, and we are now self-sufficient in lambs. Nor was there a lack of fear propaganda from the left about how bad it would be with the Norwegian economy if the Progress Party came into government. The local economy under this government is as good as it hasn't been since the last millennium. The construction of roads and railways in the districts is enormous and the maintenance service has been reduced for the first time in a long time. After decades of increasing maintenance seats, the launch has now turned around. Much remains before the roads are in the position the Progress Party wants, but the course is now correct. The voters clearly showed that they were tired of black paint and would rather have yellow paint to paint mid-strips on new and maintained roads that the government and the Minister of Transport provide at an ever higher pace. The voters wanted four new years with the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e929	The Government’s State of the State Communication stated that the infrastructure should be efficient and modern. The left shall contribute in this area. In the transport sector, we have a great opportunity to solve our own greenhouse gas emissions challenges, and by developing and implementing the right technology, we can contribute to less emissions far beyond our own borders. The majority and the government must have clear targets. You have to set a year, for example. for the replacement of diesel locomotives. We need an electric locomotive on all sections of the train. Electricity in Norway is renewable and comes mainly from hydropower — and little from wind power. Today we hang wires in the air to supply the locomotives with energy. It is expensive to build and operate, and especially beautiful it is not. In the future, we will include the energy on the train, either with batteries or hydrogen that can be used to produce electricity through fuel cell technology. The left has great faith that this technology can be used soon. Germany is testing routes with hydrogen today. Both the Northern Railway, the Røros Railway and the Raumaban must now stop using diesel locomotives and move on to renewable energy. Norway has the competence, not least in my home town of Trondheim, to research, test and deliver solutions. The left's perception and aim is that diesel locomotives should be at the museum within 10 years. Only fossil-free cars shall be available for sale by 2025. We all agree on that. And biogas and the battery operation of the buses must now be required in all new tendering periods. Biogas buses in Trondheim and in several other cities have been tested and biogas production in Norway is soon large enough and is environmentally friendly. We just have to say, run on! Ferries as well: electric ferries, or maybe hydrogen, should be a clear requirement for all sections. There's no time to lose. Air carriers are now open to the integration of sustainable bio-based energy. Of course, the hope is battery aircraft in 10–15 years. There's a lot going on in that sector. But what about setting a year? By 2035 all aeroplanes shall use renewable energy in Norway! Then we give a clear signal to the product market, the researchers and the passengers. We must all have the threat!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e943	The last year has been marked by many tough debates around the long-term plan of defence. One of the most mentioned things has been the main base for helicopter at Bardufoss. The centre party has fought and continues to fight for the main helicopter base to be on Bardufoss. Therefore, it will be exciting to see what will be presented on the next Friday when the land estate services are provided. Several parties have signaled in the election campaign that Bardufoss' main base is important to them when the land estate services are to be adopted. The central party now expects these parties to follow it up in Stortinget. The centre party has been clear and is clear that Bardufoss must have a suitable helicopter for the Army. Taking away from the Army Bell helicopters is a weakening of the Norwegian Defence in general, and of the Defence in North Norway in particular. There are many reasons why the Center Party has doubled its ups and downs in North Norway. One of them is the degradation the government has adopted by the Defense in the North, where the Center Party has been and is a clear counter-power. There is no modern army in the world today that has no functional helicopter available. The Bell Helicopters give the Army the opportunity to move soldiers quickly to important positions in the terrain. Helicopters are short and well a crucial capacity. Norway's long-distance country and our geography with mountains, fjords and valleys make it very difficult for the Army to operate without this capacity. There has been a lot of talk about the NH90 helicopters being able to carry out missions that the Bell helicopters have today. This is the helicopter for the Coast Guard and the Marine, but they are not a substitute for the Bell helicopters, and it must be made clear in this debate. The Central Party is also clear that the appropriations for defence must be increased and, as the sole party, has proposed that Norway should live up to its commitments towards NATO and increase its investments and appropriations for defence to reach 2 pst. of gross domestic product. The Nordic regions are the country’s main foreign policy area of interest both because of the central geographical location and resources in the area. This is not at the root of the government’s design of the defence’s capacity and structure. In order to safeguard Norwegian interests, it is necessary that our military capabilities are heavily present. The central party is concerned that the long-term plan shifts the centre of gravity of the total military activity out of the northern regions. The long-term plan weakens the defence’s presence in the north and through it also the ability of Norway to defend itself. If the defense is still going to be a center of gravity in the north, we have to keep important bases in North Norway that enable us to defend ourselves. This will be important for the Central Party when the Land Forces are coming. Then the helicopter base at Bardufoss must be prioritised and continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e960	Unfortunately, the election did not go as we had hoped, and now wait four new years in opposition. But one thing is certain: the Labour Party must be a constructive and clear voice on the Stortinget. The Labour Party shall continue to develop and vote for good policies that respond to the challenges that people actually face in everyday life. Both Norway and the world are developing, giving new opportunities and challenges. One of the opportunities lies in technology, and Norway is in a special position here. But it requires an active policy, it requires business development, and it requires a real willingness to invest in lifelong learning. The Labour Party, together with the trade union movement, has always struggled to make it possible to learn new and participate in the labour market. That's how we create safe and new jobs. Borregaard in Sarpsborg is in many ways the crown example of an enterprise that has gone from being an old industrial enterprise to a top modern competence company without a stretch in the team. It hasn't come of itself. We know that tripartite cooperation is crucial if Norway is to succeed. When the employee, the employer and the public are moving in the same direction, we are totally unimaginable. To achieve this, we need to keep the tab high for safe jobs and a serious working life. It must be possible for individuals to acquire new knowledge, and that is precisely why the Workers' Party has called for a reform of their skills for learning in the labour market. After four years of right-wing party government, the Working Environment Act has been weakened and tripartite cooperation and the Norwegian model has been neglected on several occasions. I'm afraid we're going to see more of the same policy in this period. But who knows? We have continued to benefit from presenting the government's policy. Let me stress: we need more community, and not less, if we're going to solve tomorrow's challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e975	Norway is a good country to live in, but we must not go into the trap of thinking that we are so good that we are going to preserve society, or be destructive in the face of change opportunities and possibly spread fear of change. I want to point out that fear of change has marked the election campaign in the north. But fear of change doesn't change the situation we get into in 2025, where the forecasts show that spending to the government is increasing more than income. Norway needs to change — in order to maintain what is good with Norway. We need to create a sustainable welfare system that also works in the future, so that future generations can benefit from what we have benefited from, making Norway one of the world's best countries to live in. We'll take care of that. We have expenditure on the state budget that is growing faster than revenue is. It is political laxity to propose only tax change as a solution to this problem. It does not benefit consumers’ purchasing power, and it also affects businesses, with poorer framework conditions. Therefore, Norway now needs politicians who want to rethink to increase the economic space we have and prepare the basis for sustainable well-being. We are in a process now where we need to modernise and invest for the future. Our welfare community is also about our sense of security – knowing that there are people there when it really applies. During this period, the government has worked to ensure that the police's time to call down, and that the police will be in a faster position when they are needed. It matters to our sense of security. I don't get any more confidence in knowing how many loner offices there are in Finnmark. But I feel safe when more policemen are on wheels and it is facilitated that the police car is an effective job for police officers. This can be achieved by facilitating the release of resources in budgets through police reform and by giving priority to employing more police officers with better equipment. Seeing differently on the Norway map also gives room to change the Municipality-Norway and the regions. Being razed in a regional reform is about recognizing that a new region is not about putting down Finnmark, but about creating a region that is better equipped to take on new tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e988	In a troubled world, Norway is a safe and well-being port and a strong social security network. But even though our port is lukewarm, we are affected by what's happening in the world around us. The fall in the oil price had great consequences for many, especially in the South and West, and in my own home country, Rogaland. Many experienced uncertainties, 50,000 people lost their jobs. On the right, the conversion started for several jobs on the day we joined the government. Now more research is going on, and the taxes are going down. Road and rail downturns, and investments are high in record terms. The big money goes to investment in knowledge, transport and innovation. We see that the Right Solutions work. Unemployment goes down, growth goes up, and more jobs are created. Several young people get work, and Rogaland is actually the country with most new entrepreneurs. Optimism is on its way back, and in the elections, people said no to empty criticism and black paint and yes to a bourgeois majority who work hard to get more people to work. If we are to succeed, we must first take care of the jobs we already have. Norwegian oil and gas will continue to be our largest and most important industry for decades to come – because production here is cleaner than elsewhere in the world, because gas in particular is competing dirty coal power on the continent, because the industry contributes to hundreds of thousands of jobs and thousands of billions to our common well-being. At the same time, we have to use what the oil adventure has taught us to create more green jobs. The Stavanger region has all the prerequisites for further success as Norway’s energy capital, and the South and West will continue to be a powerful engine in the Norwegian economy. Based on strong and increasingly strong university and research environments, we will create a multi-legged Norway. Safety for work is about quality of life and mastering for the individual, the joy of sharing in a community, getting up every morning and knowing that you need it. One of our most important tasks is to help those outside, into the heat. We don't give up until everyone who wants to work has a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1001	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, congratulations on the President's office. I will follow up on the matter of Norwegian nuclear policy, which I also mentioned in a couple of replies yesterday. As everyone knows, in July of this year, a treaty text adding to a ban on nuclear weapons was adopted by 122 votes in the United Nations. The Treaty provides for balanced and reciprocal disarmament for the nine nuclear weapons states of the world. Based on that, last week ICAN received the Nobel Peace Prize. In fact, it is in Norway that the peace prize for ICAN and the work for a ban on nuclear weapons are something the Norwegian government seems to be opposed to. The government is clear that it does not want Norway to join the international ban under any conditions. This is paradoxical, because at the same time, the government says it's against nuclear weapons – but it doesn't want to join the most important historical process for the disposal of nuclear weapons. The main reason is that the government believes that the ban on nuclear weapons is incompatible with NATO membership. NATO shall have nuclear weapons as long as other countries have it, they say. Nevertheless, the text of the Treaty has now been signed and will be an international ban during 2018. A ban on international law is then imposed, regardless of what Norway thinks and thinks. Norway is on the loser side in this case. We believe that a ban supported by two thirds of the world's countries will put considerable normative and political pressure on nuclear states. SV therefore believes that Norway should contribute to that pressure and be a driver, both internationally and within NATO, for the abolition of nuclear weapons. It will be to place Norway on the moral and correct side of history. We have therefore submitted a proposal asking the government to present a case to the Stortinget where they can look closely at the possibility of Norwegian accession to that Treaty. We believe that the government should look at the legal and alliance political consequences of any accession. We also believe that this investigation, with which the government will come back, should also say what it means for Norway not to agree. We also ask for Norway to draw attention to what is happening in other countries. The NATO country The Netherlands was initially involved in this work in the UN, and now, in retrospect, the government of the NATO country Italy has started a process with the same starting point as what we are asking the Norwegian government to do. We believe it is completely possible to go into this, and we believe that the government must look at these possibilities and not reject this initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1018	The Solberg government regained confidence in the election. That means that people are satisfied with how the country is governed. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have delivered. We have shown the will and ability to modernise the public sector and carry out the necessary reforms. The majority of voters would not have a different policy direction. They wanted Erna Solberg as Prime Minister. The right is concerned with safety and predictability. We will continue with a policy that takes responsibility for the whole, conduct a responsible economic policy that ensures competitiveness, facilitates high employment and sustainable well-being. We have four demanding years behind us, with a large fall in the oil price, followed by high unemployment in the oil industry and a historically high influx of refugees and migrants. The measures put in place by the government have produced results. Fortunately, optimism is now back in the Norwegian economy, unemployment is on its way down, and growth is on its way up. Several have addressed – during this debate – the major challenge we face today in Norway by over-the-counter working life. We have to work on that better! Everyone who can work needs to be given the opportunity and help to get to work. On the right, social security will become more labour-oriented, so that more people come into the labour market. Of course, those who are too sick to work should not be pressured into work. They shall experience a sound income hedge in the form of disability benefits. But there are many who receive social security, who want to make use of their ability to work. Everybody doesn't have to work a hundred percent. It may also be that someone needs to re-train another profession, which makes it possible to get back to work. I am particularly concerned about all the young people who fall out of work. I was visiting Young in Job in Bærum a few months ago. There is a cooperation between the municipality of Bærum, Akershus County Municipality and Nav in Asker and Bærum. Here, young unemployed people can come in unannounced and talk to good advisers who help and assist young people who have nothing to do. The project can show excellent results. They succeed in getting 70 pst. by young people into paid employment. Of these, it's 16 pst. combining work and education. It was great to talk to young people who were radiant because they had finally come to work and felt that they needed it. It is important to apply all good forces and take early action, so that young people who strive to get a foothold in their working life do not lose their motivation and give up. Cooperation between the municipality, the county and Nav, such as Young People's Job in Bærum, is an exemplary example from which others should learn. Such measures belong to the Right and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1033	It is with great humility a grazing standing here and should comment on the throne and the state of the kingdom. But as Pippi said, I've never done this before, so I'm sure I will. The Central Party wants a society with living rule, fair distribution and good governance. Then we have to take into account the seriousness and extent of Pippi's statements. Think how often school students meet theory and practice in situations they have never met before on their way. All students deserve teachers who see them, and no teachers deserve to be caste balls, where politicians are constantly to revolutionize school life by changing teacher training and the skills requirements of their profession. Teachers deserve time and confidence to exercise their greatest desire: to equip their students for the future – to qualify all students to have Pippi's inauguration against. The Central Party believes that practical and theoretical knowledge and competences are needed: professional, real-life and humanities. There must be room for those who are good both with hands and with heads. We want future trade union workers and academics from high school. It is sad to have witnessed that the Right Party and the Advance Party, with the support of the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, have been led in the wrong direction. Primary and secondary education are among the core tasks of municipalities and counties. Instead of strengthening the right of self-determination and the space for action for our local government levels, the government has been exploiting the municipalities and the counties. The resources we have locally should not go to structural reform, but to solve local challenges, challenges such as lack of school skills. Right-wing measures for the separation of teachers, increased character requirements for admission to teacher training and the prioritisation of grades in a test or printout, rather than individual progress, are among the wrong measures if we are to have a better school for the students. Rather, the centre party will give teachers confidence and increase teacher density to give teachers better time for dedicated and early work for the students in the classroom. National, clear objectives shall be followed up by local instruments and measures to achieve them. The centre batch will simplify the assessment regulation and limit testing to what teachers need in order to have a good assessment basis. The centre party will have a real education offer throughout Norway, with municipalities and counties with economic space for action. Professional students need to be provided with increased equipment scholarships and apprenticeships. This and much more have given me a strong mandate from Uppland, Valdres, Østre Slimre and Beito to fight for. Workplaces, businesses and development throughout Norway depend on our having an education that gives us more with the attendance meeting at Pippi.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1050	A well-functioning community sector is crucial for a good development of the welfare society. For the Right, this is about strengthening local self-government and ensuring good services for the inhabitants. Healthy and good finances for the municipal sector, combined with a sensible division of tasks between the state, regions and municipalities, will be important factors. The economic results of the municipalities in the country show that the municipal economy has rarely been as good as we have seen in recent years. Before the summer, it was agreed that 121 municipalities merged into 47 new municipalities. Most of these mergers have a background in good conversations between neighbouring municipalities. For the whole of Kommune-Noreg, this work should continue with assessments of additional aggregations. Good local processes are important, but it is in my opinion the Stortinget that is responsible for ensuring that we have an administrative structure that is the most appropriate for the whole country. The municipalities to join together are doing well in the practical work of establishing new municipalities. The time is short, and there are large tasks added to local politicians and administrations in the municipalities covered by the merger decision. New rematches and speculations about Storting's decision from June stand or not, I don't think Kommune-Noreg is on. I think this actually creates more anxiety and uncertainty among the municipalities that are now involved in the implementation of the merger process. In this context, I thought it was good to hear the representative of the Christian People's Party who, in yesterday's change of lines, was clear that the Christian People's Party would not go for the reversal of previous decisions on municipal convergence. Municipalities are facing major challenges with more and more complex tasks. Right? I think it's important to renew the municipal sector to enable the municipality of Norway to meet tomorrow's challenges. More complex tasks and expectations of municipal services, which increase as life expectancy and standard of living, mean that society is changing. Such a change in society also means that we need to make Kommune-Noreg able to solve these problems for years to come. It is important that work on municipal reform continues in due course. A well-functioning community sector is crucial for a good development of the welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1067	I have to talk about my beautiful Lofoten again. The people of Lofoten are quite clear about what they think about oil drilling. InFact conducted an opinion poll of 76 p.m. in August. they replied that they were against oil drilling in these vulnerable areas. We are harvesting a renewable resource that has been the foundation for housing and industrial development throughout the country over thousands of years, creating thousands of jobs and providing nutritious food on the table to millions of people around the world. Fish is Norway's second largest export industry. The sea outside the Lofoten and the Western Sea is unique. The world's last large cod population is spawning here, and 70 pst. of all the fishing resources in the Barents and Norwegian Seas use this area at some stage of their lives. We are in Norway, we in this room, who are responsible for managing these resources in the future as well. This successful coexistence between people, natural resources and the environment is also the basis for the tourism industry. Spectacular nature provides unparalleled opportunities for natural experiences, and tourists flock to, summer and winter. The oil industry represents a serious threat to these renewable natural values. Seismic shooting scares fish, damages eggs and larvae, and disturbs the marine environment. On the narrow continental shelf outside the Lofoten, the West and Senja there is no room for both the oil industry and fishing. Oil activity will be at the expense of fisheries. Pollution of the fishing grounds and the risk of major emissions are increasing and concern, inter alia: Petroleum Control. It should worry many more, not least the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Labour Party. These three parties choose to minimize all warnings and go in to open the Lofoten, the West Pole and the Senja to the oil companies, even though a majority both locally, regionally and nationally say no. For SV, we believe it is time for this room to put a line over this debate once and for all – a vision shared by a large majority of those living there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1084	Right-wing jobs for a society with opportunities for everyone – a society where there's nothing to say about who you are, or where you come from, where everyone should have the same opportunities to succeed. Together with skilled teachers, the government is creating a knowledge school with opportunities for everyone. After four years with a knowledge minister from the Right, Norwegian school is on the right. The students learn more, they are more present in the classroom, and more complete further education. We know that students who are not caught up early are at risk of defeat through school and often drop out. That's why it's so important that we put the effort in early. We have started the work, and early efforts are one of the main initiatives for the coming period. We're going to make sure that the boy in the back row never gives up. Quite apart from the financial crisis, more and more young people have remained out of work and education. Thousands have been standing without completing high school and without the right to do anything about it. They have simply fallen between two chairs — youth law and adult law. Through the government's communication on lifelong learning, we have now amended the Training Act to give young people the right to complete secondary education. This allows them to get into further education and get into work. It gives independence and dignity to the individual. In Rogaland, we thought it was such a good move that we just decided to go ahead. We can already see the first results. People who were previously passive by the system have chosen to seize the opportunity – more people get started on everyday life and get a better life. We live in a country with little differences and high trust between people. In order for it to continue to be so, we must continue to create a knowledge school with opportunities for everyone. We will continue to focus on the teacher, on early work, on a professional career and on several measures to reduce high school drop-outs. Together, we create the knowledge school, where more learn and no one remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1097	In Norway, we are getting older in both the number and proportion of the population. I feel that there is a consensus in this room that we are facing some major challenges related to the future care of the elderly. When I'm not here, I'm a nurse and I'm working with the elderly in the city of Asker. Every day, I see the challenges the municipality faces as a result of the increasing age and number of complex disease images. There is already a shortage of resources in care, and there is a constant focus on efficient and cost-saving solutions. It's already a great deal of change because our people are getting sicker and sicker, they need more time, more presence, more follow-up and not least more competence. Already now, they are striving to recruit nurses to the community health service in many places. Several studies among nursing students show that newly educated nurses fear that the professional environment is small, the responsibility is great, and the many tasks involved. This is based on students' own experience through community practices. This trend must be reversed. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have had a major focus on sustainable well-being, the use of public money, the need to focus on nutrition and smart solutions in the public sector. But what does that really mean? It can almost seem as if employees in the public sector are wasting time and money uncritically when they are at work. It is warned by the Prime Minister of tougher times and clear demands for efficiency. Is it now expected that we employees will run even a little faster and get even more tasks on a full list? There are no answers to the need for care for the elderly in Norway. With all due respect to report, I mean this testifies to a distance from reality. Although it is nice that the government parties have such confidence in me as a nurse and my ability to work, I must honestly admit that I have my limitations. I can't be in several places at the same time, I can only feed one resident at a time and shower one resident at a time. So maybe the Right Party and the Advance Party think that there are smarter ways to do this, but the reality is that many of the tasks in the care of the elderly are practical and interpersonal. If we are to streamline, it is about rigid priorities between residents. It's going to affect someone. The Labour Party recognises that care for the elderly needs to be further developed in line with society and the growth of the elderly. There we must contribute constructively to our policy of how we create secure care for everyone. However, the Labour Party also recognises that quality costs, and understands that good quality of service also means enough staff to do the job properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1111	The world doesn't always move forward. We often meet attitudes in our society that threaten human dignity. We know that girls' children in India are being sorted out because of sex. Sort of healthy girls scares us, but unfortunately it's a good example of how technology can be used against man and not for. Technological progress and medical development must always be aimed at treating and not sorting. We have never, in human history, had better conditions to protect the inviolable value of man. Knowledge gives us the opportunity to help and treat far more and to develop tools to ensure that all people can live a life of their own and could be included in working life, in social life and not least in social contexts. Sorting people because of some traits we cannot tolerate in an open and liberal society, as we cannot tolerate sorting because of legging, race or sex. The Christian People's Party will fight the sorting society. Medical progress must lead to better treatment and relief of diseases, but we will be critical of changes aimed only at sorting people out on the basis of characteristics. We want more research to protect life, but we clearly say no to research to develop the so-called perfect human being. We clearly say yes to the technological development of tools for people with disabilities, but a clear refusal to exclude people from society. It's time to create a society with space for everyone. The Christian People's Party's belief and view of life is based on a fundamental belief in the positive social building force that lies in our Christian cultural heritage and the religious communities. This force has several dimensions, it goes backwards in time, but the Christian People's Party is also aware that Christianity also plays a crucial role here and now, both as a key to understanding Norwegian culture, languages and references and as the very foundation of a living church and churches across our country, far beyond the borders of the country. The Christian People's Party wants Christianity to continue to be significant for future generations, not just as a chapter in the history books, but as a resource for life-meaning and mastery, ethical reflection and solidarity. That is why the government's work on the new religion law is so important. It will preface how politics relates to religious communities, yes to believing people, and what place religion should have in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1126	‘A sustainable welfare society’ was the government’s head of the throne. It's a veiling expression -- it's not concrete, it's not measurable, and it can be interpreted in many different ways. The centre party will have a safe welfare society. A safe welfare society is not given to us without a safe health system, and a safe health system is not given to us without a fact-based and honest debate that provides the basis for a common sense of reality. And we're far from there today. Last year, VG demonstrated extensive serious and illegal forced use in Norwegian psychiatry. In 2015, there were 640 belt layings that were illegal or problematic, i.e. assaults against psychiatric patients. The size was made aware of this by VG, not by the ministry. There's a scandal in itself. The question is, how could the government not know? Can we trust the government's mention of the Norwegian health service? I mean no, and I say, "Honor be a VG!" Stavanger Aftenblad's report about the so-called glass girl is another example. In 2016, the people of Hordaland, Rogaland and Troms presented a shattering review report on the stay of glacial girls during child protection. Jenta didn't get a growth and a care that our society has decided that children should have. The report did not only show system failures, but showed system failures. How could the government not know? Why was Storting not informed? I say, "Honor Stavanger Aftenblad!" TV 2 and the day's medicine were the ones who revealed the big waiting list joke. Thousands of patients on internal, unofficial waiting lists gave hospitals more official waiting list statistics, but patients were not treated more quickly. A delay of 160 000 patient agreements was detected. Patients lost their rights to treatment and received a more non-binding period of time for distribution. But how could the government not know? After all, the practice had to be known for hundreds of health leaders who are associated with the ministry and government. I say, "Honor be TV 2 and the medicine of the day!" Today, the Stortinget shall vote on a proposal to evaluate the fixed medical scheme. The proposal of the centre party was voiced in the spring. Now there are multiples due to VG, for VG cartels in summer the fixed situation in Norwegian municipalities. The result was dramatic: massive recruitment failure in both large and small municipalities. The staging system, the core wall of the municipal health service, is breaking down. How could councillor Höie not know? And again: Honor be VG! Norway needs an honest debate on health policy, a system debate where we have one demand, and that is that the Stortinget is informed by the government about the real situation in Norwegian health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1143	I am concerned that Norway's government is always taking responsibility for operating a policy that provides the basis for new jobs. Today's government seems to lean on a blind belief in tax relief, but it creates little jobs. What we know about the tax reliefs of the Right Party and the Advance Party is that they re-distribute from the community to those who have the most from before. I therefore call for a policy that works, so that we can create more jobs and throughout the country. There was little content in the speech from the Right and the Advance Party. In particular, there were disappointing little policies that could create work across the country. When the Workers' Party last joined the government, we launched a survey of mineral resources in Norway. It created expectations, and perhaps in particular it created expectations in North Norway. Indeed, our neighbouring regions in Sweden and Finland have a much greater understanding of their resources. They extract them, and it creates thousands of jobs in our neighbouring regions just across the borders of my county, Northernland. In these regions mining is the foundation of industrial and viable communities, and it provides jobs in districts where it would otherwise be difficult to find work. This is what the Labour Party also wants for Norway. That is why we give priority to identifying our minerals, and the disappointment was great in my part of the country when the Right-Fremskritspart-government stopped the mapping that NGU carried out in the autumn of 2015. We will continue to propose to map. There are expenditures that can create new jobs and provide a basis for future well-being. We also need an infrastructure that builds up under the ability to drive profitable business development, and we need an infrastructure that takes account of our climate. This government has adopted a national transport plan which, for North Norway, is without trace of prioritizing environmentally friendly alternatives to the export of fresh fish from the country. Most of the fresh fish from Nordland and Troms are exported via Narvik on Ofotbanen through Sweden. Here the government has failed to engage in dialogue with Sweden to ensure that these exports have growth potential. In the summer of 2014, Minister of Transport Solvik-Olsen came to Narvik and declared to the world through NTB that he was to secure capacity, he was to build double tracks on Ofotbanen. The transport modes in both countries had pointed out in many possible ways to realize it and more involving large contributions from industry. Then it kept quiet. The Labour Party expects the government to engage in dialogue with Sweden and industry on how we ensure this green transport of fresh fish for the future. It will provide security of access to markets so that business can do their job and increase production.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1156	For the first time in a very long time, the Center Party in Finnmark is represented at Stortinget. ‘What’s happening in North Norway?’ is a famous book written by Professor Ottar Brox. It created much of our northern part of the country in its time, but it created no upheavals at that time, and since then much has gone wrong in the weather. As many in this room know, there are fish that are our most important way of life in Finnmark. Much has not changed since blessed prost. Petter Dass wrote «Nordlands trompet»: «Skin’ cod us feyle, what had we then». The clear language of the statistics, New Public Management, is management tool, and government councils from the Workers' Party, Right and Advance Party have consistently joined market management with the state as contributor. The allocation of rights under political decision-making processes, which are, of course, the legal system, has been wrecked in the ministry responsible for the common fish resource of the people. Fishing weather for fishing weather is spotted for fishing rights and remains ribbed. Here are the clear figures: The following municipalities have lost quota rights in Finnmark in the period 2004-2015: Porsanger minus 25 pst., Nordkapp minus 10 pst., Alta minus 27 pst., Måsøy minus 16 pst., Kvalsund minus 77 pst., Hasvik minus 31 pst., Loppa minus 48 pst., Vardø minus 45 pst., Hammerfest minus 26 pst. The market shall not designate who will harvest the resources on behalf of the Community. It's the owners, i.e. All of us, the people. Numerous public documents state that the fish must be used for the best paid use. The fish belonging to the people shall be in a land where the people live, and there shall be employment and housing. If the allocation of allowances does not fulfil this essential purpose, the fisheries management fails to fulfil its responsibilities. In my period as Finnmark's representative, I'm going to remind the assembly of the state of things in Finnmark. The centre party will promote and support proposals that will restore the fish to fishing waters, to which the fish belong and have belonged – now and in the historical period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1171	Let me first use the opportunity to thank the many who gave their voice to the Advance Party in the autumn elections. In my home country, More and Romesdal, we increased our upswing in relation to the elections four years ago, which I regard as a good support for what we have achieved in the last period, and as a sign that even more wants even more of our political solutions. I can assure you that I have all the intentions to fulfill that very thing. Monday's speech contained a lot of good, and I noticed that the King highlighted the positive by having small differences in Norway. Nevertheless, I want to develop an area where we are experiencing increasing differences. The number of children and young people pushed out through bullying and exclusion, both in their general everyday life and on social media, is increasing. It's a challenge that politicians are not allowed to overlook, because there's a big difference between being inside or outside. Not being allowed to participate — not to be included or part of the same social life as others of their own age — not only gives young people an insecure everyday life, it also creates unsafe young people, who have a high risk of developing mental problems. It's great that, as politicians, we've become better at talking about the bullying challenges in society. What we haven't done well enough, however, is meet the very many people who have been bullied. The effects of having been bullied are stronger than we know, and then we have to make sure that we have a good follow-up and also that we, as adults, we as politicians, look more closely at the problem. Between 15 pst. and 20 pst. by Norwegian children and young people with mental health challenges. Many of these have been subjected to bullying, and it is our job to ensure that the help they receive is felt as safe and good. Therefore, we must continue to strengthen school health services and ensure that they also have the capacity to conduct outreach activities. But then the municipalities also have to follow up and spend increased funds on just that. One of the best ways to let someone develop a good mental health is to make them feel safe, and then we have to do everything we can to ensure that no one exposes them to insecurity. Bullying is an unculture – bullying is not good. And we as adults have to be tougher to show attitudes toward bullying. No one in Norway is to suffer health damage because others do not have a standard of living. The fight against bullying will be important to me in my political work during this period. It may not be common to use their whole first post to go directly into one topic, as I do today, but this is the first opportunity I have to tell you that I and my party will spend a lot of time coming, to focus on mental health for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1192	It may appear that the majority of the Grand Duchy will decide later today to increase the feather quota by four weeks. It seems that the parties Right and the Advance Party are not going to support the Labour Party's proposal. The Working Party justifies this proposal by gender equality, inter alia: Today, the parental leave is equal. Mom has ten weeks, Dad has ten weeks, and for the rest of the leave period, it's up to the family itself to decide what's best for them. Right wants more fathers to take out more leave than the allowance suggests. Nav's figures show that the spring quota is becoming increasingly popular, and that more fathers are taking leave beyond the quota. Yes, 2017 seems to be a top year for fathers who take out more than the feather quota. That's good. After all, any discussion about allowances can quickly cause the focus to be removed from the majority of the period of leave, which is the majority. We in the Right want to make it easier for fathers to take out leave. We will remove the requirement that fathers give a written reason why they should take out leave on the common quota, and we want a total change in attitude to this common denominator. It can't be that in families where father wants to take a greater part of the quota, he will experience almost to be asked if he wants to take off the «mother's share». It's the common part that the family is going to share. Nor is it that the state knows what is best for each family. The most important thing for us in the Right is that the family finds solutions that are for the best for them and the child. Right-wing equality policy is based on the freedom of choice of the family as well. It is an important value in itself that families can decide for themselves, and that decisions on these questions are taken as far as possible around the dinner table and not in the main hall. We take note today that the Storting is likely to continue to increase the family's quota, even though we believe that it restricts the freedom of choice of families. But at the same time, we are delighted that more and more fathers are taking out the feather quota in today's ten weeks and taking out more of the common portion. That's all possible reason to be proud that we're actually using -- I think I've figured it right up to 50 billion. kr per year in order to enable children to have their parents close to the first time after birth or adoption. Closeness to mother and closeness to father means a lot to children's attachment in their first year of life. We are well aware that there is some disagreement about the arrangement, but we are pleased that we have solid and good arrangements for this in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1205	‘The amended Security Policy landscape requires us to make conscious choices to care for Norwegian interests’, said His Majesty the King in his speech on Monday. The situation around us is changing faster than it is possible to change the defence. That's why it's important to stop the decay and rebuild it. It's when we feel safe, we're going to prepare for an insecure world. Our democracy depends on a strong and credible defence. The defense is the foundation of the rest of society being built on. It's quick to put down military capabilities, but it takes many years to build them up again. Therefore, the defence must be developed and trained in a long-term perspective, even in times when we do not seem to need it. We should have learned, for three times between 1814 and 1905, the Swedes forced the Stortinget to remake legitimate decisions. A weak Norwegian defense could not stand up to the Swedish threat of war. In 1895, the Stortinget joined forces to renovate the defense so strongly that Norway was in a position to break out of the Union with Sweden in 1905. Today, it's perhaps the greatest hybrid threat. How are we going to deal with situations where we are in a state between war and peace? The most important task of defence is to secure our democracy. If they're going to do it, they're going to have to have the tools to do the job. We're doing great. Much good political work is done, but there is still much to be done. For the government it has been important to fill empty stocks. It has also been important to make vehicles, vessels, weapon systems and other vital material work, and this is an increase in defence capability in practice, even if it does not seem so good. In other words, much has been done to strengthen the defense, but there is still much to be done. Several of the parties in Stortinget have said they will increase the funding for the Defense so that it comes up to 2 pst. of gross domestic product by 2024. I hope we can gather about this ambition. I'll finally mention our veterans. Since 1945, 100,000 Nordics have served in more than 40 countries, and this is our contribution to international peace, a contribution that also obligates Norwegian society. For most people, foreign service is a positive experience that gives valuable experiences, but there are also some soldiers who never come home completely. The Red-Green Government established the action plan ‘In service for Norway’, a plan that has been continued by today’s government. Seven departments are involved in the plan, which contains 126 measures. The measures shall also take care of the soldier's spouse and children. In many cases, these and other families are also affected by the stress and the strong experiences of serving Norway. However, a veteran plan should also include the positive experience of international services, for foreign services provide a unique knowledge of other countries and cultures that benefit from home in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1220	In order for people in Norway to be able to live a good life as they wish, good health is crucial. In that work we need more fellowship, not less. Community solutions are the best guarantor to ensure that everyone has access to the best healthcare services, regardless of their origin. The government says there are slight differences in Norway. Unfortunately, it does not do what is needed to keep it that way. Today, over 500,000 Nordics have private health insurance. I do not blame those who choose to sign such an insurance, but we 169 who sit in this hall, should not be satisfied with the fact that more than half a million no longer dare put their trust in the Community safety net being good enough. I get feedback from people like that. have been referred to MR studies and tell you about several months in queue, but if you can pay a few thousand or have health insurance, you can come in the next day. Then it may not be so strange that people feel that there are holes in the community's safety net. That's the situation of this government and councillor Höie's watch. Because in the four years that have passed, the government did not fulfill its promise of 12 billion. kr more to the hospitals, Sørlanden Hospital, which I belong to, must cut several hundred jobs in the next few years. It creates no more security for the inhabitants of Agder. On the contrary, there is uncertainty about the offers in particular in Arendal and Flekkefjord. The last government party, the Christian People's Party and the Left did in the budget deal last fall, was to introduce an efficiency requirement for hospitals of nearly 600 million. kr. Let's hope they don't add up to a reprisal of this tomorrow, because it doesn't help more people get good, fast and necessary health care, whether it's on Agder or in the rest of the country. But giving more opportunities to experience quality of life is also about seeing the whole country to get inspired by the good ideas out there. In the election campaign I was in Grimstad and visited the Eyegarden Institute and was impressed. There's a daily offer for people from just over 60 years old and up with dementia, driven by volunteers, set off by someone who had a father who had got dementia himself. On a small farm in Grimstad, they had the opportunity to experience mastering by cooking together, cutting the lawn or painting an outdoor wall and the possibility of experiences through trips in the community. The volunteers experienced the joy of doing something meaningful for others, while getting themselves involved and a more social everyday life. With quite a few public dollars in support of this kind of activity around the country, we can get to something that means a lot too many. The Labour Party has given room for this in its budgets, and we have said in our programme that we will cooperate with voluntary teams and individuals who can contribute to the care of the elderly. It's that we care about each other and that the community stands up. Through the community, the Workers' Party will build the health service. It's the law of the government and the other bourgeois parties to look to the left side of those things, because after all, it's on the left side that one finds the heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1233	I have been in all my political work for a new organisation of the Capital Region. Oslo and Akershus belong together in almost all areas, but it's just to register: there's no majority and desire in Oslo to join Akershus or to go into a larger metropolitan region. I think I'll add: not in any party in Oslo is it wanting to. And in addition, there is probably no government that will force Oslo – with the meaning that Oslo has – into another organization. Then I'll say it like this: if you don't get the one you want to marry, you're disappointed, but it goes over. The solution is at least, if you don't get the one you want to marry, instead of marrying two others! That is what is now the reality of what is happening with the Viken region, the new region from Halden to the Hallingskarvet, at the merger of Akershus, Østfold – and I think I have the president with me when I add – and beautiful Buskerud. No one wants such a merger: not the three counties, none of the 22 municipalities in Akershus – many of them with the Right-Rapporteur – and, as far as I know, none of the parties of all parties in the three states concerned. I see that Akershus Right Head, Harek Riveres, is on my list. He has been out with clear speech and said that it is madness to join the states in the Oslo area – Viken – without Oslo being there. Well spoken by the Right Leader of Akershus! I totally agree. So anyway, the Storting decided what they did in June. In the election campaign there were several of us who tried to bring this up, but the four parties that were behind the decision in June, just blew it away. It was not possible to get a serious discussion about the benefit of establishing the Viken region. No one would defend it, and that is understandable, because it cannot be defended. It is an unusually bad idea to organize the capital region without the capital being included! And then we should say, that's okay, either we do this properly, or we leave it. So I appeal to the Christian People's Party, which has given good signals after the election. I am not going to re-examine the whole regional reform, but the concrete proposal that is now under consideration in Stortinget: please, Christian People's Party, look carefully and thoroughly at the proposal on the Viken region.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1246	We'll leave the Viking in this round. I would rather use my speaking time to get into a matter in Akershu County that is probably as important as the Week. The Gjørv Commission provided a lethal report on the state of Norwegian preparedness. It shook a total crowd and had a number of recommendations on how to improve preparedness. One of the measures proposed was a national emergency response centre. The representative Wilkinson was inside this center in his post, which was directly misleading in view of the work done to reduce the noise of that emergency centre. The centre is now being developed through state regulation, following a number of proposals to reduce noise, which emerged during the consultation period. As the centre will now be built, both national and local noise requirements will be satisfied. Noise-absorbing materials are being built, noise-absorbing materials are being used, and parking spaces are being built. In fact, ensuring the security of the population is the government, the Storting and the state's main task. That is why this government has raised civil and military preparedness in the four-year period – including in the census. In fact, this government has implemented all the measures taken by the Gjørv Commission in its report. Let me mention: there have been 1,800 more posts in the Norwegian police force, all police districts have got armored vehicles, the PST is strengthened by 300 million. There are more than 300 sharp personnel in the Norwegian police who can handle sharp situations, and new police helicopters have been ordered. Unfortunately, time does not allow to mention much of the other thing that is actually done. But the work on preparedness – civil or military preparedness – is not a project that is being completed, where one can say that we have now come to an end, because threats and risks change over time. But there's a line going through the government's work of taking hold of civil and military preparedness. The defense has now turned from years of degradation, implemented by changing governments, to a gradual build-up, where 180 billion will be used. kr more on the Defence over the long term. And this is done in the recognition that we must have a strong national defence in order to be able to exercise sovereignty, avoid being subjected to political pressure and, in the worst case, be able to defend our own territory, which is absolutely vital for us to exercise democracy and to be a state of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1260	I am pleased that the last few years have been spent by the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left on important reforms, which will be a prerequisite for us to meet the challenges of future Welfare Norway. Norway and world development are raging at an increasing pace, and the red-green solution seems to be to stop all attempts to rethink and find new solutions to major and important challenges in Velferds-Norway. The red-greens should have improvements in all areas, but at the same time work hard on all proposals and reforms presented by the government – because there should be no change, only improvements. There's no recognition that you're going to have improvements, assuming you're willing to change something. Challenges and problems need to be solved in one way and there is an increase in tax revenue both for the country and for the municipalities. The people have to pay, but how to spend the money should not be asked for and made assessments around. The representative of the Workers' Party, Mr Lauvås, was challenged yesterday by the representative Limi of the Advance Party in the case of examples of where it has been unnecessary to introduce property taxes. I would like to give an example from my municipality of residence, Malvik, where we have had this social tax for several years. In 2003, the Workers' Party there opted for property taxes to be imposed — like the promise of 15 billion. kr in increase in tax at this choice – because there was no other solution. Fortunately, the Labour Party lost the election in 2003, and we got a bourgeois majority in our municipality. What happened then? Over the course of four years, with conversion and without notice, it was possible to reduce the municipality's debt by 130 million. NOK, while reversing the operating budget from nearly 30 million. kr i minus to several million i plus the last year -- all of this in four years. Then the municipality got off the ROBEK list and was able to invest again, in important areas such as school, health and well-being. It is part of the story that the Workers' Party returned to the table in 2007, according to a promise that the property tax would not be imposed. But they decided to break their election vow, they led the voters behind the light and introduced property taxes. In 2016, Malvik municipality had a profit of 41 million. kr, and property taxes continue to be levied, irrespective of the income and ability to pay of the inhabitants. It has become an easy solution to send the bill to the residents. So the only solution the Labour Party has is to increase income in terms of increased taxes, both locally and nationally. This solution believes that the Progress Party is wrong, and we will therefore continue to work to lower the tax level of the country's citizens and to make a more sensible use of the money that the public has.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1273	I appreciate the fact that the list from the Progress Party is now beginning to come. There were up to several municipalities, so I'm waiting anxiously for the rest. I hear that various representatives from the Right and the Progressive Party are now concerned about a working party which they believe will be less constructive and less cooperative. These representatives may need to think a little bit about and take a little round on how settlements concluded between different parties are actually managed. If broad settlements are to remain an opportunity and a strength for our democracy, the parties to the settlement must be sure that agreement is not abused afterwards – not in the political change of word, not in the performance of the consensus. Parliamentary Vice-President of the Right said a few months ago that the Workers' Party is involved in adopting broad settlements instead of promoting its own solutions. Now the same parliamentary Vice-President criticises the Labour Party for not being constructive and for having their own solutions. Now, among other things, To the right, do they want to find good solutions over time, or are they going to continue to act so insolently in the political change of words that such consensus in practice is impossible to achieve? Then trust breaks down. The government parties, the state councils and the representatives of the government parties here in Stortinget should take a little time to think about it. When signaling stronger efforts for integration, the government must meet a constructive working party, a working party that wants integration to succeed. I look forward to constructive debates on this. In this context, municipalities will have a key role to play in integration and inclusion. It is out in the municipalities integration and inclusion takes place. It is in the workplace and in the leisure arena, with participation in non-governmental organisations, different teams and associations, integration and inclusion taking place. I take the government's throne speech seriously, even though I think it's more gray than blue. I also assume that both sides of government are behind and are in agreement when they say that integration needs to be strengthened, even though some of the opinions of the individual representatives of this Parliament may be involved and so doubt it. The next few months will show whether the government is serious about enhanced integration. If they do, they will meet a constructive working party. But then we must also expect a tidy performance from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1284	I noticed that the Prime Minister in his speech today stressed that we need to develop a sustainable welfare society. I understand that the Prime Minister in the term «sustainable welfare society» also adds that we must succeed in integration. This means that we must conduct a responsible and regulated labour immigration policy. We must pursue a fair and strict asylum and refugee policy where those who have the right to protection get it, not those who do not. We cannot accept more than we can handle, and we must take care of those who are already part of Norway. The opposite will lead to stigmatisation. Active integration policies require that we focus on actions that create good integration and inclusion, regardless of background. For the Central Party, language is one of the important measures here. Language is one of the keys to social understanding and its integration. It is the key to the labour market and job opportunities. A basic human need is to participate in working life, feel belonging, feel that you can contribute and not least be seen. Success in this is integration in practice. To do this, we have to use the whole country. We must counteract the development of parallel societies and ghetto formations, which we see as trends in other European countries. The warning lights are already flashing in Norway. We can't close our eyes to that. Gettofization and parallel societies are evil that every society has to fight. When some groups live apart from the big community, interaction becomes minimal. There will be no breakups, impulses and corrections between closed society and the big society. Under such conditions prejudices, xenophobia and misconceptions get to live well. Widespread settlement is a good tool for a sustainable welfare society with well-integrated people in the community and through it into the nation. Immigrants who live around the country meet Norwegian language and society in a completely different way than if they were to live in already immigrant areas. A prerequisite for scattered settlement throughout the country and thus integrated people in society, regardless of background, is that there is a diversity of jobs, services, business, schools, kindergartens, leisure activities and, in particular, lively communities that create well-being and belonging throughout the country. In the view of the Centre Party, workplaces and services close to people throughout the country will be a key to all being able to participate, be seen, feel belonging locally and nationally and thus contribute through jobs to value creation and a sustainable welfare society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1295	When we talk about the state of the kingdom, readiness and security are important. Nevertheless, I feel that we take it too much for granted. The representative, after representatives from the Right and the Advance Party, boasts of increased efforts on the police. A police on wheels, they say, is a forward-looking police force. The Gjørv Commission report did not reveal that police districts were necessarily too small. The challenge was that they did not communicate well enough. Nevertheless, the government finds it too good to carry on with enough structural reform. Now it's time to put people and security in front of bureaucrats and structures. The inland police district is the largest in the country's area. Central arrest is on the Hamar. Police personnel are concerned about how preparedness in the region is being scarcely resourced. The government takes the number of people to heart and forgets the geography. Doesn't the security of all the country's inhabitants mean anything, no matter where they live? Let's imagine the following situation: One more night you're up and waiting. Another night you wonder: Where's my girlfriend tonight? How angry is my girlfriend tonight? When police officers in pig-grown streets have to move out because of cases of domestic violence, they are put in a terrible situation: is the situation bad enough, is the crime serious enough to spend more hours driving them to prison, or should they not? Wheeled police are good for prevention, but when situations get serious, the arrest cannot be on wheels. Then districts need funds to mannify for the services and premises they need. The high level of government involvement in the police does not increase preparedness and security when: most of the employment takes place in the Directorate of Police the increased number of posts cannot be filled because there is no means of paying them next year; the money goes to efficiency measures at the expense of free means; the increased appropriations go up in smoke because the expenditure on pensions, which was already in another budget line, is now to be borne by the police. The government's so-called bet and response to the Gjørv Commission's report has failed. If we are to have a real commitment to the police, the Centre Party must take control – with fewer reporting requirements, less detailed management and more resources for prevention and crime-fighting work throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1327	Today's government and some others obviously believe that the answer to everything in society is closures and coercion. With one reform after another, under the guise of claiming to change for the better, the reality is bureaucracy and coercion that the people are totally opposed to. These are reforms with no content whatsoever. Today’s government has committed linguistic abuse of the concept of reform, and step by step they provide additional strength for the centralisation and bureaucracy of Norway. The resources and values you find in the whole country you want, but for the government it's a problem that there are people living here. There is no doubt that, among other things: Regional reform is going to go beyond the provision of services to people. We note that the Storting decision on the coercion of county municipalities was made without proposals for the decentralisation of tasks and the strengthening of regional planning. The new and stronger role of the county councils as a social developer is not designed. On the other hand, the government has proposed to weaken the responsibilities of the county councils. Last week there was a consultation proposing that the water management plans should no longer be adopted as regional plans under the Planning and Building Act. Such disconnection from the Planning and Building Act means that the county councils, which are currently responsible, will no longer have a formal role to play in the work. It is proposed that elected members of the county should now be given responsibility for coordinating the preparatory regional work. This actually shows that the government does not do what they have said they should do, namely to strengthen the regionally elected level of new tasks. This just proves that tasks will be moved from county municipalities. The only thing government does is erase the county boundaries. I'm from Troms, who's now adopted together with Finnmark. I don't know if everyone here is aware of how big North Norway actually is. From the northernmost point of Finnmark to the southernmost point of Troms is 1,075 km. It takes 16 hours to drive a car – yes, it is actually an hour shorter if you choose to drive via Finland. The distances in the north are already large enough. I am therefore pleased that the Central Party has proposed that the states should be able to apply for the adoption of the decision. The reform we actually need in Norway is a trust reform, where the state of Norway again has confidence in those who actually do the job out there, without centralizing and red tape on society, whether it be the police officer, the teacher, the business owner, the local politician, the plumber, the fisherman, the farmer or the nurse.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1342	In order to ensure preparedness, it is important to maintain soil resources. Norway has little food, and it's being built up too much good food. Such a development is not viable. The size has agreed on a target that re-disposal of food soils should be down to 4000 decaves annually by 2020. One should achieve the goal through a gradual reduction in degradation. The government has done little to reach this goal, and developments in recent years have gone in the wrong direction. The majority of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, when dealing with the agricultural notification, concluded that: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Right and the Progressive Party, recalls that the objective of the soil protection strategy is offensive and assumes that the government is following up the concrete proposals of the strategy. The majority believe that the government’s drive forward has been too bad so far.’ Cultivated land is the determining factor for self-sufficiency. Soil protection is promoted in party speeches as important in many municipalities. I don't have a number for all the spokesmen who are concerned about soil protection as a principle, and who think it will stop and prevent degradation. The challenge is when it comes to concrete things. Then the very thing they have is so important that the protection has to give way. We still see decisions on degradation, as in Bergen, where the Fleslands Road was to be a permanent frontier for a long time. Argument was used some years ago to cultivate land that was so-called enclosed to secure a finite limit. Now they will take 1,000 jobs on the other side of the road, and while the plans are just adopted by the city council, new plans will be made to take more cultivated land in the vicinity. I want to remind you that these 1,000 deacons actually are a quarter of all ones going to take a year. Trondheim and Orkdal are other examples where large areas of cultivated land are taken. This shows that the big community must take greater responsibility for soil protection. When developers can show a lot of new jobs, experience is that municipalities can't say no. We need to ensure that the municipalities do not use the time until 2020 to continue with degradation. We're in a hurry with stricter rules. I'm talking to several developers who say they see that it's possible to find other areas of expansion, but as long as it's the builders who spend time and the power to influence the authorities to build up cultivated land, it's too risky to bet in other areas, where the starting price is often slightly higher. The population has a central role to play in reducing the re-disposal of cultivated land. An active follow-up to soil protection from the population is one of the most important measures to reduce the degradation of cultivated land. But then the government must support the statesmen in the work of an active soil protection, and not just support the builders. And then I'm sure there's a lot of builders who find alternate areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1360	Yesterday, we heard partisans Jonas Gahr Støre criticise the regional reform, and he characterized her as a matchmaker. There are also a number of people here today who have criticised regional reform and local reform. The aim of the regional reform is to strengthen the county community as a regional social developer, and it is an important task. Meeting societal challenges in a good way is closely linked to regional and local structures. New tasks are also part of this. However, it is equally important to strengthen cooperation between the State, the county councils and other regional actors whose tasks are important for the development of different parts of the country. The regional reform has not been completed in any way. Changes are coming. Among other things, the government has appointed an expert selection, following a call-up decision here in Stortinget, which will contribute to a new division of tasks between state and county councils, and perhaps municipalities. We all have a responsibility to ensure that the community's resources are managed in the best possible way. It is about the best possible well-being for each krona, said Prime Minister Erna Solberg earlier today. To characterize this work, as the plural here at Stortinget has agreed, as a matchmaker, doesn't think so. An increasing proportion of the population live in district centres, towns and cities, for various reasons. If the municipalities and county councils are to succeed in developing good, attractive and living districts, towns and cities, they must have framework conditions that make this possible. It is about providing the good solutions locally, and then the municipalities must have real freedom to prioritize and organise operations and tasks according to local needs and circumstances. We must be careful to dictate manning standards, ear marking, law enforcement, individual dishes, etc., which prevent holistic local priorities and solutions. Inhabitants must be able to develop their region and municipality with a starting point in local and regional advantages, resources and needs. We need well local self-government, we need local authority, and we need strong municipalities and regions. There are also changes in the municipal structure of time to come. In the municipal bill for 2019, coming to spring, the government, as I understand it, will come back closer to how the work on changes in the municipal structure can be put in place. We're doing well, we've started, but this is in no way a piece of cake – as far as we're concerned – neither at regional or municipal level, as some call it. It's a good start, and it should be nice to follow it up in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1379	Today, the government parties are going down, and that's because it's now the majority to increase the feather quota. This issue, which has been raised as the only issue of equality that is important in Norway, and the only issue of equality on the left has the power to address, is therefore to be raised again on the agenda. There are now more women working full-time than under the red-green. So they don't want to talk about it anymore. There are more children going in kindergarten than under the red-green ones. So they don't want to talk about it. In 2016, 50,000 children were given a cheaper kindergarten with this government, because we believe it is right to give cheaper welfare services to those who need it. So they don't want to talk about it. The proportion of fathers taking leave is increasing under this government. So they don't want to talk about it. Then these four weeks are left as they all stand and fall on the question of equality. Is that credible? And isn't it an objective that families should have freedom of choice, that we should not allow families to fit into some mathematical formula adopted by politicians? No families are the same. No children are equal. No parents are the same. So the fundamental question is where the state is going to interfere, when the state is going to get a word into it. I think we found a good balance on this issue. I see today that the majority in the Chamber disagree. They believe that we, 169 representatives, should sit down at the family kitchen table and not just participate in the parents' discussion about the leave period – we are going to have a veto right over the parents' decision. I disagree. I want to preserve the family as an important institution, and I want to preserve its place in civil society. I thought the Christian People's Party would, too. Earlier today, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold spoke about the importance of the family’s freedom of choice – good. But he limited it to cash support. He could not include the parental leave in that post, because in this case the Christian People's Party has gone to the Workers' Party. In particular, there are two parties with a completely different view on the role of families – but not on parental leave – not on how families should be determined over the period of leave. That's how we move from shoe to shoe, until everything fits into the formula -- our formula, the one that's adopted here, and for which we clapp on our shoulders and say to each other that yes, it was worthy and right. I know how this voting is going to go, but I had hoped for another outcome. I hope that in the future we will continue to preserve the families as an important social institution. But then they have to be allowed to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1394	It was interesting to hear the representative Heggelund's comments now. For the first time, I have heard Heggelund be on this platform and not be surprised at the debate. That's what he tends to be. But now Heggelund has recognized that the government is at its first defeat in this period. That's good, because usually Heggelund tends to be quite interested in talking about the Labour Party's policy. His fascination with the doer of the Workers' Party and the barn surpasses as well as most of it. Yesterday, the representative Heggelund was concerned that the Workers' Party was going to be a clearer opposition party and was not going to conclude so many compromises. It would have been interesting if Heggelund could tell a little about what compromises they were willing to join the Labour and Social Committee during the previous period. All the proposals made by the Workers' Party then became known to be downplayed. The Prime Minister said in his speech here today that the new term ‘sustainable welfare society’ also means combating the major differences. It's interesting that this is coming now, after four years of cutting that hits those who have the least. So now there's a policy to combat the big differences. Now you have to fix what you've been up to in the last four years. It will be exciting to read the state budget tomorrow and see what they actually do to combat the differences that have increased in Norway in recent years. The Labour Party will continue its work to reduce the differences between people. Then we have to provide work for those who can work. This applies not least to our new compatriots. And we have to put the whole country into action. In Uppland, unemployment has not hit as hard as in the rest of the country, but too many are out of work. There is a need for increased attention to be paid to negative population development and job creation. State jobs are centralised and it affects the districts. We saw very clearly the police reform, because now the police districts are so big that the police force is used to drive people to jail in Hamar instead of being in the districts. Our proposal to the Minister of Justice to use the local prisons that were arrested in fish – the proposal did not come from the right party. The languages of the throne and the posts of the members of the government and weaponsmen here in the hall have largely been about subverting expectations. The message is that the party is over. The ideas are gone. There's no way to spend more of your grandchildren' savings. Norway deserves better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1409	The current Vice President of the Christian People's Party Dagrun Eriksen said to our country in February this year: ‘Now it’s almost beginning to become a small pattern that the Right selects government management of family life, childhood and parenthood. It has normally been part of the left-hand side of Norwegian policy.’ She also said, ‘I’ve had some shock-carded experiences. I have debated with Right Tina Bru and received flashbacks for my discussions with Aps Karita Bekkemelm Orheim in the old days." When the government reduced the feather quota from 14 to 10 weeks ago, party leader Knut Arild Hareide said it was the ideal solution. He argued that this gave more freedom of choice to the families and greater flexibility. It is with disappointment that I see today that the Christian People's Party is now leaving this line on the question of how families will allocate the leave period. Although I was used as a scare example of a Workers' Party-like Right with which the Christian People's Party will have difficulties working with, I must say that on this issue it is I and the Right who defend the freedom of choice of the family, and the Christian People's Party that follows the Workers' Party. The Christian People's Party often talks about these issues being value issues. They warn against government management of family life, especially in the discussion of cash support. Why does this suddenly not apply in what is a very important time for a family? I'm for my own father's quota, so I'm going to take this defeat with conviction. But I mean the solution of ten weeks' spring rate is a good balance between helping several fathers choose to be at home with children, and at the same time giving families the opportunity to distribute the leave time as it suits them best. Yes, it's true that a little less fathers take more than 14 weeks' leave now than before the reduction. But it is important to point out that the leave period is primarily for the child. It's still going to be 24 pst. the fathers take out less than the quota, and the whole 10 pst. does not extract the quota at all. When Father doesn't use his entire quota, the family loses those weeks. If the quota is too long, the child will therefore be affected in the utmost consequence. When the Christian People's Party today contributes to the formation of a majority for a proposal from the Workers' Party, it is really across their own policies. The Christian People's Party, as you know, wants to extend the entire leave period, so increase to 14 weeks for father and mother. There are no other parties that are calling for it. The consequence of contributing to this majority is therefore that the quota will be extended to 14 weeks at the expense of the common time. In general, this would mean one month less leave for mother, who is in the family who uses the common weeks most, or one month less for the child, if father does not use the allowance. There's nothing in today's system that prevents father from taking out more than ten weeks' leave if the family wants it. It is possible that not all families always choose exactly what we politicians think is best, but there should be a limit to how far you are willing to go to force families to choose what we think is more sensible. It should go where it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1434	In the last four years, South Africa has experienced a historic investment. I would say that no prior periods have given better counting for Agder than the Advance Party and the Right's first period of government. Roads are being built. We've got a new airport, new prisons, a better community economy and a new research lab at the UiA. Although the Workers' Party is trying to blackmail everything that the Advance Party and the Right have done, the inhabitants have seen this formidable bet and have chosen to vote on it. In Agder actually got the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party 80 pst. of the magnification mandates, and that is probably the windiest bench in Norway. It's a result of a blue majority that has been committed to growth and development, and that has faith in the future. I know that the Progress Party will ensure full deployment of E18 and E39 throughout Agder, continue the fight against taxes and taxes and make companies more competitive. The South is with this election result in safe hands. The challenges of society are many, and in order to solve all the problems without burdening ordinary people with new taxes and taxes, we need to think smarter. We need to focus more on technology and research in the future, to create new labour markets and to be able to solve our tasks in a smarter way. Education and technology belong together. We have to have a school that gives all students mastery and learning. We need to have higher education that gives adults the skills to develop technology. In areas where private players have gained considerable leeway, a lot of technology has already developed that we all profit from, but we are looking for research in welfare technology. I think it has a clear connection with the fact that we have too few welfare professionals in the care service. For too long, government has been slowing down the development of its own technology. The need is great. New technologies are already available and will revolutionize the expensive way we organise care services today. However, the commercial market needs to be opened up so that welfare technology becomes available to ordinary people. We must have more entrepreneurs who dare to bet on this, and we must never be afraid that people will make money. We have to be afraid people won't make money. Training institutions must actually move around and at all times adapt to the labour market's need for competence. Technological development can go unconveniently quickly, and that is why we have to prepare for it. A nurse trained today may have to deal in three years with digital sensors in nursing homes, computer systems and welfare technologies that we do not know about today. Artificial intelligence will take over much of the paperwork in hospitals and provide faster and more accurate diagnosis, and health professionals must be trained to handle it. That's why I think technology has to go into several study directions because the future will require it. We have great opportunities, but we have to play with those who have ideas, who want to bet, and we have to play with business, who are going to create the jobs of the future. I am delighted to see which university will advance first in the series to focus on the development of new technologies in health, care and welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1452	It has been interesting to hear how busy the Progress Party and the Right have been by the Labour Party in this debate. Last night I heard Tina Bru, and then I thought she was so close that it was hacked before she joined the Labour Party – exciting enough. It's nice that the government is occupied with the largest opposition party, and with such a hairy balance they're going to dance with the next four years in order to be in charge of government, it's clearly important to listen to the opposition. Now it remains to see if the government becomes something more humble and will actually listen. Erna Solberg compared the financial crisis and the oil price drop today – interestingly enough. The financial crisis was just about securing the banks, she said, but it actually hit the international financial situation very hard. Not least, many people lost their jobs, and many countries, industries and employees were affected. Many got high unemployment. What was interesting then was that there was a red-green government, and Jens Stoltenberg and Kristin Halvorsen delivered many important package measures to keep the wheels running. They even went through the gold card with a goal of having the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. In the countries around us, they didn't do that job very well. So we got very strengthened out of it. In the case of the oil price drop, it was not the government's fault that the oil price went down, nor that the oil price went up. But what happened? What was special about that? Well, it was that the offshore industry and the maritime sector were hit, and it was the South and West that knew it the hardest. The shipowners had to lay expensive and modern ships to berth, the shipyards lacked new contractors, and the supplier industry met harsh thanks. What did the government do? Well, it had to be forced to kneel by the parties in order to make changes to the rules and to the permitting legislation. They finally made changes, and they brought a package of measures of 6 billion. kr to go to the South and West. Only half came to the south and west. In More and Romesdal, we got 147 million. kr of that package. Otherwise, the Prime Minister's speech has changed, but the government has not lifted the clustering rate, they have not lifted the eco-technology regime, and they are now transferring the climate fund in Enova. It's possible it's BIA and SkattenFUNN, which is a success, which should be what saves business all the way. The Prime Minister spoke of digitisation. That's very good. The fourth industrial revolution is now here. That train goes fast, and it goes within many areas. Both defence, health, the public sector, education, business and the entire working life are being rocked. We have great expectations that the government budget presented tomorrow will have a good response to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1467	If there is one area in which the political debate has finally moved over the last few years, it is in the field of drug policy. The war on drugs, where police power is the main instrument against all use of drugs other than alcohol, has been a kind of adopted truth across large parts of the world, although it has been obvious to many that it has worked against its purpose. Fortunately, more and more people now realise, both in Norway and in the rest of the world, that drugs must be a health policy issue, not a justice policy issue, because we see clearly that the tough ban line has stuck to many countries for decades and has not given the results they wanted. On the contrary, it has helped to destroy lives rather than save lives — for drug addicts in consumer countries, but also for the victims of drugrelated crime in producer countries, in transit countries along the trafficking routes and through organised crime where drugs are traded. The left has been giving priority to drug care for a number of years. We have built rocks on rocks and helped to move the debate in a more progressive direction, where the goal has always been to give people who are struggling, the help they need, and minimise the adverse effects of drug use. We have been given injection rooms in Oslo, and now recently in Bergen, with the Left in the City Council, after a change in the law presented in its time by the then Justice Minister Odd Einar Dørum. We have ensured that drug addicts can receive drug-assisted treatment and are constantly expanding this possibility, and we have ensured that we are less likely to use prison sentences for possession of user doses and rather rates of treatment and prevention under the direction of healthcare. Now we have to take major steps forward towards a more humane drug policy. The time to make radical changes in drug policy is now. Most parties have different drug policies in their programmes for this period than they had in the previous period, and on this basis it must be possible to launch a comprehensive reform of drug policy. Some interventions can be made quickly, such as opening up heroin-assisted treatment to the heaviest addicts and opening up drug use other than heroin to drug injection rooms. We need to be able to remove quickly the pointless rules that prevent doctors from printing medical cannabis to patients who would benefit from it, and strengthen the promise of treatment within 24 hours in the drug field by the bourgeois parties. Other changes in drug policy require more work. We now mean we need a NOW on the drugs policy. There is no doubt that part of the mandate of a sample to look at the whole of the drug policy must be to propose a model for the regulation of the least harmful drugs. We have a lot of international experience from different places in the world. Now it must be possible to carry out a prejudicial review of different ways of doing this also in Norway. A regulated market would be able to impose strict standards of quality and content in a completely different way from today, and not least to remove the sale from the street and in more orderly forms. All drug use can be harmful, and there are no parties that want to increase drug use in society. But we need to think new, not least to combat the entire value chain from producer countries, via transit countries and the organised crime here – for the benefit of those who are currently addicted to alcohol and who need a completely different way of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1490	Today, there is the International Girl Day, the search light is set on the challenges that girls around the world face. In Norway, we can be proud of how far equality has come, but the fight has not fought itself, nor will it do so in time to come. There has been no more equality after four years with the Right Party and the Advance Party of Government. Too little is done to combat violence in close relationships, the paper is cut off, temporary posts are set as a good example of integration into working life, and the really important steps taken to combat involuntary temporary jobs have not been taken. These are areas that we know hit women hardest, these are areas that we know make it harder and inhibit equality between men and women. During the Prime Minister’s speeches here today, it could be said that the Right believes that this is a modern way of working life. But there's nothing modern about commuting between two jobs, it's not modern when you can't establish yourself in the housing market because the bank shakes its head over your temporary position. And it's not modern at all when it's not as natural that dad is home with the kids as that mom is. Those who have the most from before have also got the most with this government, while those who have received the least have been left with constant suggestions about cutting while the money for the next generation is spent up. The government does not facilitate a more inclusive and equal society either in the case of men or women, poor or rich or those with long education or those with cards. The right-hand party government is weaker than ever. The Workers' Party will work to ensure that workers' rights are strengthened. We will continue to work for an inclusive working life, we will work to ensure that whole and permanent jobs become normal again in our working life, and that for the future we can still be proud of how far we have come in our society – that we do not doubt when action was required, and that we did not rest in our own excellence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1503	Despite the fact that I have a dialect from far north and east, I have had the pleasure of living in Oslo for ten years. I have stayed at Marienlyst, Frogner, Tøen, Lindeberg – and now at Veitvet. For every T-Bahn stop I've moved east, the life expectancy, the average income and participation in the activity school have fallen. Oslo is a classed city, and when the differences increase in Norway, they increase most in cities. Nearly 80,000 Oslo citizens are poor. In Greenland, six out of ten young people are growing into poverty, while in the Grorud valley there are too many young people outside the labour market. It is not these who benefit from the government's tax relief to the richest. It must be a national responsibility in close cooperation with the City Council to reduce the differences in Oslo. There is a need for increased funding for territorial commitments, a power to tackle child poverty, a fairer housing policy, a better integration policy and innovation in school policy. Cities — as opposed to small areas — provide opportunities for segregated government with large differences according to where people live. Oslo’s segregation is due to an unfair housing market driven by a tax system that rewards those on the inside. Unless we adopt a fairer housing policy, the low-paid and the poorer will still be the losers. Oslo is, as a capital should be, a diverse city, but at a time when the differences are increasing and immigration is high, it becomes essential that these two do not work together in a negative direction. Therefore, it is so worrying that it has been cut in both Norwegian training, Jobsjansen, free half-day space in the kindergarten and the important Groruddal bet – because good and long-term integration policies have not been prioritised by this government for the past four years. The divided city is also reflected in school, and the problems of Oslo School have not come overnight. They've evolved for too long. Right market liberalist governance through price financing and so-called free choice of schools has created A and B schools in Oslo. Therefore, there is every reason to warn when the Right now has announced that their Oslo model will be transferred to other states. I am proud of the bet from the Red-Green City Council, with SV in mind, at free activity school. In more and more schools, all children now participate in the game and the learning. It's something to transfer to other states. Everyone loses on large differences, which is why SV proposes to increase child-restraint and increase teacher density. We are proposing to increase the contribution to regional development and a fairer housing policy. It will create a better city and a better Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1516	Now that we've reached a new period of growth, we're all a little excited about the new everyday life and what ambitions this government has for Norway in the years to come. We have a government that has lost confidence and less upliftment through elections, and that cannot rely on a cooperation agreement, alternating between the Christian People's Party and the Left. We don't yet know how the Right and Advance Party will solve the problems in the new everyday life through the Stortinget. Now, for almost two days, we've heard the Right from this pulpit spend a lot of its time telling us in the Labour Party what we mean, instead of using the pulpit to tell the voters what ambitions they have on behalf of the country and those who live in Norway. I'm from the Orkdal in the South Trøndelag, which is now going to join Meldal, Agdenes and a third of the municipality of Snillfjord. The new Orkland municipality has visions on behalf of its inhabitants, and everyone is obviously excited about how the everyday life of the big municipality becomes. Tomorrow, this government will present its government budget for 2018. Based on the election campaign conducted by the Right and the Advance Party, everyone has a legitimate hope and desire for more money for well-being, not least the cohesion of social and economic differences in our society. It's in the municipalities people live and live their lives, whether it's in Finnmark, Trøndelag or here in Oslo. Will municipalities get better time and more money to hire more adults in kindergartens, so there will be three children per adult with a good professional background? Will local authorities have increased transfers to employ more teachers at the nursery, so that more children can read, write and calculate in a good way and complete the school satisfactorily, both individually and for the family? The Labour Party decided that we wanted 3,000 more teachers in school to strengthen exactly these areas. Will municipalities get more money to hire even more people in the care of the elderly, so that those in need of health care get a decent care for the elderly? The Labour Party wanted a quality reform in this election campaign, which could contribute to more people being employed either at home or in an institution, so that everyone would have a worthy and secure old age. The working party is concerned that welfare services should be developed and improved, not reversed. Now, when the paper is increased from 10 to 14 weeks, it's not about to reverse, it's primarily about going back to what it once was, and it's about strengthening our welfare services around our country. Thus, the Workers' Party will be a constructive party in opposition in the years to come, also in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1527	Before this debate started, 31 proposals were submitted by representatives in this Chamber. It was the jam well, so Stortinget has some things to work with even after the budget work of the harvest has been avoided, because in the throne speech there is not a single specific matter notified to Stortinget this session. Several good objectives are presented: the desire to strengthen the working line, to meet climate obligations, to strengthen integration, to renew labour skills and to strengthen the growth capacity of the economy. I don't think anyone in this room disagrees with this, perhaps subject to Stortings-FrP in terms of climate obligations. But where are the concrete measures to achieve this? Where are the new grips, the necessary reforms? It may almost seem as if it came as a surprise to the government that it was given a parliamentary basis to continue. Then it was also on hanging hair. The census is a new confirmation that we have a government that describes the problems, but does not feel responsible for finding political action that can solve the problems. So it's going to be all grayer than blue. But what is worse is that we are discussing the government's political programme for this session without knowing whether it is the government's political programme. The Prime Minister confirmed this morning that the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party said yesterday that the two government parties did not agree on the political platform for the coming period. The two government parties will discuss further, including with the Left, the political basis for cooperation in the political platform of the government and also what kind of government it will be – the Right and the Advance Party, or will the Left also join? In practice, we have a kind of business ministry. The question is, why is it not clear before the government meets the Stortinget? In 2009, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV explained the platform for continued government cooperation before the throne debate. What is clear is that the elections have made the parliamentary situation much more demanding for the government. Not so nice, then, that the speakers of the Right have so strongly emphasized the desire for a constructive opposition and so emphasised the political beauty of the compromise. It almost seems as if Right-wing representatives believe it is the Workers' Party's responsibility to keep the government in power. It's not. It is the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party in this Chamber who are responsible for ensuring a majority in government policy, and the government is responsible for leading and proposing a policy that invites cooperation rather than conflict and division. That's the last thing this government has done too often in the period we have behind us, through both rhetoric and politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1536	It was with pleasure that I heard and registered the post of Christian People's Party representative Tore Storehaug in the debate yesterday on the balancing of network rentals. On our power bills, we pay as well-known two things: we pay for the power we use, and we pay to get it where we need it. The power is the competition to deliver, but the cable into the house or business is what is known as just one of them, and we are therefore in a monopoly situation. I'm aware that this is strictly regulated, but it's a paradox that those who live in one of the most powerful states, like Sogn and Fjordane, to use the representative of Storehaug's own homeland, pay most to get the power back home, while here we are now, or for example. Sarpsborg in my own home country, for that matter, is among those who pay least. It is all about the number of subscriptions and the length of the line network for which each network provider is responsible. All of this adds up to a competitive disadvantage for the industry in the districts and unfair differences for household subscribers. We even have municipalities where there are two different network owners, and where the municipality's inhabitants will experience a great deal of difference in network rental. This injustice has been seen by the Centre Party for a long time and therefore also the job to smooth out. That's why I'm very pleased that the Christian People's Party is now showing signs of wanting to turn around, so that it can once again become a majority of a balancing system for network rental, as the Center Party wants. This also shows that the outcome of the elections opens up opportunities for a new policy, a policy that believes in all of Norway, a policy that distorts policy in a direction based on equality and justice, regardless of whether you live in Sarpsborg, Rakkestad, Gloppen or Bergen. Finally, I hope this also carries the command that the Christian People's Party will be with us and fight for the digital all-man rights. The Prime Minister spoke a lot about robotization, digitisation and efficiency. It's all right, but it's got to benefit everyone. In the nations today, we can see that we are very close. Digitalisation and modernisation must not be the same as centralisation. 100 pst. broadband coverage is one of the tools to ensure that we continue to use the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1547	It was with some wonder, but with a strengthened expectation I heard the Prime Minister this morning when she said that ‘we shall never give up people’, and further in fine words spoke of the weakest, those who need adapted measures. I sincerely hope that this also applies in the case of professional participation. All the parties to the Storting will agree on the need to strengthen professional participation, including among those with the greatest labour market challenges. But neither the government nor the support parties have helped to improve the situation, rather the opposite. When the Progress Party got the Minister of Labour of the Solberg Government, there was no strengthening of the sector, despite the promises of the Advance Party before the elections. Robert Eriksson proposed to the government the simple solution of entrusting the VTA measures to the municipalities. It has not been better after the right of the minister. While the 2017 budgetary agreement did lead to an increase of 300 action places, the increase in action places was not funded. The new regulation on labour market measures, which came into force in 2015, also removed many of the labour market measures and opened up competition for most of the remaining ones. This cannot be described as taking account of the weakest. So this is the legacy after four years of the Right Party and the Advance Party in government – rather than tax relief than welfare and activity. This does not warn of a good treatment for this group of people, despite the Prime Minister's signal this morning. Because long queues of disabled people want to contribute to the value creation. In this situation, the Labour Party will strengthen the role of Nav in both the dissemination and follow-up of people on action. The Labour Party will increase the number of places of action and schemes where people with disabilities are given the opportunity to participate in the labour market. We want to increase the number of permanent job placements, so-called VTA, and strengthen Nav's follow-up of people under the VTA action in the ordinary sector. All labour market measures should remain a State task. The Workers' Party does not conduct a policy of surrender. We've never done that and work for everyone has been our goal for all of our years. The objective is not achieved in words, but with a planned increase in funded action sites, the strengthening of hubs and the preservation of growth and labour market enterprises. If safe work is to be done for all, it requires a particular focus on those who are far from the ordinary working life, because Norway can do better than the current government provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1560	Being part of that 162. Storing is an honor. I feel proud to represent my own party and my home country at a stake that has a record high proportion of women. Equality has been important for Norwegian policies and the development of the society we have today. We wouldn't come here today without being an equal society. It's a confession we have to continue to raise, especially in the work on women's and girls' rights. Today is the International Girl Day. The world over, girls' rights are being broken and set aside. Girls are more than boys under family control and out of education to take care of family and less siblings. Women also less control their own sexuality and future. Norway is in a special position internationally. Therefore, it is important that we continue to work internationally to promote matters that are important to us and that contribute to creating sustainable societies outside our neighbourhoods. The right to education of girls and boys is an important work in which Norway must continue to participate. It is a contribution that is an investment in the future, and it is a contribution from Norway that promotes sustainable development in other countries. All boys and girls deserve free education that also has good quality. This will continue to raise the importance of Norway, including internationally. I would like to congratulate all the representatives here on the day of the girl.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1577	Before the election campaign, during the election campaign, and not least in yesterday's and today's debate, there are several people who have been in the field of district policy and the way forward. When I listen to any of this, I can almost get the impression that someone thinks that this government has centralized so much that there are no people left where I am from. But the fact is that there are more people living both in the West and in the North now than when the previous government crashed the country. The fact is that daily records are also recorded in exports of the world’s best seafood from the Nordic countries and Norway. It is invested like never before, and people are also employed along the coast. In 2016, for example, exports of seafood from Northern Ireland increased by over 30 p.m. to a value of 13.9 billion. kr. Until 2017, Norway has exported seafood for a total of 69 billion. kr, and a new export record will be set at the end of this year. In other words, it's going well because there's a policy that facilitates this. Another topic that has been raised in the debate is unemployment in general and young people falling out of work. It is an important theme that requires an active policy. Here I believe that Norwegian seafood can actually be part of the solution. The potential for growth in maritime food is enormous, and therefore the main focus of policy-making in the future must continue to be the creation of full-year, profitable jobs. It will provide opportunities for young people as well as old people, because at the end of the day it is best for everyone if they can have a safe, profitable, full-year job to go to. We have to create more of them, and here the seafood represents an opportunity for that. If we look at the glass ball and base analyses from NTNU, the aquaculture industry alone can employ as many as 100,000 annual works in 2050. And then, of course, the whitefish industry comes in as well. But to get there, we need to be willing to use new areas, develop framework conditions and regulations from where we are today, where today's regulations in both white fish and red fish are necessarily not tomorrow's solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1589	It sounds banal to have holes in the CV, but there are many people who are struggling to get work experience. Some have been in prison, others have diseases or diagnoses that have prevented them from getting a job. For whatever reason, there are many who fall out of work. This can lead to poor self-esteem for those concerned, and it is one of several causes of child poverty. A friend of mine has some medical challenges and spent 22 years from joining the military until he got into work. Temporary employment gave him the opportunity to get his first job, which was not a purely work measure. The work measures he perceived as unworthy because they did not give him challenges at his level. The government has opened up temporary employment precisely because this is a door opener for people with holes in the CV. Temporary employment allows the outside person to show that he belongs within. It allows them to gain experience without experience, and it allows companies to test out new services that they are not sure of will be profitable in the long run. We'll never give up on people, said the Prime Minister this morning. Right will have an inclusive working life where everyone will have the opportunity to participate. We want to lower the threshold of participation in working life for people with disabilities. We want better cooperation between employers, Nav, staffing, management companies and other action providers to get more people into work. Work eagle man, it's called. The person who comes out of work and into work is strengthened in his self-confidence and quality of life. Right wants a society with opportunities for everyone. This is not just a social responsibility. There is also a responsibility for business to take part in, but business must also have the prerequisites to give people with holes in the CV a chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1602	What I may have thought to have been the most joyful in this throne debate is all those who have made an excellent debut on the pulpit of the Great Government. I think that is promising for the future political debates. But otherwise, the political debate has confirmed what our leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, initially said that there was little political substance in the speech of the throne that we are discussing. There is a lot of evidence that the government may have abdicated in politics, but they should have: they cultivate rhetoric. We've seen a booklet here in the hall called Right Retoric, and they've stuck to it. Perhaps the most creative thing they've come up with, the sloganmakers in the Right, on which they've been running, talking after speeches, is that the Workers' Party should be irresponsible. Yes, it would have taken place if the Workers' Party were irresponsible. There's probably as much reason to fear it as the pope was going to come out on the Dayrevy tonight and tell me he's become a Muslim. No, that's where you can trust the Workers' Party. I think it is a low-level policy that even the Prime Minister is trying to create that fear. The Norwegian government is familiar to me the only government in the world that has a large opposition party that every year, when they have submitted the state budget, in the last four years, has actually spent less oil money than the government has used – that is, more responsible than the government. It should be appreciated by the government when the country is in difficult situations, but instead we are met by a rhetoric that tries to create the impression that we should be irresponsible. In the same category, I would say it's when the Prime Minister and others express that the Workers' Party is against the obligation of activity for social welfare recipients. They use the Drammen as an example for everything. The drama has fulfilled its duty of activity because the previous government, with me as the Council of State, suggested in 2009 that it would be possible to claim activity when paying social assistance. When it is then produced that there is something the Workers' Party is against, I think it is a low in rhetoric. We've heard that we're going to get less differences. In that case, there's a new course. We've heard that we're going to have sustainable well-being. I hope that means that more people are going to pay taxes, and that people are going to be willing to pay taxes, but it can also mean cutting welfare. It's going to be exciting to see what's going on with a government that has a weakened parliamentary basis. It'll be exciting times. On the part of the Labour Party, we are traditionally responsible for helping to have a majority for a political course different from that of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1615	Let me first congratulate Erna Solberg on having delivered the most inconsequential speech a Prime Minister has ever delivered from this pulpit. Giving an entire speech without mentioning a single political action is actually a achievement. As an explanation of why, she said in her reply with Jonas Gahr Støre that they would not drown the throne speech in action and in big shots. Instead, the government drowns the throne and the throne debate in descriptions and self-evidentness. But if we look behind the rhetoric and behind the fine words, we see a government that says one thing, but makes it sting the opposite. For example, you say beautifully that you want a sustainable welfare society, but the legacy after four years with the Right and the Advance Party in government are weakened opportunities. The government has prioritised tax cuts and made Norway more oil dependent. They talk nice about the work line, but many young people are out of work, and we see a falling share in work. They talk about small differences in society, but politics has consistently increased the differences in society. And they're talking about the fight against work-life crime, but they haven't prioritised the area. The result is that the crime of working life has become more serious and more complex, and that it is entering increasingly new industries. We've been trying for a long time to figure out what the effect of government's policy on the crime of working life has been, but we don't get any answers. We're going to continue the fight for a serious, organized and safe working life for everyone during the period, and now the government no longer has the majority it had before summer. There are more opportunities for us in Stortinget to do the job that the government is not doing. The first step can already be taken today by voting in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal to amend the Working Environment Act in order to limit the use of fixed-term rentals, just to ensure a safe working life. The government and we who are in the hall have asked for and gained the confidence of the people. One thing is to present self-esteem – it gets the government to assess whether it wants to do it. Worse it is if you present a policy but don't implement it. But it's bad when you say one thing, but make it the opposite. Experience from other countries shows that it is a dangerous path if people lose faith that politicians stand for what they promise, and it actually turns out that they stand for the very opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1630	Bullying at school – there are three words that make it in the stomach of most people who hear them, three words that mean that children and young people live in a everyday life in which no children and young people should have to live, a working day in fear and fear, a working day in loneliness, a working day without a good community, for some a working day with violence, for many a everyday life with repeated indignities and insults, three words that also appear to be a nightmare for all parents. This is far from the everyday life we want for our children and young people. All children and young people deserve a safe and good school day, a good learning environment in school. Several governments have worked to bring the bullying problem to life. A lot is also done in municipalities and counties, and many municipalities, e.g. My home municipality, Lørenskog, has established an advisory and supportive team against bullying. Unfortunately, we see that this fight is far from over. More than 50,000 students report bullying twice or more times a month. It's almost a year old school student. It just means that we have to do more. The government presented a comprehensive anti- bullying policy in the previous period with a number of concrete measures. We have reinforced the prevention work, we have ensured that it will be useful for children and young people to say from, and we have made clear the responsibility of the municipalities and the counties. The government is clear that bullying is not going to happen, and we've got a code that has zero tolerance against bullying. The student's experience of the school environment is crucial. Any suspicion of bullying shall be notified and followed up by the principal with specific measures. Students should receive help until they are safe and sound in school. Schools and municipalities which do not comply with County Council decisions may be fined daily. An important change is the introduction of an activity obligation to compensate for the bureaucratic decision-making obligation, and it ensures that schools act quickly and correctly when a student is not well off in school. And it's punishable to break the obligation of activity. It is essential that both parents and children have good knowledge of what they are entitled to do, and not least who they can contact. It is heartwarming to read and hear about all children and young people who get their childhood ruined – not to mention all the cases that end up with someone taking their own life, it is simply a tragedy. Even those who get through school are in many cases marked by bullying for the rest of their lives. I'm glad we've put in place a new anti- bullying policy. As a new member of the Education and Research Committee, I look forward to being involved in the work against bullying. There are many major and important tasks that lie within this committee, but this is definitely one of the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1647	The government acts as a Bør Børson in the movie. As he learned urban languages, the Right has learned honorary words – as ‘Community’ and ‘collective’. But the policy is hard to see. In fact, it is not different from what we see through the windows – gray and impermeable. When the Workers' Party appeared in the previous period, it was criticized. But now that the Right has learned the word "collective", yes, then it will be gone. The truth is, this government is getting weaker now than ever. If the election of the mayor was an example of acting together, we know what we're waiting for. It's like there's too little difference, but there's a policy that increases them. But that's what the Right can – say something and do something else. The Labour Party is clear and responsible in its policy. More in jobs, a more active industrial policy, more teachers, ambitious climate goals, better integration and more international cooperation for people on the run are some of our responsible issues. We're even so responsible that we want things done, we don't just want to talk about them. Tomorrow it will be a historic day when we will see for the first time how the Solberg Government assesses its draft budget in a gender perspective. When the Stortinge treated the gender equality message last year, we were given a majority in order for the government to provide a supplement to the state budget each year that provides an equality assessment of the state budget as a whole. This is new in the year, and many people have thought that equality goes in reverse, so this may not be the funniest part of the work the government has done. The parties to the Government then also voted against this proposal. Now the expectations are that the government will fulfill the Storting order in this area. The government also chose to remove the obligation to make presentations, for which they were given a majority. It’s like a teacher says to his students: ‘It’s important that you do the homework, but I’m not going to check if you’ve done it.’ But the majority of people would have something different: the government has to reintroduce the obligation to report, after a ‘free’ period in 2018. So, to Stefan Heggelund, there's more equality work to do in the government and in the right party. It's about not resting on their laurels.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1658	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all the voters who have voted on the Left, and not least on the bourgeois project, who have threatened to rule the country in a predictable and proper way and have not entered into a trial project with two other parties, which has now entered the Stortinget. I don't think it would have been the right direction for the country. If you flush six to seven months back, maybe not so many people believed it would be a bourgeois, non-socialist, majority, but it did. During the elections there were also some forces that would not be particularly well left. There were running notes in some places in the country. False flyers were made with our logo and with information and messages that we hadn't made. These are forces we've had to fight against as a small party of small resources. In addition, a social media campaign was launched with videos that also had a false message – about what a vote on the Left would contribute to, etc. Despite all this and all the measurements that showed that it was going to be really bad with the Left, that we were going to get far below the barrier line, we were able to cross the barrier line. Despite the statistics that we're under at every other election, we've done the historic thing to cross the barrier two consecutive choices, and we've managed to create a predictable government. The mandate given to us by the voters will enable us to manage in a proper and good manner. There have been some speculations that among our voters there are some who have given tactical votes. I don't think there are so many tactical voices. The basics of the Left are still liberal and moderate voters who want a new direction for the country of Norway, in particular focusing on school, environment, transport and the issues facing the Left. Then you can always talk about who got what amounts of tactical voices, and that tactical voices don't exist on the socialist side. I would assume that some have voted tactically on parties on the other side as well. But regardless of that: those who may have voted for us for tactical reasons have also voted for them to want a predictable, bourgeois government. We promised the voters through the election that it would help us to create, and we're going to help create it over these four years as well. These are big and small things that we can enjoy from the previous period. I'm going to draw myself up again to address some of the issues, in particular to underline how well we have made our national transport plan, not just for Asker and Bærum and Akershus, the county that I represent, but for the whole country of Norway. The efforts we made in the previous period, we intend to continue and strengthen in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1671	We have put behind us a campaign with many pointed debates – perhaps so too. But for some in this debate, I have to say it seems as if the election campaign is not completely over. I particularly noticed in the post of the representative Wilkinson of SV, who with great moral pathos was really indignant about the government's alleged cut in care money. Several others have also been involved in the same – if not equally indignant. The reason for this alleged cut is that the government has made proposals for changes that will give an estimated annual extra cost of about 560 million. kr – i.e. more than a doubling of the cost of care. Up to 9,000 more children and families get it. Then the Right is the first to agree that we also need to be able to discuss the downsides when we make adjustments to different arrangements, although the changes in total increase government expenditure. But it's an example of political laxity, a criticism that goes on autopilot, when you almost accuse the government of attacking the weakest in society to find money for tax cuts, when the starting point for the debate is that the cost of a welfare system is more than double. I don't like a way to argue where you're constantly questioning each other's intentions. My approach is at least that all the representatives of all the parties in this room go to work every day because they want to do the best for the country. Then I have to say that on this matter of care allowance, the approach to the Christian People's Party was much more constructive, a much better approach to the debate, where good solutions are sought. That, I think, is also an approach that is going to bear more political fruits in the next four years than the approach in which to consistently blacken them on the opposite side of the political wing and question the intentions of other politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1684	Security has been up like an important bearer in this persuasion debate, but it may seem as if the government is taking very easy on security in one area, and it's on food security. We have a very interesting and important political debate in Norway in the coming years on what kind of food production we are going to have, and what should be the main pillars of policy in Norway. It is interesting to see that more and more people report in the discussion on the importance of food policy. Among other things, the Swedish Defence Research Institute clearly states that we cannot be sure at all that the large feed imports from Brazil, on which we now rely, will continue in the years we have ahead of us. They are clear that the fight for soya, the fight for feed resources, is going to be tougher, and that, among other things, a country that China could have strong strategic interests in purchasing the same resources that we rely on. The alternative is, of course, to strengthen our own security and strengthen our own Norwegian food production based on the resources we have here in Norway. Then it's interesting, for example. to see how reality evolves in a state like my home country, Hedmark. There we have important grain areas that are now under heavy pressure. Over the last few years, grain areas have become degraded, and instead, grass. This weakens the overall self-sufficiency when grass is laid elsewhere in District Norway, among other things. in the Prime Minister's own part of the country, in the West, or in the districts of the North. On the contrary, we must pursue an active policy and build on the best that the Norwegian agricultural model has given us: employment throughout Norway, safe food and not least value creation that benefits other groups of workers, whether it be carpenters, electricians or mechanics. Therefore, this is also a question of centralising activity and jobs in Norway, as well as the safety of our food, which we all have in common. It is also interesting to see that other associated groups — the health system and not least those interested in public health — see the importance of an active policy to provide good and healthy food. We know that antibiotic resistance is going to be the biggest health problem in the world in a few years. Then we have to make sure that we still have the opportunity to eat both safe eggs and safe meat in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1697	As I said earlier, over the last period we have overfilled the national transport plan of the previous government. A railway that expired, we've picked it up again, and we've closed the gap. Then we have had the major reforms, which the other parties have proved to be opposed to, among other things. the road carrier. In between, some of them have been opposed, and sometimes they have been too, depending on what suited them, but we know that the road company was a right priority to do in the last period. We have also helped to bring about a real rail reform that will take us into the future. In the national transport plan that we created, there are now 50 pst. State funding of both the Fornebubanen and the Bergen City Railway, Oslo metro tunnel, but also that Ullandhaug and the Lower Rome line solution can be rolled in when necessary and possible. But there are also other major projects: it's the train tunnel in Oslo, the Ringerix Railway, intercity, etc., and not least that through NTP we've committed ourselves to removing the freight poverty that was just right under the previous government. I think the NTP is very good. It's going to sew together the country of Norway. I think we need to bet on infrastructure, and over this next four-year period, the Left is going to contribute to just the railway, the collective share, getting its legitimate share. Then it's big and small things that all the big business representatives are burning for. For the last four years, I've worked hard for swimming training in kindergarten, and it's because our kids are the kids in the Nordic region who are the worst able to save their own lives. While the proportion of swimmers in Nordic countries is over 90 p.p., the proportion of teenagers in Norway is only 50 p.p. Only 50 pst. of our teenagers are able to take the swim button. We have taken a small lift for that and started with a test scheme with swimming training in the nursery. We've reinforced that over the last four years, thanks to the commitment of the Left. We hope that there will be a full-scale scheme for all children in Norway, and that you will learn to swim from kindergarten. Another little heartchild I've had is freedom of religion. It was a small commitment that started here at the Storting three years ago. We gathered some country's parliamentarians, signed a declaration at the Nobel Peace Centre. It has now become a global movement, and we have anchoring in over 60 countries. Last year's big conference brought together over 100 parliamentarians from 60 countries, and Angela Merkel opened the conference. We have had good support from the current government, which – with Børge Burnde at the head – has contributed positively, and this was the theme of this year's Trygve Lie Symposium, also in New York. I am very pleased that all the parties in the Storting have been part of this religious freedom group at Stortinget. I think we can agree on one thing, and that is that we have to hold back the human rights that apply to Europe and to the world, that they are universal. It's what this Greatness is going to help raise even in the period that's coming, I feel pretty safe about it, and I look forward to working with all parties across politics to help reinforce the efforts we've had in the last three years, right in the field of religious freedom globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1710	This debate of the throne has some clear features. Right is more busy telling the Workers' Party what the Workers' Party actually means than telling the right-wing voters what the Right is talking about. We've heard a drumming speech that's been smoother than he's been blue. Visions and plans are pretty little of it. What we get, on the other hand, is a description of that future is going to be demanding. But we get solutions, and we get suggestions or measures. In the Labour Party, we want more people to work, for example: through an activity reform for young people, so that more people are able to work, and not least a skills reform to get more people into the labour market, but also to keep more people working for the years to come. We need everyone to beg, we can't afford anything else. We heard little about measures and warnings in the throne, but at least that is our expectation of the budget tomorrow. We are content to create before we can share. Then we'll need more jobs and fewer social security. The representative, Tina Bru, boasted that one might believe her was Karita Bekkemelm in debates on gender equality policy. It's a statement I can't stand behind. We're not all social democrats. A social democrat understands the problem and manages to do something about it, while one from the Right – as we have now experienced for two days with this debate – can understand the problem, and they may be able to describe it, but the will to do something about it is absent. It's not just the spring quota that's an example of it, where one tells us that one wants more equality and more possibilities to fathers. The whole number of thrones is an example of that. With the Right and the Progress Party's pace to make sure that dad gets more opportunities to have time with his kids, it's actually going to take 400 years before fathers take 14 weeks of paperwork in Norway. It may be that the Right Party and the Progress Party are satisfied with that pace, but we are not. Equality can't be expected, kids' needs can't be expected, and I'm very happy that the majority seems to be going for an increase in the spring quota – for Norway can do better than this. And so are the voters. The right-hand forward party rule is weaker than before. The working party will make proposals in a range of areas – to get more people working, to complete further education, and to have a strong public health care. Already today, there will be a few possibilities to vote on proposals to limit the entry rate. We like to cooperate with others for the good of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1721	It was an impressive effective president. I saw that there were again several speakers on the list when I asked for the word a second ago – and then I got the word. There is something wonderful about this debate, because there are some issues that have gone on and on again. This applies, inter alia, to: the discussion on how to share Norway. According to the representative, what is the point of creating a region containing Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud – from Halden to Hardangervidda? But none of those who have used their power to force it through, go up and defend it. What's that? Now there's a used massive force to carry out a reform, and then none of the parties are behind it, actually going up and defending it. Why is that? Because the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left see that this is a bad solution. If you see that this is a bad solution, you can't be so obscene that you push through a solution that you're opposed to. I am sure that if some Right-Representatives, some Advance Party representatives, some Christian People's Party representatives and Left-Representatives think about it, they will say: I am really against it, because I see it is dysfunctional, I see that there is no better organisation of Norway, but we should do it anyway – on principle. A country cannot be ruled like that. It is amazing that not the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left see that there is now an opportunity to correct the mistakes made in ours. It's not a defeat, it's a progress, and it's like Abraham Lincoln said: I don't give much to a man who's no wiser today than he was yesterday. You're allowed to change your position, you're allowed to think about it. And then there's one more thing that's amazing: we have a prime minister who can't answer if she wants to make a new government statement, can't answer if she's going to have a new platform for a Right Party government. There is clearly a disagreement between the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Hans Andreas Limi, who said yesterday that he wants a new platform, and the Prime Minister, who cannot be clear. It's amazing that it's going to go a long way into a new magnification period before we know what the government actually wants. All of us who were in the election campaign remember how the Right Party and the Advance Party disagreed very much on matters, and then the Prime Minister said, "It's election fighting, so we have to accept it. Now it's not election time. Now it's time to rule the country. Then you need a governance document where you know the way, and you need a fair and proper debate. These two days show that there are no new ideas and better solutions in the Right and Advance Party. It's just old ideas and centralizing solutions that remain. But, ladies and gentlemen, think about it, and do not force it through solutions that are opposed, such as: The fold.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1737	I am almost touched by the fact that the Hallingsharvet is mentioned in almost every post from the Center Party, and by many in the Workers' Party. As a retreated halling, it is to be heard that my dear district, Hallingdal and Buskerud, is being mentioned time and time again, which warms my heart. We had a round on this yesterday. I'm a little surprised that the main measure the opposition seems to be able to gather around is to keep the county council today – an opposition that has tried regional reform several times without success. They see that the Left and Christian People's Party has negotiated a regional reform with us, and they disagree with the outcome. Then they present an alternative, and it's going back to, or keeping, today's county -- a little tense. Many, particularly from the Labour Party, have pointed out in this debate that it is gray out. It also seems that it has affected the mood of the Workers' Party representatives. They're sour and laughed, that's the same thing that goes on in the post after the post. What is still pointed out is that the government's foundation is weakened. At least it's not because of the progress of the Workers' Party. There were no parties that went back more than the Workers' Party, so in that case there are other parties on the side that have something to talk about when it comes to it. I look forward to constructive cooperation in Stortinget. I hope that tomorrow will be a day to show that the government has many political issues to put forward, many political issues to be discussed in the Stortinget. What the government did in this throne was to present two main visions. The first is a sustainable welfare society, which I think all really share, even though someone thinks it's a substanceless concept. Well, then in this house we're going to fill it with content. The other is a safe Norway, which I hope all share the vision of: having a defence and a police force that can take care of the preparedness and security of our country. I am not very impressed with the efforts to show that we have no action, when the opposition has not presented anything new at all. It's a review of the election campaign, and we can continue it, but now the state budget will come tomorrow, and then there will be full opportunity to dive into any matter that is mentioned in the budget. I also thought I would give an explanation of vote when I stood up here. The right will vote in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, on care allowances – but will of course clarify that this must also be seen in a budgetary context – and we will vote in favour of proposal No. 2, in terms of determinatives. That is a good proposal that we think is right. Then it's proposal No. 3, from Audun Lighthouse. There is no right-wing agreement with the conclusions or premises of the Light Background and the SV, that ‘the increasing inequality of power and wealth in Norway’ – as it says – is necessarily the conclusion, but what we agree with is that there is a need for a notification of inequality and exclusion. If one could then be so kind and remove «in the summer of 2018», so that the government gets time to do this in a proper and good way, I am sure we will have a good debate on it, and then we will vote in favour. The proposals of the Labour Party are right-wing. Then there are the suggestions from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red. As regards proposal No: 7 is our basic policy, we're not going to do anything about it, so we're going to vote against it. But proposal No. Exciting 8, it marks the 100th anniversary of the general voting rights in 2019. I believe that the Stortinget is the stronghold of democracy in Norway – and we have had the anniversary of voting rights in 2013 for women’s voting rights – so I ask Bjørna Moxnes to send that proposal to the presidency instead of to the government, so that we can get a worthy marking of the anniversary of voting rights in 2019. I ask for a transfer to the presidency, and then we will support it. The last proposal, from the Greens/EFA, will be right-wing. It indicates that one will do something in the state budget in 2018. That budget has been written and put into print, and it is natural that it will be part of the budget debate that the Storting will have beyond the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1758	At least the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have the power to place the regions on the agenda. And even if we have a debate on the throne, I think that this debate will continue, among other things. in the light of the proposals made by the Central Party and the Labour Party in this Chamber, which will also be debated and discussed during this autumn. So that's what we're going to get back to. When we sum up a drumming debate, I would say that it has been an exciting and good debate. He has clearly stated that we now have a different and new parliamentary situation in our Parliament. It gives new opportunities for everyone, and it is important that we act responsibly and wisely in that situation. The debate on the throne also offers opportunities to raise debates that we do not necessarily have to do with the day-to-day in this Chamber. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to raise questions about religion's place in our society, important questions about human dignity and the fight against a sorting society, which it will also be important for us to raise further – right then also more concretely in proposals. We also raised the problem of the non-profit sector, because we thought it was a blind zone. I'm a little uncertain about how I'm going to interpret the involvement in the hall based on the debate, but I might add that no one has said that they won't be on that level – even though the zeal might have been a little bit bigger too. When it comes to the proposals that lie here, the Christian People's Party is also interested in supporting the SV proposal, with the change that the representative of Greece wanted here. We see here for us a message in line with Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa's flashing message in its time. It's high time, and we're behind it. We also support proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, in 14 weeks paper commission. But I want to make it clear that for the Christian People's Party, our intention is to get the new weeks in an increase of leave. That's what we're thinking about, and I want to clarify it. In the case of proposal No: 4, from the Workers' Party, if you're hired, we're not going to support it. These include: because the government has sent out a proposal that we are initially very satisfied with, and we will wait for the further discussion. In the case of proposal No: 6, from the Workers' Party, on the provision of apprenticeship space, has a Christian People's Party as a policy that we want to increase the apprenticeship rate. We have said that we want to increase to the level with the cost of a place in further training. So here we share our intention, but we have a little different tools than the Workers' Party, and so we don't support proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox That is to say, we support the proposal No. 1, point 2nd paragraph 3 and No 5, and then we're positive that the proposal from Red about marking is being sent to the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1779	It has repeatedly been pointed out by the opposition in this debate that there is now a new situation in the Storting, that the parliamentary basis of the government is weakened, and that there will be a more demanding period for the government parties. Yes, it remains to be seen. There is still a non-socialist majority in the United Kingdom, although there is no cooperation agreement between the four parties on the non-socialist side. The plural is there. There are some who have expressed some concern that the government and the government parties should run out of politics and ideas. The Special Representative for Violence, Vedum, has paid a lot of attention to this. I don't know if it's really meant to be – because maybe someone is sitting there hoping that that's exactly what's going on. I can promise that there is no cause for concern, because there will be a lot of good politics beyond this fall. Even pending a clarification with the Left, it is clear that the government parties and the government will deliver many political issues and make many political proposals. I think the Prime Minister answered it in an excellent way in the exchange of lines with Battle Violence Vedum earlier today. So if it is not to be a moon landing, there will be many concrete political issues. We're going to have more of them from government benefits into the world of work. We're going to increase employment. We're going to continue building new and better infrastructure, as we've done in this period. We need to get the health cows down. We need a strict and fair immigration policy, we need to focus on good integration and, not least, increased labour participation for those who live in Norway, and we need to safeguard people's security. So there's no need to worry about the political workshop either in the government parties or in the government. There's a lot of good politics, and we're going to design a political platform when we get a clarification of the talks that are going on with the Left. To the proposals that have been put forward: the Progress Party will vote in favour and support the two proposals of the Christian People's Party, the regulation on care and also the proposal for an evaluation of the permanent scheme. We also support the SV's proposal, which calls on the government to promote a big message of action against increasing inequality. You could discuss increasing inequality, so the premise is probably a little bit different. However, it may be useful to receive a message that highlights the issues, provided that no notification is required by the summer of 2018. Finally, to the Red's proposal for an anniversary: as Greece from the Right said, we will also support it if it is passed on to the presidency, and that the presidency assesses whether the Stortinget should carry out an anniversary marking. Finally, thank you very much for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1792	The positive thing about this debate on the throne has been to see all the new representatives who have been on the platform of the Storting today and yesterday and contributed to a debate on the throne with many good and varied posts. It's been very good. I've been sitting on the way in the throne debate and wondering, what has the throne talk and the throne debate actually given the answer? It has given very few answers. What plans does this government have for the future? What initiatives will be taken? Where are the new ideas? Where are the better solutions? For example, what does the term ‘modernisation’ contain that the Prime Minister had in mind? Is that just the good old centralization? Are there several forms, more reporting in the public sector? What is modernisation? It's a general oral cavity. What does the Minister for Local Affairs mean when he says that the municipal reform should continue? What can we expect? Is that 150 municipalities we have to expect in the future? Are there more coercive mergers to expect in the future? Are there extensive processes that steal time and work in the municipalities that we should expect? No – no answer to that. The Prime Minister's contribution today was a sort of mini-financial speech, and I think that honestly is the best one to show at this very moment. At least the state budget is planned, sail if most of the others do not seem to be planned. The mini-financial speech has highlighted the seriousness of the situation in recent years and the international situation, and the fact that free trade and the EU have been liberalised in praise. But the most important support throughout these years has been our own currency, so we must be happy to stay out of the euro zone. It is clear that the Right Party and the Advance Party – and perhaps the Left Party, when one hears the representative Abid Q. Raja – believe that they won the election. But the Right went back 1.8 pst, and the Progress Party went back 1.2 pst. The government no longer has the option of exchanging a majority between the Christian People's Party and the Left. There is no longer any cooperation agreement. Now it's actually a real minority government the prime minister has to deal with. I think it'll take some time for a mental to recognize the minority's position, but it'll probably come later. Settlements, to which the Prime Minister invites, are well and good, but if settlements are to work in the Grand Duchy, the government must also manage the reconciliations they make wisely. One has to ask himself whether the government has managed the police reform agreement with the Labour Party in a wise way, when the Labour Party before the elections, in June, found reason to propose its own proposal because the government did not follow the agreed government included. One must respect the similarities that the government chooses to make, and that has been a bit of this government's problem. The representative, Limi, thanked us for the debate. I'm not going to say that at all. I'll draw myself another one – we still have a little debate again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1809	I was really a little pleased with this debate, and it may not be the normal mood after 16 hours of debate in Stortinget. But I am pleased because the debate has shown so clearly that we have a new political situation in the Stortinget, that the government parties are on the defensive. That may be why the Right Group and others have been so tired at times in this debate, have been very busy talking about others and obviously have problems dealing with a situation where the secure majority and cooperation agreement are lost. But it gives opportunities to form other majority in matters that are important to many people around this community. There is reason to point out that it is not bad parliamentary practice for the Right to be downgraded. It is not undemocratic that the Right comes into a minority. It's a result of the election result and of the fact that in many cases it will be that parties that believe something else have a majority. There's no reason to be sorry. You have to deal with that. The bourgeois parties themselves have said that the centre of gravity of the government is very far to the right, in a way that is not really the basis for this Greatness. The debate has been very clear on what it is the right side does not want to talk about. The representative of Battle Violence Vedum has already mentioned centralisation. In addition, there are two other themes that they don't want to talk about. One is fair distribution, and the other is environment and climate. When SV has talked so much about care money in this debate, it's first of all because it's so important for the very few people involved, and because it's urgent to give the most vulnerable families security, but it's also because it's an example of a clear choice for our society when it's getting tougher times. Who is to bear the burden of it? Are we going to get even more unsocial cuts that hit people who have little? Are we going to have a development in tax systems and working life that contributes to increased inequality, or are we going to put the greatest burdens on the widest shoulders? And similarly, is it willing to deal with the climate problems and start cutting emissions after four years of standstill? It's less surprising that there's still no sign of greater independence from Donald Trump from the right-hand side of Norway. It emerges from what has been said about both nuclear weapons and basic policy in this debate, but there are matters Stortinget will certainly come back to. I'll take a little explanation of vote at the end. The SV Group will vote in favour of the two proposals of the Christian People's Party. I just want to make it clear that even if the Stortinget decides something about the allowance today, it cannot mean that the Stortinget should not have a proper debate when the proposal that has been promoted about concrete changes in the care scheme goes to the Labour and Social Committee. I think it is important not least to point out after it became so clear earlier today that the Prime Minister is pleased with the parts of the scheme that our proposal aims to change. I would like to make the small change in SV's proposal no. 3 as requested. It may have been a bit impatient to demand a big message ‘in the summer of 2018.’ I am not going to demand that this message be made on our premises, but it is good if we can get a message, so I want that change. Then SV will vote in favour of all the proposals from the Labour Party, the Red Party and the Green Party, in fact all the proposals from other opposition parties, and with that we have started a good and constructive cooperation in the new Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1824	I almost jumped when I heard the pleasant Trond Helleland to illustrate how angry he was for the tone of the opposition. We've been a lot happier than that, Greece. It's been a good debate. There has been a clarifying debate. Let me take some of the points. Firstly, there has been an explanation of why the Right Party and the Advance Party have talked so much about the past. It has even been to hear about the heritage of the red-green years that in a way the great explanation of the challenges Norway has. It's after hearing a throne speech that we found more gray than blue. Then we may have been given the answer as to why the King has not announced new policies, new measures, a major reform. It was, as Erna Solberg said, not a throne speech drowned in action. That's for sure. It was on dry land. It had two general themes. But the answer is that we have a weakened government, which is really a business ministry, waiting for a clarification of what its policy is, whether it gets an extension at the Left, new government platform, or whether Limi is going to negotiate a platform where he is going to remove the property tax – to the despair of his colleague in the municipality of Håler, who says that the care of the elderly must then be abolished. That is his rapporteur. But we'll have to wait to take that. Secondly, it seems that there is a government that has problems taking over that it is now a real and washed-up minority government. In the submissions, it has been striking that the representatives of the Right in particular have shown that it is now the responsibility of the opposition and, in particular, of the Workers' Party to show responsibility – accountability – so that things must go the right way, and that after the Right in the last period, the Workers' Party ridiculed us for entering into conciliation. We're taking that with us as an experience when we're going to go to this period. The Prime Minister warns against the majority's decision-making process. I think that's on the verge of arrogance to the Storting. But Erna Solberg doesn't have to worry, because we're going to take care of the whole thing. We should seek a majority where possible and have new policies in areas where there is a need for change of course. We're looking forward to that. Thirdly, there has been a debate that also had points of light of ideology. Now the Viking is not exactly an ideological theme, perhaps, but the dear Busherud in which my friend Helleland is so happy will disappear in a large region of which the very few – no one really exists – are active defenders. Maybe we can do something about that. So the representative never disappoints Heggelund. He has explained in a predictable way what other parties really mean, among other things. Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party: The Christian People's Party goes across its own policies when they implement the Christian People's Party's program in weeks of leave to father. But most importantly, he wants to keep the family as an important social institution, and it is now threatened by four new weeks to father. Well, well, I think it's going to be all right. But the mantra is: equality becomes of its own accord, politics should have nothing to do with it. If fewer fathers take fourteen weeks, we'll rather say we're disappointed with Norwegian men. The majority who believe it is gone, gone, and that's good, and we're going to use it for progress. It is directly promising for the period to come. With regard to explanations of vote, I shall say very briefly as follows: in the case of proposals No. 1 up to and including Nos. 6, we answer yes, to proposal No. 7 no, proposal No. 8 yes and proposal No. 9 no. We have also sent that to the Secretariat, so it can be reproduced when we vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1841	I also want to start with – as many others have also said – that I become a little optimistic when I see many of the new representatives here today. I think it has been very well done, both today and yesterday, by the new young and old as well as by men and women, so I believe that this is a good thing for Parliament's future. When I started my speech yesterday, I used a Havel quotation that politics is also the art of impossible, not just the art of possible. It is important that we face the challenges we are now facing, for example. in climate and technology, must be able to rethink beyond the usual policy thinking to develop policies and solutions for the future – for these are challenges we have never faced before. Therefore, it is quite interesting, if you sit down and look at the proposals that were made yesterday, that the most important thing for the Workers' Party at this time – where we also have to find the art of the impossible – is to reverse the division of counties. There were so many reversal proposals that were promoted yesterday, that I just sat there waiting for someone to suggest that the Beatles, ABBA and Every Brothers were reunited, so that we got back all the great heroes of old times. It's not the solutions we're going to have for the future. The solutions we're going to have for the future require daring, new proposals, and then you also have to have alternatives other than just going back, just reverse, just dreaming of some past that ever existed. But I really took the floor to explain the vote to the left. We are voting in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. We are voting in favour of proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. We are also voting in favour of Audun Lysbakken's proposal for a communication on inequality. And I think it's kind of strange -- and a little frivolous, when he obviously gets a majority for this in this room -- to say that this is a topic that no one has talked about. It was my main theme, and it's such an important theme that we're voting for the Audun Light Hill proposal. I hope he can take that to heart. Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, we vote against – because we are against it. Proposal No. 5 we vote for -- because we've always been for it. Proposal No. 6, about apprenticeship places, is a kind of old-fashioned way of thinking from the 1980s on that only one comes with a guarantee, it's fixed. For me, who was a child of youth guarantees, I have noticed that they do not really work. Proposal No. 7, from the Bears of Moxnes, we disagree. But I hope, like everyone else, that proposal No. 8, in the case of a 100-year flag with general voting rights, the Presidency may be transmitted. Then it will also receive our support, sail if I – on behalf of us liberals – have to point out that when it comes to celebrating that the vote in Norway in 2019 is 100 years, it is interesting that it comes from Red, when we know that the year before it was introduced in Norway, it was removed by the Communists in Russia. Proposal No. 9, from Une Aina Bastholm, we really don't take seriously, because that budget will be presented tomorrow. So to think that we're making a decision now at 0:00 p.m. 16th is going to make things different in the morning. 10, we don't believe in anything. We have to fix this through the budgetary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1858	I can start by thanking, on behalf of us, new permanent representatives in the Chamber for the debate, me too. Those who have been here for a long time have also been very nice. [[Laughter again in the hall]] If we are to take the government by the word, it is their foremost project for the next year to ensure that our welfare state is sustainable – socially, economically and environmentally. It was said in the throne, and it was also said by the Prime Minister this morning. What the government is putting into this concretely, we might see tomorrow, when next year's government budget proposals are presented. In any case, there is now a whole new situation on the Stortinget – which several people have been in – and it provides the basis for also creating a large majority of people who make this specific wish from the government. I also notice that the Prime Minister wants to have constructive cooperation with the Stortinget, and thank you for that. The Green Party is a value-based, block-independent party. We want to initiate conciliation and reform and are open to join a majority with both the opposition and the government parties. Already now, the Greens have called for a climate deal with increased targets, climate budgets and concrete measures to cut Norwegian emissions. We have also made a proposal for a drug reform to ensure harm prevention and individual health care for drug addicts. Here I know there are policies that both the Right and the Workers' Party agree, because they have them in their programmes. These are two examples of major and broad political action that the Stortinget can take in Norway two steps closer to social and environmental sustainability. The Prime Minister is clear that the oil age will end and that Norway cannot trust that we have high oil prices in the future. That's absolutely right, and as in many other difficult change processes, the recognition that you need a change is the first step to move on. The logical consequence of what the Prime Minister says is that Norway also has to set a date for when we are to stop subsidising new oil and gas exploration. It is the Norwegian people who take that risk now, and if the oil price has fallen to the bottom – and now you have to follow – when we sit and earn back what we have invested in the last projects, we have not just taken the risk. We've also taken the cost, and we're missing out on big revenues for the Norwegian people. I'm sure I agree that the census had all in all few visions of Future Norway. In concrete terms, I believe that a green society is also a better society. It could have come out much better. I really hope the government dares to bet on the green shift and a sustainable Norway and not just look at it as a burden. Then I can give a little explanation of vote – it's more of a explanation of vote. We often hear that we are against a lot, but this time I am easy to deal with: the Greens vote for all the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1875	Erna Solberg said in his speech that the number of jobs fell from 2008 and that most of the new jobs went to Immigrants. She's right about that. From 2008 to 2016, the number of persons employed among the Nordics fell by 70000. Over the same period, the number of persons employed from EU countries in Eastern Europe increased by 90 000. We in Red would like to welcome workers from the EEA to work in Norway. What we do not accept is that people with Norwegian pay and working conditions are replaced by people who work under worse conditions. There's social dumping put in the system, and that's what's happening now. In several industries, wage and working conditions are rapidly destroyed by social dumping and crime at work. Nevertheless, we see a lack of ability and will of the government to take the necessary steps. They come up with action plans, but they do not face systematic social dumping and organised criminals. If we are to avoid a collapse for the Norwegian model in important industries, we must act now. Norwegian politicians have to make a choice: the EU principles for maximum competition in employment or the Norwegian model in employment. We in Red select the Norwegian model. That is why we are in favour of national measures against social dumping. We require EEA citizens to have an employment and employment contract with pay terms under Norwegian collective agreements in order to obtain a residence permit to work in Norway. This does not mean closed borders. This means that we defend social dumping by making it illegal for employers to hire EEA citizens without a contract that follows Norwegian collective agreements. If such a provision has any effect, the employer must be severely punished for a breach of the provision. It would not be possible to develop a Norwegian model in the workplace without almost everyone working. Nor is it possible to maintain this model in working life when business owners have almost unlimited access to workers from poorer and exploitable countries. Therefore, national measures against social dumping of the type of Red are needed. We would like to get the whole Biggest on our proposal regarding the marking of the 100th anniversary of the general voting rights, by transmitting it to the presidency. Besides that, Red is going to apply for consensus and vote for the other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1890	One of the things that I think we're going to experience in this period is a fairly fair left, which is going to insist on time and time again that it's just their thoughts that are modern – sail if the thoughts are quite inconclusive, like that. The regional reform, a reform without any task transfer, where it has largely been about sitting on some backrooms at the Stortinget and drawing a map of Norway. It's sad, but that's how I think it is, and all of us are going to be called old-fashioned if we have different opinions than Left. It seems that we have a government that is a little bit without a plan. Then I have to challenge the Prime Minister a little: will there be negotiations between the Right and the Advance Party, and if it is negotiated, will there only be an internal document, or will there be a government platform for this government in the Stortinget? That would be in line with what the Stoltenberg II government did in 2009. If the Prime Minister's answer to that is no, it seems to be a bit out of the government's mind. Then it seems as if one until the left has decided whether to go to government or not, only to move on – treat a government budget while hoping that something happens after Christmas. But if anything happens after Christmas, one must well expect that the Stortinget will then be presented with a government platform for a government that may have been expanded – that would have been well in line with Willoch in 1983 – and that there will be a declaration debate in Stortinget, in line with what we have had today. I think the Prime Minister should give us a concrete answer as to whether there will be a new government platform, when we can expect a new government platform, and whether it will be presented to the Stortinget. I'm going to use the last minute to give a short explanation of vote. The centre party will vote in favour of the proposal No. 1 to 6. We believe that proposal No. 7 indicates a debate that this enlargement will eventually have to take, but the Central Party will await the possibility of taking it as a broader debate instead of taking a position on a proposal on security and defence policy, right above the table in the Storting. Proposal No. 9 is also a proposal we will come back to in connection with the state budget presented tomorrow, and we will therefore not vote for it. We are pleased that proposal No. 8 is sent to the Presidency, and we support the intention of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1899	I only have a few brief comments at the end of this debate. I'm not going to venture to give grades or praise to the debate, I'm just recording that it's always exciting with a new big deal. Some articles are new, some we've heard before. I understand that the Workers' Party's new stamping of this debate and the census is that the government's policy is gray and not blue, and that there are no new ideas. Well, before I've heard the stamping that we have too few visions. Now we've presented the two main directions the government says it's important for the next four years, and we've concentrated on it, in the hope that we actually get up and take that discussion about what's ahead of us. They are asked to do so, rather than to take up the debate on it. But that's the policy: you get criticism of what you don't say, and not debate what you actually say. I believe that the government has a very good policy, but it is right that we should negotiate with the Left. We're going to negotiate first and see if it's going to be a government expansion. If it becomes a government extension, of course, a pre-negotiated government platform for Stortinget will also be presented. It will also be if there is no government expansion, and the Progress Party and the Right have negotiated it. But we don't have a timetable for this, because it's not like this is a business ministry. This is a government whose basis from the previous period is still present. In line with democratic traditions in Norway, it will continue until a majority opposed to the government is tabled, which has thus distrusted the government's policy. We want to make sure that we get through our issues in the Storting, but we want a good plan, and the main steps are thus referred to as the main parts of the census and the debate that are here. We only have the Ministry of Business in Norway after the Prime Minister has submitted his removal request, and I can promise Jonas Gahr Støre that I have no plans to do so. So we're not going to be a business ministry, we're going to be a hard-working and hard-working government that's making new proposals, and the Storting has a lot to do with. There are already more than 18 cases, I think, for treatment in Stortinget, and since there is no government being replaced, that means that for the different committees it is just to solve the issues of the government that are ready for consideration in the future. There should not be long periods during which the Storting will not have the opportunity to be in dialogue on political matters with the government. This government is going to have the will to prioritize in the future. It's an important part of the signal we've been sending, when we also say that it's the sustainability of the future for our whole welfare community. There are many parts of our society that contribute to that sustainability, but it is important that we always provide the most important first, and the most important thing is to rust people while creating new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1913	It is important that the Prime Minister does not understand the criticism of grayness as an order for more blueness. That's really not the way it was meant to be. [[Huming in the hall]] But it was representative Skei Grande's posts that made me redraw. I represent a party that is proud of its reformist tradition. We are to change society through reforms, reforms to improve Norway. But it is completely pointless as a starting point for policy that we are in favour of any reform. We are too good reforms and we are against bad reforms. That means that even though someone is trying to make it ‘reverse’ in itself is a word you shouldn’t use, and that’s something negative, I would like to mention a whole bunch of things I think should be reversed after this government, because there are bad reforms, such as. The left has been on. As regards the Working Environment Act – the changes that should be reversed, the weakening of labour force resources in working life should be reversed, the cuts in the care system should be reversed, the cuts in the number of disabled dependants should be reversed, the privatisation of everything from rail to fish should be reversed, the poor conversion of climate policy, which has led to a too thin agreement with the EU, should be reversed. The list is long. The representative, Skei Grande, thinks that I should be more grateful for the majority of our proposal for a big message. I'm very happy that there'll be a majority for that. But I think what I said was that I thought the right-hand side had talked little about inequality in the debate. I just wasn't aware that the representative Skei Grande would feel hurt by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1922	The Prime Minister said that there were new voices, old voices and well-known voices. Hers is one of them, as an experienced parliamentarian and now also as Prime Minister. We have heard some comments before, and I also think I have heard the Prime Minister's comments before. Thank you for the lecture on the definition of the Ministry of Business. What I said was that the government seems to be sitting as a business ministry. I am aware that this government can now continue on a majority that it believes it has, until it has not, but it is the impression that you are waiting for. Marit Arnstad asked the Prime Minister very specific questions – whether there will be a declaration debate, whether we will get a clarification of the basis of this government, or the government, which the Storting will debate again. I don't think it was clear what kind of response we got to it. The Prime Minister points out that she has launched two very exciting ideas – sustainable well-being and that we should have preparedness and security in our country. The Labour Party agrees. The question is how. What policy should that take? Sustainable well-being – will it be implemented through a responsible economic policy, reduced disparities, more in work, raising the proportion of people in work? How to do that is, of course, what policy is all about. I believe that we have not had this debate in the context of a throne debate that normally bubbles over ideas, suggestions and proposals that a government has – notices of messages, reforms, actions. In terms of preparedness and security, we ended the last period of significant criticism of the government about how it works on these issues. The clearest criticism came against the way in which critical infrastructure was provided, and the secrecy surrounding it. On Friday we will probably get the land power study, which concludes a very poor treatment of the long-term defence plan. So we got the long-term defence plan for two arms and not for the third, and we haven't had a complete debate on it. That is what this policy is all about – its content. I can promise the Prime Minister that we will look for a majority to follow up in these areas – sustainable welfare, preparedness and security. But that is how the government comes to the Storting to get its majority, which is becoming interesting in this new parliamentary situation, which the government must now also take over – and not least the Right Party and the Progress Party on the Stortinget. They are the ones who are going to work for majority solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1935	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1947	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e1956	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4-6, by Jonas Gahr Støre, on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 7 and 8, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 9, from Une Aina Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA In the course of the debate, proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, changed. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The government is asking for a big message of action against the increasing inequality of power and wealth in Norway.’ In the course of the debate, proposal No. 8, from Red, turned into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘The Presidency is advised to ensure that the 100th anniversary of the general voting rights is appropriately marked in 2019.’;» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Presidency without a vote of the facts – and considers it adopted. Before the vote starts, the president would stress that if any representatives were to vote incorrectly, it is important to say from immediately in relation to voting. In this big business, there could be more sharp votes. It is therefore important that representatives concentrate on voting and report immediately if it has been wrong. You get a confirmation on the screen about how you voted. There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to comply with the base statement and to ensure that there are no permanent foreign military bases on Norwegian soil, even in the case of so-called ‘rotation-based training’.’; The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e2008	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government in its 2018 draft government budget to ensure that greenhouse gas emissions are reduced in line with the target of reducing them by 40 pst. by 2030, i.e. reduces Norway’s emissions by 1,6 million tonnes of CO 2 in 2018.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e2028	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide measures to ensure that all qualified applicants with youth rights are guaranteed the provision of apprenticeship after Vg2.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e2045	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to present a case to increase the parental leave ratio to 14 weeks, to give children and fathers time together and to contribute to equal opportunities in working life.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e2062	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to amend the Working Environment Act in order to limit the use of fixed-term rentals in order to ensure a safer working life.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e2080	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for changes to the care scheme that ensure more financial security and predictability for parents with care tasks.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e2095	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to evaluate the system and to promote the issue to the Storting with proposals for changes to the system to ensure that the objectives of the fixed reform are met.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e2110	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal sounds — with the amended wording: ‘The government is asking for a big message of action against the increasing inequality of power and wealth in Norway.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e2125	The President will propose that His Majesty the King's speech to the 162nd Great by its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-11.ana.ud219e2141	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
