ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e74	A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives Ulf Leirstein and Ingerd Schou on leave from 6 December to 8 December – both to participate in the Parliamentary Intelligence-Security Forum in Washington from the representative of Eirik Sivertsen on leave from 7 December to 12 December, from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete on leave from 7 December to 14 December, from the representative of Svein Roald Hansen on leave from 8 December to 13 December and from the representatives of Ingunn Foss and Torgeira Knag Fylkesnes on leave from 8 December to 14 December – all to attend the WTO Ministerial Conference in Buenos Aires These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for the West-Agder and Troms counties, Mathias Bernander and Katrine Boel Gregussen respectively are currently both abroad and are therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinget on Friday 8 December under the terms of the Ingunn Foss and Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes leave, respectively. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For the Vest-Agder counties: Benedichte Limmesand Hellestøl 8 December and Mathias Bernander 11-14. December For the county of Nordland: Kjell-Idar Juvik 7–12. December For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Steinar Ness 7–14. December For Troms County: Bjarne Rohde 8 December and Kathrine Boel Gregussen 11-14. December For Eastfold County: Monica Carmen Gåssvatn 6-8. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== December – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Ivar Odnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e168	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Siv Mossleth, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Nils T. Bjørke, Geir Pollestad and myself, to put forward a proposal to stop the suspension of passenger transport by train.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e173	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e191	The President will propose that the debate be limited to 5 minutes to each group of parties and that there be no repetition of the individual speeches. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e200	There has been a debate on the rules governing the composition of the Nobel Committee. The Labour Party will vote in favour of proposal 82 S, and we are also co-sponsors, together with the Centre Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Left. This is because it has been a practice for almost 40 years that parliamentarians should not be elected to this committee. In recent years, we have also been illustrated how important it is for the trustworthiness of the Nobel Peace Prize – and I would also like to stress: for Norwegian foreign policy – that there is a clear distinction between the committee that awards this prize and Norwegian authorities as such. For the Workers' Party, it is also obvious that this distinction will be less clear if large-scale representatives or alternates are elected to the Committee. It has been the subject of several occasions in the Grand Duchy, and although it has not been formalized in any decision, as it has for members of the Government, there is little doubt as to what our Grand Duchy has will. In 2008, all the parties to the Election Committee, apart from the Progress Party, concluded that it was a general belief that large-scale representatives could not be elected to that committee. At the same time, the majority said that this did not prevent non-recruitment representatives from being elected to the Committee during the last session of the Grand Prix. But it's a long time until the last session – we're so far going on with the first one. It's interesting to note that when the Progress Party was not in this plural, it was because the party wanted to go further. They pointed out that there is a continuing need to secure the independence of the Nobel Committee from the Stortinget, and they concluded that they fully shared the view that neither depositors nor government members should sit as members of the Nobel Committee. The party therefore wanted no representatives to attend the meeting until they had gone off as members of the Stortinget. I believe most people will agree that the need to secure and make visible on their own has not been smaller in the years that have gone by since 2008. On the contrary, I think many people would say that it has increased. So it's a little bit strange to see the turnaround from the Progress Party here. So I would say that it's not easy to see any reason why this should be different for alternates than for staging representatives. The law does not normally distinguish between this, and if the weight is to be placed on the committee itself and the wish to make a clear distinction between the committee and Norwegian authorities, there will be no decisive difference whether there are large-scale representatives or large-scale commodity representatives. The reasons given by the Labour Party for supporting this proposal are in principle. It has not been necessary to establish this in the form of a decision earlier, because there has been broad agreement in the Storting on this principle and one has practiced in accordance with it. We had hoped that this time too would be resolved without one going so far as to have to adopt it, by all the parties having respected what has emerged between the parliamentary leaders: that a broad majority in the Stortinget still believes this. When that signal is not taken, the Labour Party will vote on both points of the draft representative. In addition to the question of representatives and alternates, the proposal also addresses a request for distribution in order to see whether there are other matters that should be considered and which could lead to candidates not being elected. Leadership in international organisations may be such a relationship and may also lead to bonds that may create doubts about the independence of the Committee. There's something the presidency should be able to figure out and come back to Stortinget next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e217	It is timely and proper to have a debate on what kind of procedures the Storting should follow to appoint members of the Nobel Committee. The award to Liu Xiaobo showed that although the Storting does not interfere with the work of the Nobel Committee, there may be other countries that perceive that independence is not as great as it should be. That is why the Right will support all proposals that seek to determine who is to be elected and who is not to be elected. But what we're not going to support is proposals that are being promoted to put an end to a candidate, which is promoted by a party now. It's very simple: that day Carl I. Hagen was elected as a member of the Nobel Committee, woke up the majority on the Stortinget and said that this does not work. If that discussion had occurred when the Stortinget met in the fall, or completely independent of the election to be made this year, the Right would have no difficulty in supporting it. But we see this as a penal expedition against the Progress Party, which we cannot support. So we don't want to support item No. 1 in the proposal, but we want to ask that this be put into a larger investigation. But we will support paragraph No. 2 in the proposal, to look at international positions and, where appropriate, other positions. For example, it involves: that the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe will be affected by such a rule. I believe that this should also be a very clear signal – for point No. 2 in the proposal will also be adopted – to Thorbjørn Jagland that he should withdraw from the Nobel Committee. The story says we want to investigate this, but I haven't heard anyone say that sitting as Secretary-General of the Council of Europe is quite okay and compatible with being on the Nobel Committee now. So I think this should be a very clear signal also that he should consider his place in the Nobel Committee. It has happened before members have resigned, then in protest against the fact that there have been awards that they have not agreed to. However, also in the interests of Norway's reputation and in view of its independence, this should be a very clear signal, and therefore the Right will support item No. 2 of the proposal. I feel that what the Workers' Party said in its article is actually a support that one is now getting cleaned up in this relationship. Then we want a new situation. Then there will probably also be discussions about appointing a new member from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e226	The matter we are now dealing with in Stortinget should not have been dealt with in this way. The Progress Party has tried to show its way in this matter and has made several constructive solutions. This has not been accepted by the other parties, with the Workers' Party at the head, and we have thus ended up in this situation. I'm also very pleased with the support from the Right. After the last weeks of public debate, it has become increasingly clear that this matter is not about principles but about the person and candidate of the Advance Party to the Nobel Committee. Right, none of the other parties have dared to say this outright, but that's probably what this is all about. The fact that several parties change principles and arguments during the last few weeks' debate is clear evidence of this. The urgency of this matter today is the preliminary last attempt in the series to deprive the Progress Party of its right to propose members of the Nobel Committee. And it is precisely this that the Progress Party finds extremely unfortunate – that the majority of the other parties are trying to deprive the Progressive Party of the right to put forward proposals. It has been a custom for many years that the parties do not interfere with each other's proposals and appointments of advice, selection and names. This practice and this principle are breaking today. It was claimed that the Progress Party itself has always been in favour of this principle of eligibility for the Nobel Committee, but that we now do not want to follow it because we are going to have Hagen into the Nobel Committee. It is true that the Progress Party has been critical to elect its own representatives in the Nobel Committee and that we have made proposals on the contrary in the past. However, our positions and previous proposals have only received the votes of the Progress Party, so when we follow the established rules of the Stortinget, the rules must be amended and applied retroactively, or that is.They propose to change the rules with regard to our candidate, and they would like the Stortinget to say that it may be inappropriate to be, for example: the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, so that it should rule out the presidency. Our candidate they will stop, their own member they will let sit. This is clear evidence of the establishment of one set of rules for the Workers' Party and another set of rules for the Advance Party. If the Storting would, the Storting could have solved this matter a long time ago. Our candidate himself has proposed to both withdraw from his position as second alternate to Stortinget and later apply for leave if he should be called in during the period. Both parts have been rejected in cash, despite the fact that prior authorisation has been granted to representatives and alternates who have joined as governors, bank managers, NRK Chief, Director of the Vinmonopolet and Special Adviser in the U.D., to mention someone. In the past, a number of members of the Nobel Committee have been elected with strong ties with the Storting, although many have claimed the opposite in recent times. On 1 January 1985, Odvar Nordli joined the Nobel Committee while he was vice-president of the Stortinget until 1 October of that year. In 2000, Inger-Marie Ytterhorn joined the Nobel Committee as a member, while she was second deputy to the Stortinge in the period 1997-2001 – without debate in the Stortinge, no counter-representation was raised. In 2009, Stortinget then elected President Torbjørn Jagland and then President Ågot Valle to the Nobel Committee, without anyone other than the Advance Party responding to it. And finally, the Stortinget Renews Jagland's trust in the Nobel Committee after he has been re-elected as Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. This matter should have been resolved by the fact that the other parties followed practice and custom and were allowed to interfere with whom the Progress Party appoints as its member of the Nobel Committee. Then we would have escaped the situation that we are now up to, and we would have escaped all that noise and debate that this has created. The Labour Party has repeatedly argued that the reason they take this up is that they do not want the Nobel Committee to be politicised. Then I think we can safely conclude that this is exactly what the Labour Party has achieved with the attitude they have shown in these fundamental questions, that we, the Progress Party, are to be allowed to promote our candidates to the selections and committees to be appointed by the Storting. I shall say a little about the points in the proposal, given that there are two points: the Advance Party will vote against both. We could actually support paragraph No. 2, but we choose to vote against both, referring to the representative proposal that we have submitted to the Stortinget earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e251	The centre party, after a thorough assessment, concluded that we support the proposals that are on the table today. We choose to place the crucial emphasis on the fact that these proposals are already customary practices, which have been understood as practices, namely that large-scale representatives and alternates should not sit in the Nobel Committee. It is quite correct – as the representative Limi also pointed out – that there have been errors in this regard, in the past. It was not lucky that SV promoted Ågot Valle as a candidate, and that she was elected three and a half years before she left the Stortinget. It was not lucky that Thorbjørn Jagland was elected three and a half years before he left the Stortinget. But the fact that one has made mistakes in these questions in the past is not an argument for one to make that mistake again. On the contrary, there is an argument that this time this custom should actually fall into a rule, thus avoiding the kind of mistake being made again. Being a representative for Stortinget is an active choice that a person makes. When a person enters the Stortinget on a roll-call election list and the party that he represents enters the Stortinget, the person becomes either a staging representative or an alternate. It's an active choice. This is also a problem which the candidate in question himself has recognized when he has proposed, among other things. exemption or leave attached to the job as an alternate. It also counts – in the opinion of the Centre Party – in the overall picture. The centre party is otherwise very restrictive with permits or exemptions from the landfill, whether it should be County, State Secretary or other positions that people receive during the landfill period. We have also made proposals in the past, including: that one shall not be able to become a State Secretary when one sits as a staging representative. The centre party also emphasises, in contrast to the other proposals that have been promoted and which are under consideration in the Committee, both on international representations and on former politicians, that, in the case of the position as an alternate or as a staging representative, there is no demarcation issue: either it is one or it is not. On the other hand, when it comes to other types of jobs, we recognize that there is a problem of delimitation that one has to go through in a more precise way. Whether it is only for the managers of international institutions, whether it is for the Vice-Chairs, or whether it is for the members of the Governing Board, there is something you need to look at. However, we share what has emerged earlier in the debate that it is a rather clear signal that a person who is Secretary-General of the Council of Europe should not sit on the Nobel Committee. When it comes to assessing it, we will leave to sitting representatives sea to assess their position in this way. But there are unnecessary issues of independence and unnecessary bonds, which are difficult to deal with in such a context. No one should be in any doubt that the Center Party means it. There is also another proposal that is being discussed, and I would like to comment on it too. There is an SV proposal that former politicians should not be able to be elected to the Nobel Committee. It's the Center Party against it. The reason is that it can't be exclusive in itself that someone in his past life has been involved in democratic activity. It can't be exclusive in itself that you've been elected by people once in a while. Then we risk getting a Nobel Committee that is purely professorial or academic. Former elected representatives must be able to have a place, but the decisive thing must be the distance back to political positions, both formally and in terms of time. This alerts me that the Center Party is going to support today's proposal. We believe that there is a clear and simple proposal on the question of alternate representatives, which is based on a practice that already exists. We are aware that there has been a mistake here in the past, but it does not excuse us from correcting it today, and it does not defend that we should make that mistake again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e266	We are witnessing a piece of sad political theater, directed by the big crowds to the Progress Party and the Right. There has been a broad consensus for a long time about the principles that are here for discussion. The reason why a proposal like this has not been put on the table is that there has been a broad perception that there was a way to think about which all the groups on the Stortinget would deal with the appointment of members of the Nobel Committee. When this is not the case, it is necessary to confirm those principles. Therefore, SV is in favour of promoting the proposal to be considered today and the SV Group will vote in favour of it. It concerns the consideration of the Committee and the price, the emphasis on independence. And the experiences that both the Nobel Committee and Norway have had in recent years, I think to all of us why that's right. I agree that it is possible to have a discussion on different aspects of the practice that has been associated with choices earlier. But there is no doubt about it, and it is also established in the work ordered by the Group of the Advance Party in advance of this election, that there has been and is a difference between outgoing representatives and what we stand before here, one that has been elected to the Grand Duchy at the beginning of a period. It is said that this proposal is about one person. No, it doesn't. It is the Right Party and the Advance Party that make this become a matter of one person. I think the representative of Greece said it quite eye-catchingly clearly here instead, he said that the Right would have no problems in supporting this at another time. It's quite eye-catching. That means that it's the Right that makes this case very clear about Carl I. Hagen, because the Right has a principle, it just doesn't apply to Carl I. Hagen. The same applies to the Progress Party, which has had this principle and opens up to have the principle again in the future, but will not have it right now. So the responsibility for this situation lies 100 pst. of the High and Advance Party, not of those parties that are trying to confirm a principle that we thought we agreed on. The representative Arnstad has heard of a proposal from the SV that I have not heard of. We have not proposed banning the appointment of former politicians, but I think it is also part of this discussion – we can come back to it on Friday – because we are critical of the practice that has sometimes been in filling the committee with previous party summits. Therefore, the SV's proposal to serve the Committee is also a proposal which is very distinct from that practice and from the proposals of other parties. We're applying two principles. One is that the members of the Nobel Committee shall be sufficiently distant from the Storting. The second is that the parties have to decide for themselves. I believe that the best way to reconcile the two principles is to establish the principle of independence now, before the Storting should make its choices in the composition of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e281	It's been relatively long since the Left had someone in the Nobel Committee. Now we're lucky to get a product, and we're happy to. I think we have enough people in the party to get away from big business representatives and alternates. The left had hoped with this process, was that the Storting could take a little better time, so that we could actually go through the whole code and create a new code that everyone could agree on, that we had properly investigated and that had been lying there. That time the other parties did not feel that they had, so our proposal to give us that time and do this properly, fell into contact with the working group of the election committee. I think that this whole process had insisted that we had given ourselves time to breathe with our stomach and got a proper review of the other Document 8 proposals before we went to the elections. I don't think that if we had done this properly, it would have weakened Storting's reputation – and learned that this was possible to wait a little longer. But I understand that the presidency and the other party leaders think the most important thing was to have this done before the price distribution. It's not an assessment we share. I think the peace price would be on whether we had taken the time to create a comprehensive set of rules. Now it didn't work out, so we agree with the proposal that lies here, which we believe is to confirm what has been the pastime, which has evolved over time. There is nothing wrong with looking back in time to find both leave and appointment that were not smart. We put state councils in the Nobel Committee for a while back. That's what we've ended up with. But doesn't mean it's an argument for breaking the principles that have evolved over time. It is clear that we have had some triggers with some price distributions that have turned hard into Norwegian policy, in a way that would have made us wish we could have connected the country and the price more apart. I think – I have to point it out, because that is not always the case – that I agreed with everything that Marit Arnstad said about this pulpit today. All the ratings that the Center Party has here, I think left hand parts, too. We believe it is important that we also underline the parties' right to sea to choose who will represent the party. I think it'll be a very negative tone to put on if the big parties, for example. to determine the persons in the smaller lots to hold posts. At least it's not a principle that I think it's right to move in. We are also very critical of the use of leave for employment that is not about representing Norway externally, which I think is something quite different. That doesn't mean that we're going to have to have leave to become a wine monopoly director or county councillor. It's probably not practiced in the last few years, so there's a little bit of sought after examples to go forward, because we've been tightening up a lot in this area already. Then it is true – with the proposal that lies here – that it gives a clear indication for other international offices on behalf of Norway. It is clear that when we have a Secretary-General in the Council of Europe, it was Norway who was driving the election campaign to get that job. We used the Norwegian U.D., Norwegian parliamentarians and Norwegian resources to get such an international position. To believe that it can be decoupled from the Nobel Committee is in the finest of terms quite naive. There are clear messages for more people, I think, in the proposal that is now before us. I hope that at least we can have a process in which we treat this in principle, and then we have to take the consequences after those decisions have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e296	For a center friend, it's good to right that the left is unanimous in all the center party has said. It's not every day. I would also like to say that when it comes to having former politicians in the Nobel Committee, it is important for politicians to have just their expertise, experience and knowledge that will be important in the Nobel Committee – although it does not necessarily just have to be politicians. But this debate is about something else. It is nothing less than the Nobel Committee's independence from the Stortinget. For 40 years we have had the practice of not electing gagning representatives into the committee. In recent years, we have been given an example and have been illustrated just how important it has been to the trustworthiness of the Nobel Peace Prize – and I would add, for Norwegian foreign policy – that there is a clear distinction between the committee that distributes the prize, and Norwegian authorities, a distinction that both collapse and government in public space was very clear on stretching during as late as 2010. For the Christian People's Party, it is obvious that this distinction becomes less clear whether gagning representatives or alternates are elected into the committee. I believe that the representative, Mr Limi, is concerned that the right of proposal for the Progress Party should be respected. I have experienced that there is one perspective that has been important in this matter for a mass accumulation, it is precisely to retain that right of proposal. From the start to the end of this process, it has been important for a total accumulation to say that the Progress Party should retain the right to make proposals. The progress party itself has seen the problem. It was the Progress Party that went to the Constitutional Department on its own and asked for an assessment of what it would mean for the first representative of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of Storting and the first representative of the Foreign and Defence Committee of the United Kingdom to sit in the Nobel Committee. They were given clear advice. Although no decision has been taken in Stortinget, there has been a clear recommendation – as clear as it may be without a formal decision. It is the advice of the Progress Party to set aside, and that is the basis for this matter. I would also like to underline what is said in the Constitutional Department of the Grand Duchy, that since the intention is to place the decisive emphasis on the independence of the Committee and the desire to make a clear distinction between the Committee and Norwegian authorities, it would not be natural to distinguish between depositors and alternates when it comes to the eligibility of the Nobel Committee. Nobel Director Olav Njølstad has also commented in the public space on proposing to the Nobel Committee the first alternate representative. He said: ‘It also shows little understanding and respect for the work of the Nobel Committee.’ And as Marit Arnstad also said from this pulpit: Carl I. Hagen himself has shown an understanding of this problem by asking for leave and exemption. The problem with that is that it might be contrary to Constitution to give the elected representative, Hagen, leave and waiver. The Christian People's Party will support the two proposals under consideration, but I must say that what came from the representative of Greece today is a little strange. It is quite right that there is a problem that the chairperson of the Council of Europe is also in the Nobel Committee. I fully agree with the representative of Greece. Today, however, the representative of Greece found it problematic, but it is not a problem that depositors are elected. It's like saying it's really wrong to drive at 80 km/h in a 50-zone, but it's really good to drive at 130 km/h in an 80-zone. It's hard to understand from outside today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e315	The seats of the Nobel Committee are important in the internal torturings on the prestige and honor of the Stortinget. In the fall there has been a lot of noise as the party's big crowd will use its place in the committee to honor the founders of the party and Grand Old Man, and Carl I. Hagen has as usual been able to steal the show. But the most important question is no one who, paradoxically, has taken hold of: Where is the consideration of Alfred Nobel? The basis for the awarding of the prize is the Nobel will of 1895, which states that the prize for ‘peacekeepers’ is to be awarded by a five-committee, appointed by the Stortinget. Since 1900, the Stortinget has assisted the Nobel Foundation – a private Swedish foundation – in appointing the prize committee. The will does not say that the chosen ones shall be related to the lots represented on the Storing. But that has to be borne in mind, we believe, that Nobel's intention was to get assistance from the best qualified to realise the purpose of the prize. In order to carry out the task in line with the will, one must have made a proper investigation of what Nobel himself wanted with the price. It does not agree with guesses or own notions, this needs to be thoroughly investigated. The Stortinget has not yet done so, but that is what Red has suggested. In the years leading up to World War II, there were several central people in the peace movement who were members of the Nobel Committee. The Committee was set up with a focus on knowledge of languages and international peace policy. But in 1948, the Workers' Party had made great progress and wished for places to be distributed among the parties according to the number of representatives in the last election, decently enough. In the Storting debate, there was a great deal of concern that this would change the price profile and bring in other considerations than those that should govern the election of Nobel Peace Prize winners. The representative, Mr Hambro, said, with the agreement of several: ‘This is the first time that this committee was considered by the Nobel Committee elections, I had almost said as a party political exchange, where, in the election to a more political-like position of trust, a geometric distribution of ratios between the parties was to proceed. I can't imagine anything that conflicts with the spirit of Nobel and the assumptions under which the Storting undertook to appoint the sample that would make the distribution of the price." The Stortinget received a letter on 23 October 2017 in which the Nobel Peace Prize Watch repeats several previous recommendations, from 10 years back in time, that the system for the election of members must be changed. The letter refers to clarifications of the duties and responsibilities within the Nobel Foundation in recent years, where decisions by the Swedish authorities have underlined that the prizes are awarded by the Nobel Foundation, and that the board of the Foundation has full and final responsibility for all the prizes, including the Peace Prize, and that the awards are within the will description. On 29 November 2017, the Storting received a public recommendation from 17 professors from the legal faculties of Oslo, Bergen and Tromsø pointing to the legal rules in force in this case, namely that the Stortinget has obligations to decide on Nobel’s intention to the Peace Prize and to ensure that the Nobel Committee is composed of the most qualified for the purposes of the Peace Prize. At the centre of this picture is Nobel’s view of peace fighters – those who would act for the cremation of nations, for the reduction or abolition of standing armies, and for peace congresses. The majority has taken on a special task as an election committee for a private Swedish foundation. It's a little bit on the side, we'll say, of the Biggest functions under the Constitution. As has been suggested by Red, it is appropriate to examine the purpose of the price and whether this selection procedure is in line with the purposes and considerations of Alfred Nobel in his will. On the way there, and until we have a decision on that, Red will support any proposal that can help to close the bulkheads between the Storting and the Committee, as the proposals submitted will in part do. But the important thing is to get an investigation and then get a completely different type of electoral system, we believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e335	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e341	This article is for my own account. I take the floor because I was one of those who promoted Carl I. Hagen's candidacy, and I actually think that this matter is so important that more people should have the courage to take the floor instead of being commended by the parliamentary leaders. In this case, the Labour Party has run an unworthy and political game and used Stortinget as its own playground. To refer to Groucho Marx: I have my principles. If you don't like them, I have others. This double-ethnic summarises in a proper way the Workers' Party and the small parties in this matter. With a fig leaf, they have desperately looked for opportunities to prevent democracy from working, to a great deal of applause from the media, who have no ambiguity, it is the same meaning that is repeated many times. The Nobel Peace Prize is the prize of the Norwegian people. It belongs neither to Jonas Gahr Støre, Trine Skei Grande nor to the media. Grace to those who draw the people into this politically correct process. The Nobel Committee shall not have alternative voices. Members shall have the same approach to the major trends, to conflicts, to global institutions, and they shall have the same view of the world. Carl I. Hagen will destroy this idyll. It has been argued that with the alternate Hagen in the committee, foreign authorities will believe that the price has political ties. Honestly, this fig leaf is so tiny that everything is visible, and what is exposed is not much to be proud of. Here, the Stortinget has nominated former prime ministers and party leaders in a row and then Carl I. Hagen's reserve would be decisive? How informed does the House really believe that the embassies from foreign countries are about the conditions in Norway? Do they really think that Carl I. Hagen's reserve, with two or three attendances a year, is going to be what makes Norway not working credible, and that they boycott Norway? It's a pretty strange attitude to have, especially when Carl I. Hagen wasn't in the committee when the boycott from China happened. The media love to claim that Carl I. Hagen is high on himself. It's in glass. If there's someone who's high on himself, there's media commentators, the ones who mess up each other, they come to a completely similar conclusion, and they're all inside. Tomorrow they're going to be completely in agreement again: Christian Tybring-Gjedde is an indweller. He's an innkeeper in Stortinget, in his own party, and of course they've talked to someone who can confirm this. Large parts of the Norwegian people want Carl I. Hagen in the committee. What does that mean? Those who come inside relate to the people every four years, it could be otherwise. The Christian People's Party says that in the alleged humanity, perhaps Carl I. Hagen will have a pension slip in the post, but he will die in shame of what he has done for 30 years in Norwegian politics, both for the media and for the Norwegian people. The disloyalty of the left in this matter speaks for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e362	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e378	The President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e391	Today we shall adopt a plan, with agreement between most parties, for the future of the Army and the Home Office. Both in Sweden and Denmark, there are traditions of cross-political agreements on defence. I am pleased that, at home too, we have reached a broad agreement on a plan for rural power, although the results were not entirely in line with the views of the Labour Party. We have negotiated, all the parties, and I want to take the opportunity to thank everyone who participated. It wasn't obvious that we were going to figure out as many points as we actually did. While the government proposed to get new tanks for the Army in 2025 at the earliest, the Army with the agreement will have new tanks from 2019. The Home Guard gets 2,000 more soldiers, and we adopt a quality reform for the Home Guard, and now it has to be filled with content. We also get a new assessment of whether it is wise to bring down the number of standing soldiers in the 2nd Battalion on Shield – whether it is wise to do so to the extent suggested by the government. We support the government's proposals on the construction of Porsangmoen, the establishment of Finnmark land defence, and the proposal for several admissions of protected persons in a year. So this agreement gives the Army dedicated helicopter support, headed by Bardufoss. Everything is not moved south, as the government suggested. The solution that the majority of the population is now drawing is very close to a model that the Prime Minister has characterized several times during the election campaign as a bluff. So we have undoubtedly helped to move the government parties in the right direction. Helicopters both on Bardufoss and on Rygge are more expensive – obviously – than just having helicopters on Rygge. The working party therefore wanted more money for the Air Force in 2018 to be able to hire more people, so that we can provide the special forces with sufficient lifting capacity. Unfortunately, we did not receive any money for that. The concrete proposal comes in the revised budget for spring, and we have not committed ourselves to voting in favour of a proposal if we are not satisfied with it. In my opinion, the government has to cancel the purchase of second-hand Bell helicopters as part of the work on this proposal. Some claim that if we had established an alternative majority without the government parties, the Workers' Party would have had more impact. That's not true. It was not the majority of the Storting of the Workers' Party helicopter solution, which was to adopt army helicopters in the 339 Quadron of Bardufoss and helicopters for the special forces in the 720 Quadron of Back. Putting down defence bases and using money to invest in equipment and expensive weapon systems gives little political outrage. However, conversion has been absolutely necessary to build up a modern defence with increased fighting power. In the 1990s, many talked about the new threats, but in response to the political decision-making processes, almost all bases from the cold days of the war were retained, without enough money to operate all these bases. The result was clearly that defence capabilities were reduced year after year. The long-term plan of the Government shall be based on the four successive defence budgets. Unfortunately, the government has contributed to undermining the assumption of good financial management and long-term planning in Defence. The long-term plan for 2017-2020 was submitted too late to affect the defence budget for 2017. The plan for the Army and the Heimevernet came a year and a half too late and thus has no impact on the state budget 2018. So for the first time, the long-term plan for the Army and the Home Office is not valid for the first two years of the planning period. As I see it, there was nothing in this land power proposition that would suggest that it should be so delayed. This is on the contrary an army we know well from before. Upgrading of tanks and new artillery was already adopted in 2012. Now it's passed again. It doesn't defend that many years of investigation. There was no aim in itself for the Workers' Party to enter into an agreement with the government parties on land power. When the negotiated solution was better than the government's original arrangement, we chose to go in for a broad consensus on the future of land power. We could have chosen to go down with the flag to the top, with a minority supporting our primary solution. But those who have voted for us should know that even if we lost the elections, we should contribute to political breakthroughs rather than political markings that are being downgraded in the Grand Duchy. I'm satisfied with the consensus. But with the decisions we make here today, it is obvious that the framework for the long-term plan is too small. Last year, we filed the Coast Guard Command – we didn't shut it down, as the government had suggested – and the Defense Workshop outside the Horten. That's good. Now we've added our own helicopters to the Army, the base of the Setnesmo and more HV soldiers. The government has accelerated investment in new coastguard ships and the Stortinget has accelerated fighting vehicles. And at the top, the government has very high – perhaps unrealistic – ambitions about how much they can get out in terms of internal efficiency. Overall, this is a good decision, but it must also be implemented – the defence must be able to implement all these decisions. The result is that there is not enough means to increase the fighting force, as foreseen in the long-term plan. That is why a unanimous increase is asking for a new framework for the long-term plan in ours. Additional bases and new investments must be financed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e416	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good case-in-law leadership in relation to the land-use proposition. The army has historically played a decisive role in very many war operations over time, from the battle of the Marathon in ancient Greece to the current fight against the Islamic State, IS. In our defence, the country power is the oldest defence and still the largest. Although the army's and the country's capabilities have often been decisive, the Army does not live independently of the other Defense. Defence is made up of the total capacity, the ability of the defence industries to interact and the ability of our defence to interact with NATO. The core of the task of the county is to control its own country and stop any resistance in the advance against a country that might be interesting. In order to do so, one must have an operational capability. The work on the land-use proposition has shown that the operational capacity of the Army and the Land Force was weaker than assumed when working on the long-term plan. Operational ability is mobility, it's endurance, it's combat power, and it's firepower. The long-term plan of defence is a change in the pace of defence policy and represents a significant commitment to defence. Defence capability shall now be restored step by step. The land force needs to be invested in 180 billion. kr during the long-term planning period, and a total of 60 billion. kr must go to investment. But increased appropriations alone do not solve the challenges of rural power. In the long-term plan, including the plan for the development of rural power, there is a clear balance between increasing appropriations, modernising and increasing the efficiency of rural power. The size of the population has joined the government’s proposal on land power in general, not least to make better use of the protection obligation than at present. In fact, some departments are not operational until within six to nine months after the soldier has entered the first duty. This means that the Army has a low operational capability large parts of the year. This will now be changed by the withdrawal of basic military training from the departments and the transfer to Skjold garrison in Upper Germany. This, combined with several indentations and an active reserve to practice several times a year, gives us an army that can be ready for battle in a short time. The government will increase the military presence in Finnmark. The garrison in Porsanger, which has more or less been lying in a mill bag since the cold war, meets a new spring. A cavalry battalion of 400 soldiers shall be established. A hunting company will be set up in the garrison in South Varanger, and the Army and Homeland Protection will be placed under a common country command in Finnmark, so that the old Finnmark land defence will now be restored. Equally about the folding corner is also a matter of purchasing new artillery, and the army is also getting new air protection, which has already been decided upon. The government will have a home security that is well-equipped, and a home security that is well-trained. In the agreement it is that the Home Guard should be increased by 2,000 soldiers. The intervention force has the potential to do more advanced tasks than the area structure, and HV-17 shall be strengthened and also practise more with the Army in Finnmark. The government has staggered a new direction for defence policy, and the long-standing weather in the Defence for many years has now been brought to an end. The size shall be appropriate in order to be most responsible for the treatment of the long-term proposition. The whole of five parties are behind the deal, and you're going back many years because so many parties have ended up and are behind a defence policy settlement in the Stortinget. It's a pleasure. It is important for those who are going to work with the Defence, it is important for predictability, and it significantly reduces the possibility of misinvestment. This is done in recognition of the country's main task of ensuring the country's security, and of the defence being the country's insurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e437	Today, the estate adopts the land power of the future. The decision obliges all the parties, the Workers' Party, the Right and the Advance Party, as well as the small parties Christian People's Party and the Left, to work for a strengthened land power. The progress party would like to see the land power strengthened beyond what is in the proposition adopted today by the Stortinge, but instead of focusing on any shortcomings, I choose to focus on the historical initiative the government adds. The country's power has been gradually neglected over many years. The end of the Cold War and the detachment between East and West contributed to the conversion and major changes in the established structure. The greatest change was undoubtedly the removal of the initial service. Norwegian youth was no longer to practice and prepare for war, but to spend time on more peaceful jobs. The gradual decline of the Defence, including the Land Power, well fits in with the image of the Norwegian authorities that they wanted to create, namely Norway as a peace nation, without any ability to explain what is in such a concept. For many years, the defense became one of the losers of the State budget, and with eternal peace in view, different governments chose to spend money on ever new welfare benefits. In the same era, the defence of NATO countries changed from mobilising many soldiers on the ground to a defence based on increasingly advanced technology. Technological superiority should reduce the need for soldiers. We see the same trends today. All parties must take their share of the blame and responsibility for the depriving of the defence, but there is little doubt that the Red Government, and in particular the Workers' Party, bears the greatest responsibility – not of evil will, but because the analysis that was made was insane. Today, most parties agree that the defence needs to be strengthened significantly. The challenge, however, is that this cannot be done by activating a switch. If you first consciously or unconsciously scaled down the defense, it's a time-consuming trend to turn around. Of course, you can train more soldiers relatively quickly, but they have to be equipped, and they have to fit into a concept where different combat systems are involved. And a combat system cannot be purchased over the counter, but requires many years from concept to operational use – typically 15-20 years. It gives the defense significant challenges. New technology is developing faster and faster, and as a project progresses, it will always be desirable to upgrade the system. Most of the parties have now realised that the defence needs to be strengthened significantly. The most important task of defence is to defend Norway against external enemies. Our membership in NATO will ensure that our allies come to our rescue after some time. So hopefully they're able to do that, we'll never know. The country's power shall support the security and defence policy priorities of the LTP, namely to strengthen the defence of Norway, to strengthen NATO's collective defence and to contribute to international efforts. The first two points are a little controversial, but the last one will always be politically hot. A visible presence outside NATO's territory with a mission to combat various and often variable rebel groups, or to combat terrorism, is today the rule rather than the exception. The foreign policy assessment of such missions does not directly affect this proposition, but is nevertheless defining because our soldiers must be equipped and trained for tasks that are politically expected and desirable for them to be resolved. As is often the case, the batches that have been implemented for changes to this submitted proposition claim that precisely these changes will be absolutely essential to maintain the operational capability of the defence. Naturally, the parties want to make visible where they have been put through the negotiations, as the representative Huitfeldt did. This is minority policy. I choose anyway to focus on the big lines, what gives the defense a lot more fighting power. The development of the country's power must be seen in full with other defence capabilities, because the overall operational capability of the defence is crucial. Therefore, the country power needs to be more developed in order to contribute to a joint operation by being able to operate integrated with support from other defence sectors. The ambition is that the land power should be further developed with a broad range of instruments, without obvious weaknesses an opponent can take advantage of. New modern tanks are such an instrument. Unlike the upgrading of existing tanks, new modern tanks will be able to control enemy tanks and will therefore be an important element of the mechanical structure. New plumbing will also significantly strengthen land power. 24 new shots with a long range will naturally help to stop or delay any opponent. New combat air protection will be essential for defence against attacks from the air. It is therefore an important capacity for own protection. The fact that the Norwegian defence industry at Kongsberg is the world leader in this field makes the acquisition a win-win situation. The government also had ambitions to create a dedicated helicopter capacity for the special forces on the Back. The reason for the agreement with the Working Party and the small parties Left and Christian People's Party on a split helicopter solution between Bardufoss and Rygge reduces this capacity. This could, of course, reduce the preparedness for terrorism. At the same time, the remaining Bell helicopters on Bardufoss will be less able to support the needs of the Army. In any case, the long-term ambition must be to phase in new dedicated helicopters to the Army. Electronic warfare is now part of a natural concept of modern warfare. Norway has used this for its own benefit for a long time. Technological developments are accelerating and the new country power will therefore be strengthened in the capacity to implement electronic countermeasures. The government also reinforces possible ground-level efforts. The representative of the Progress Party, Mr Wilsgård, will discuss this in more detail in his statement. System acquisition in Defence has a high price tag. However, if it is possible to see investment in defence from a social point of view, the calculation can be very different. It is therefore important that Norway makes the best possible use of investment funds for Norway as a whole. Other countries include different forms of indirect subsidies to their own defence industry in calculations to approach NATO 2 percentage points. I think we should notice that when countries indirectly subsidize their defence industry, they deliberately use these figures to increase their share of GDP in defence. In other words, Norway’s use of defence is not as bad as it should be. 1.61 pst., which is the ambition of the long-term plan, makes us first use the second most per capita on defence, and in addition, we are very honest in our assessment of how we spend this money. Then you can add that the U.S. has a completely different view of it, because the U.S. has a global responsibility and uses 4.5 pst. on defence – I think it's the last numbers. So you don't just have the goal of defending NATO. They have the whole world as their home arena, and as I said, it will cost more money and mean more on GDP. It is therefore important to stress that a strong and competent defence industry is important in order to maintain the operational capability of the defence. The defence must therefore take advantage of all the opportunities available to the Norwegian defence industry not only in our acquisitions at home, but also in the acquisitions we are making, so that we can engage the defence industry – call it that – in industrial cooperation. Before it was called repurchase agreements – that has gone away. But defence-related industrial cooperation is very important. It is not important in isolation for the defence industry, but it is in isolation important for the ring-fenced effects of the defence industry on other industries, i.e. thousands of profitable jobs, such as: Kongsberg and Nammo, and hundreds of small businesses involved — whether in space technology, cyber technology or aerodrome monitoring. Anyway, Kongsberg, Nammo and other companies are doing an incredibly good job of getting well-being up in Norway, so we can have the money we need to be able to fund welfare services and other things. My advice to the government is that the industrial cooperation agreements to be implemented are completely square. We're going to have 100 pst. back to the acquisitions we make, so that the defense gets better support on the operational capability and the Norwegian industry, and most people get a better relationship with the Defense and with our operational capability.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e473	Working for a society where the people of the country actually govern the country is a central bank's policy. A strong Norwegian People's Government has led a well-functioning and sovereign nation state. It is not possible to guarantee Norwegian citizens the right to rule the country without our ability to defend us. If we don't have the capacity to handle e.g. pressure on borders, treasons about hybrid warfare or extensive and coordinated terrorist attacks, we do not intend to secure the citizens or to govern the country on the basis of their will. Ensuring national defence capabilities ensures political space for action. The defence must be developed within a framework that ensures that the various elements complement and reinforce each other and provide a balanced defence in all domains. The entire defense must be able to operate closely with close allies. Due to Norway’s special geography, land powers must have the daily capacity for modern and fully integrated high-intensity operations throughout the country, both alone and with our close allies. Norway's security depends heavily on the will to defend and the competence of the Norwegian people. Strengthening the National Security Institute and the structures of the Defence Agency that maintain the admission of the defence-independent is therefore important for the Centre Party. The centre lot is fixed as the first lot of NATO 2 percentage points. This means that Norway should increase its defence rights to 2 pst. GDP by 2024. The aim is to commit Norway to the Prime Minister's government towards NATO at the 2014 Wales Summit. After the Central Party has taken its decision, several lots have followed. All the major Norwegian parties went to elections this year on the game programme where they have NATO 2 percentage points decided. Equally, the majority of the Storting, the same party, adopted today a plan for the Army and the Homeland Protection that we do not know meets the NATO goal. The Minister of Defence wrote in reply to the Central Party that: ‘To achieve a situation where Norway actually uses 2 per cent of GDP for defence purposes will require significant framework increases in the coming years, also beyond the levels foreseen in this long-term plan’. So one knows what one does. It would be natural, in the management of the deferred landings, to take the consequences of Norway's commitment to NATO 2 percentage points and increase the financial framework. It would provide economic space for an absolutely necessary strengthening of the Army and the Home Office. In its alternative budget for both 2017 and 2018, the Central Party has proposed to increase the Army's budget by 1 billion. kr. It would ensure the launch of investment in required capacities in the Army, training and training for the Force, and funded higher deployment rates in the Brigade. The problem for the Army today is for a credible economic framework, which forces several unfortunate changes in the Army and the Home Office. Among other things, the commander of the Army himself has stated that the long-term plan of the Defense prioritizes down the Army. In today's Business Wednesday, June 28th, he said: ‘If the economic framework for the development of the country’s power remains standing, they lead to a de facto deprioritisation of the Army and the Home Office, and a turn away from a balanced defence.’ In the same chronicle, the commander of the army stated that “The army’s experience from the last long-term plan” – that is, 2013–2016 – “was that we got about half of what was planned for investment”. Now when I hear the representatives of the previous two parties speaking, I understand what General Robert Mood was talking about in Political Quarter yesterday when he said that a spokesperson as a politician without understanding how those who are further down in the organization are experiencing his everyday life. The centre party has always fought to secure the army's necessary capabilities such as artillery, tanks and combat air protection, just as the chief of defense recommended in his trade-military council in the autumn of 2015. The Landmact arrangement states that Norway needs to continue and strengthen its mechanised brigade, as the Center Party set up during the management of the long-term plan last spring. Organizing the Army as a Mechanized Brigade is exactly what NATO encourages Norway to continue to do. There are a number of challenges with the setting as it is currently set. First of all, there isn't a modern army in the world today that hasn't dedicated helicopter support. Helicopters are important for the army's ability to handle, among others. Reconnaissance, strategic movement of soldiers and equipment to evacuate Norwegian soldiers. The plan - as it now suggests - should be based on alternative capacities, such as: must be to let a civil helicopter into the Army. This is a blank track. Do you really want to make this work? So one is going to rent a helicopter into the Army that's not built for war and that doesn't have equipment like that. required to detect and avoid missiles. And what about the pilots on these helicopters? They're not trained to fly in war missions. The Central Party has fought hard for the Army on Bardufoss to have its 339 squadron, that one should have a squadron that is also led on Bardufoss, and that is dedicated to the forces. We also want us to strengthen our special forces' mobility and operational capability through increased helicopter capacity on Rygge. In the short term, however, the most important approach is to increase the supply of human resources. As of 2012, Stortinget decided to acquire tanks that could communicate with the upgraded tanks CV-90. But it has not been followed up by the government, and in the case we handle today, it was not even suggested that one should get tanks until after 2025. There's been a little bit better in the configuration, so now a leased tank, but one doesn't buy in own tanks. The maximum number of tanks you can see going in is unclear. What is the price of these tanks? How long should a person rent them in? The next generation of tanks, which the government is talking about, won't be around 20 years away. Should we rent tanks for 20 years? I assume that all these questions will be clarified in the Council of State's articles here today. The government reduces Home Protection by 7,000 soldiers compared to what was supposed to be the size of Home Protection until 2016. The protection of the marine environment is also destroyed by the plural today. Norway is, as far as I know, the only European country that is now weakening its protection. The central party, on the other hand, will strengthen the Home Office. In the long term, we will increase it to 50,000 soldiers, and we will continue the Sjöheimewert. Last year, the Central Party decided to increase the budget for the Home Office by 300 million. kr to complete the financing of a Home Guard and secure all soldiers upgraded material and modern weapons. It is good that the government will strengthen HV-17 in Finnmark, we are in agreement with it, but that one should take home-protection soldiers from the districts otherwise in the country in a crisis situation and move them to Finnmark and thus weaken the Home-protection system in the rest of the country in such a situation is not the right procedure. 2. Battalion on Shield shall be based on mobilization personnel, said the government. It means in practice that 2nd Battalion will no longer have soldiers in active service on Shield, but that the Battalion is based on fleeing soldiers from other parts of the country if one is in crisis or fear of war. Chief Councillor of the Norwegian Officers' Union, Pál Nygaard, has stated that the government is adding 2nd Battalion ‘down into a mill bag to become a mobilisation battalion. [[...]] At the same time, they assume that it will be at the foot of war within 48 hours. It is not possible.’ The fact that the government will return to Stortinget with a cost estimate for having one or two set companies has a particularly small value. Does the government still not – after working with the defence's long-term plan for many years and postponing land power for one year – tell us how many beds one has, and what one will need on Shield? The argument we're getting is almost unbelievable. We live in a troubled world. Norway is a slippery port in an uproared sea. We all hope that we in Norway will also be able to live in peace with the outside world in the future. But in the same way that we – when we pay our insurance annually – sincerely hope that our home will not burn down, the insurance for the country must also be paid. That insurance, together with good international dialogue, is a strong national defence and a strengthening of the transatlantic alliance. Unfortunately, we have to state today that the government and the majority in Stortinget do not have the will to prioritise this insurance for our country high enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e524	Is the representative of Mr Navarsete going to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e529	Yes, I'm taking up the suggestions the Center Party has on its own, and the ones we have with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e534	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsette, then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e539	SV stands for a policy of strong national defence. It is necessary to ensure that Norway is able to assert its sovereignty, to ensure that Norway is more able to deal with crises of different types itself, and to contribute to the relaxation of the north. When Norwegian security is guarded by Norwegian soldiers, it contributes to reduced tension. When we show that we are able to handle our own safety, it contributes to reduced voltage. We are also committed to strong national defence to ensure Norwegian independence as far as possible. Too much dependence on the United States also means that our country is being given a great deal of praise to the mainstream policy. With the uncertain political developments we are now seeing in the United States, it is more topical than in a long time. It is also an important part of this debate that too weak a national defence and an overreliance on the United States makes it more difficult for Norway to take independent decisions, for example. related to participation in foreign wars, which people in Norway oppose. If we are to have a strong national defence, we need a balance between the defence sectors. Then we can't have a defense that is in practice a niche defense, based on delivering different types of forces to the United States and NATO. That's one of the reasons why SV is also strongly critical of the permanent presence of American soldiers on the Guards, for which the government has opened up. The alternative state budget promoted by the Swedish Government yesterday proposes a significant strengthening of both the Army and the Homeland Protection Agency in addition to the Maritime Defence Agency. In the short term, we will achieve this by cutting participation in wars for the United States in the Middle East and in Afghanistan, and in the longer term, both in terms of investment and operations, by taking up what are the 52 elephants in space, and which must also be part of the debate on the land power, namely the excessive purchase of tyrant American fighter aircraft. In the debate on the land-use proposition, we argued about 18 old helicopters. This is a clear sign of the lack of money that characterizes the Army and the Home Office. But money for investment in a modern defense exists. Then we have to make sure that there is a balance between investments and operations between different defence sectors. If we freeze the fighter flight purchase on 40 aircraft – those that have been ordered for now – we will save 8 billion. SEK in investments and at least SEK 290 million. kr in annual operating expenditure in the years to come. It'll give more money to the county. SV was outside the agreement on the long-term plan because of this, and I believe that the proposition we have now received shows that we were right. The purchase of combat lights is too large, and this means that we do not have the resources needed for adequate investment and sufficient means of operation for the country power. However, we are pleased that we have been able to contribute to the majority in a few important areas of this position. It's about a possible faster modernisation of the tanks, which I'm glad there's a broad majority behind it. It concerns the termination of the Heimevater cut that was agreed upon by the majority in the context of the long-term plan. Then we are more dissatisfied in other areas, where SV does not support the majority in the vote. We wanted an acceleration of new plumbing. We're going for another solution for Bardufoss. I hope that what the majority has come up with will mean that we get something that is significantly different from what it was put up for in the long term plan. But we don't feel sure about it, and that's why we're in agreement with the Center Party on other comments and other proposals, among other things. to consider buying more used helicopters to meet the needs of both the Army and the Special Forces. I hope that the Minister of Defence, even though the government parties do not join it now, will also have that solution in mind when he is now going to consider different options towards revision. SV has also opposed the changes on Shield, both because we are concerned about having standing forces, and because we believe that an effective army must be able to operate widely and mobilely. It suggests flexibility in the structure, and then it's also wise to maintain a light infantry battalion. That is why we have put forward proposals to reject the government's proposal to abandon this and to support mechanization. With this, I would like to address the proposal that SV is on its own in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e564	The representative Lighthouse has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e570	The main task of a State is the security and defence of its citizens. Having a good, operational, forward-looking defense is therefore our most important task. The important thing when we deal with the country force today is to mention that the agreement on the long-term message was made without the left. However, we have taken responsibility and negotiated with both the government parties and the opposition parties in order to reach an agreement that will be with us and fulfil our most important task, namely a good defence for the country and the security of its citizens. In such negotiations we must also be able to give something, but in sum we in the Left are well pleased with what will be adopted today. In the following, I will focus on linking some comments to the points of disagreement. They're helicopters, tanks, home security, and 2nd Battalion. In the case of helicopters, our primary view has been that Bardufoss must be maintained as the main helicopter base, including the 339-square drone, where the ‘detachment’ of the Back continues. We in the Left believe it is essential that a solution maintains this main base role for Bardufoss in a way that meets the operational needs of the Army, including the need for medical evacuation. However, what we have agreed with the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party on is a shared solution between Bardufoss and Rygge. Bardufoss is continued as a base with its own management, budgetary and performance responsibilities. In the context of the revised national budget in spring 2018, we ask the government to submit a plan to ensure dedicated helicopter support for the Army, including the possibility of alternative additional capacity, as well as to ensure increased helicopter capacity for the special forces. What we are also concerned about is ensuring the appropriate organisation of the helicopters that provide local management and their management. For Home Affairs, I will also refer to the Left's Alternative State Budget, where we prioritised funds to increase the volume of strength of Home Affairs. We in the Left believe that Homeland protection should gradually be stepped up to 45 000 soldiers, of which 5,000 to the forces of intervention. Home security is part of a balanced defence and has become an even more central part of the Norwegian defence in today’s unforeseeable threat picture – characterised by terrorism and hybrid warfare. We are therefore pleased, however, that the majority has decided to increase the number of civil protection soldiers by 2 000 – from 38 000 to 40000. It is also important for us that a quality reform for Home Affairs will be implemented with increased resources for equipment and training. During a checkup on object protection, I also had several follow-ups on the Sjöheimeverterung. We in the Left note that within the powers of the Chief of Defense, efforts are being made to continue the ability to perform certain tasks related to object protection that the Sjöheimeverterung previously performed. As far as tanks are concerned, it has always been important for us in the Left with an increased allocation to the Army in order to lease tanks, in order to upgrade the army's tank capacity. That is why we are very pleased that the majority have agreed to open up the Army to lease or borrow tanks as early as 2019. We assume that the land force will have a modern tank capacity, and we have agreed that the government will present a case on the loan or lease of tanks in order to achieve the fastest possible upgrade of the tank capacity of the brigade. For the 2nd Battalion on Shield, we in the Left have been primarily concerned that we should still have a presence of guardians. We are therefore pleased that the majority is asking the government to provide a cost overview in order to keep one battlegroup with one to two companies liable for protection on Skjold. The majority now ask the government to come back with a cost overview to keep the 2nd battalion set up with at least one battlegroup with one to two companies with support elements on Skjold. Before final decision on the composition of the 2nd Battalion, the cost overview shall be available, and we also ask for an overall assessment of the impact on the recruitment and operational capacity of Brigade Nord to set up a minimum of one to two teams with support elements on Skold. All in all, the review shows that there are some differences in our primary positions and what we have finally achieved the majority for, but as my review shows, in the Left, we have many reasons to be satisfied with this. The most important thing for us has been predictability around the Norwegian defence, and not least that in Norway, together with our allies, we have the ability to defend ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e591	The Christian People's Party is pleased that a broad political settlement has now been reached on land power. Land power is and becomes an essential component of Norway's collective defence capabilities. Therefore, it is so important that the Army and the Home Office become sure good, secure and stable conditions for the future. It requires broad political solutions. The Christian People's Party does not support shifting the processing of land power. The long-term plan should have been treated as a whole in order to ensure the proper weighting of investments and a sound and balanced defence planning. Nothing that has happened afterwards has shown that such two-stage treatment was necessary or beneficial. The Christian People's Party was also not part of the long-term agreement. The Christian People's Party wants to bet relatively more on the army and home protection than the long-term plan provided. It is reflected in our alternative budget for next year, which strengthens the agricultural power by half a billion in addition to the government's arrangement. At the same time, there were absolutely positive aspects to the government's agricultural policy. For example, the reinforcement of Defence in the north is both important and correct. It fully supports the Christian People's Party. It is also gratifying that the government went back to the proposal to shut down HV-11, and that a good thing to keep the district structure in HV, as the Christian People's Party argued in connection with the long-term plan. The future helicopter structure has been a central theme of the negotiations that have led around the land power proposition. For the Christian People's Party, it has always been important to ensure both dedicated helicopter support for the Army in the North and to increase helicopter capacity for the Special Forces. We are therefore pleased that a principle decision is being taken today on a shared solution between Bardufoss and Rygge. It is also good that Bardufoss air station is further developed as a base with its own lease, budget and performance responsibility. The order from Stortinget to the government is ready: present a plan to implement such a split solution, so that the Stortinget can decide on this in relation to the revised budget for spring. This is a process the Christian People's Party will follow closely. First of all, we think that Bardufoss has to be maintained as the main helicopter base, including the 339-square drone. A modern army needs helicopter support to move crews and medical evacuation. Furthermore, we are very pleased that the Home Office is greatly strengthened by this agreement in relation to what was proposed. Not only shall there be a quality reform with additional means of equipment and training, but the number of soldiers shall also be increased according to the government’s proposal, to a minimum of 40000 HV soldiers. In addition, there shall be a professional assessment of the need for home protection for crew, equipment and exercises. A shall also consider how to maintain the protection of coastal zone objects after the closure of the Maritime Protection System. This should in time form the basis for new policy decisions to equip Home Protection for the future. Yes, the Christian People's Party would like to see an additional strength. But this is absolutely important step in the right direction. Home security is more important than ever at a time when there is an unbridled threat, the impact of terrorism and hybrid warfare. A third important point is our army's tank capacity. The proposed scheme was not well enough here. The land authority shall have a modern tank capacity and it shall not wait until 2025 or later. Therefore, it is very positive that a loan or lease solution is already being provided during 2019. Finally, in the case of 2nd Battalion on Shield, the Christian People's Party is pleased that one should consider retaining a team of fighters with one to two companies liable for protection on Shield. Norway is currently investing heavily in military material investments. We are cutting high in NATO when it comes to material renewal. We are one of the NATO countries in Europe that spends the most money on defence per capita. The follow-up to the new long-term plan will increase the defence budgets in the next few years. What I think is necessary is also because the Christian People's Party wants significant initial investment in material for the Army. But the purchase of military material is not enough. We also need to provide sufficient resources for operation, practice, training and maintenance. We also need a defense in balance that way. Only in this way will we get the most defense for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e622	Norway is a small country that deserves respect for established international law. This means that we need to work for the best possible cooperation relationship with all countries, neighbouring countries and others. We want respect for our own borders and our own territorial and national integrity. Then we must respect the same with others. Military escalation in border areas increases the tension in security policy and needs to be carefully considered before it is implemented. When Norway participates in war adventures near the southern border of Russia and is part of a military alliance that also pushes on the Russian Western border, we should not be surprised that the temperature is also rising in the northern regions. A permanent stationing of the US Marines at Værnes is a violation of Norwegian basic policy and a change in policy Norway has been leading since World War II. And if the planned phase-in of Poseidon surveillance aircraft means that US-labelled aircraft will permanently fly from Norwegian base over Norwegian and international airspace, it will reinforce the breach of this base policy. Lookup in the media suggests that the stationing of American soldiers is being prepared at Setermoen. If this is planned from a proposed transfer of the 2nd Battalion from Skjold to Porsanger, it will also help to move the United States closer to the Russian border. Since the nationally based territorial defence of Norway is now under critical mass, we need a debate on concrete defence objectives when we need to build up, within an economically manageable framework. A State which does not itself take responsibility for ensuring its own borders and independence cannot expect others to stand up to defend the State itself for which it is not responsible. The last century is full of examples of modern major powers acting on their own interests and easily crossing smaller countries without being hindered by concluded agreements. Red wants a strong and independent defence of Norwegian territory built on conventional means of dispute and a general duty of protection. We believe that the forces, the Home Guard, the Maritime Defense, along with the surveillance of the airspace, are most important to prevent a hostile force from taking control of the country. That is why we also proposed in the State budget to strengthen the Heimeverten, Sjöheimevernet and the Army together for a total of 1 billion. kr. Today's fragmented defence is the result of two security policy premises that have existed in Norway since the Gulf War in 1991. The first premise is that Norway is unable to defend its own territory alone. Therefore, we must make forces available to others, greater powers in exchange for them to come to our rescue if we are to need it. The second premise is that a territorial or regional, local conflict anywhere on the globe can become a conflict that will threaten our borders and our stability at a later stage, and that we must therefore participate in interventions with others in order to prevent such conflicts from threatening our own security. In our view, both premises are wrong, but unfortunately, the structuring, dimensioning and composition of the forces have been governed by these two premises and not by a serious assessment of what is needed to have a forward-looking military defence of the Norwegian territory. Therefore, Norwegian defence capabilities have been drastically reduced. We have received an army based on the principle of legocloss, where the ability to connect with forces from NATO and the Western Union dimension the Norwegian army. Being able to supplement combat elements from other countries has been more important than having the ability to engage in long-term conflict in Norwegian territory in interaction with its own support elements. Today, the premises for the purchase and structuring of the same political parties and forces that have gone to war in Afghanistan and Libya under the strategic leadership of the United States are being determined. It is the same forces that structure the Norwegian defence through the purchase programme of fighter aircraft F35, which are mainly suitable as a forward-looking attack aircraft in liaison with similar forces from the United States and NATO. These fighter aircraft are like a kit, which, through its use of limited financial resources, minimizes the ability to strengthen the army departments and creates an imbalance between the weapons. Red promotes two proposals on the matter, firstly that the Storting asks the government to keep the Bell helicopters on Bardufoss in support of the Army, and secondly that the Special Forces have rolling training with them in Troms, and secondly that the Storting asks the Government to investigate the acquisition of its own modern and digitized tanks set up against modern Warthog A-10 in support of the Army, and subject to it. In addition, we support the proposals No. 3 and 4 from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e645	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e650	Let me begin by stressing that this government's defence policy has one objective: to strengthen defence through increased budgets, to strengthen defence capabilities through modernisation and to strengthen defence capabilities by reforming defence. Increased fighting power and long-term economic sustainability is a red thread in the government's work with the Defence. We have shown this through our work on the long-term plan and now on the land-use proposition, which is to be debated here today. We see big changes happening internationally. Developments take place in both technology and capacity. This affects how we, our allies and our potential opponents equip and organize the military force. The development of rural strengths has been the subject of long-term debate. A thorough review of our own land power has therefore been absolutely necessary before we will now make important choices for the future. Let me remind you that the mission to investigate the county power was further given by a majority on the Stortinget. With the land-use proposition, the government responds to the mission and recommends a number of concrete measures that strengthen the operational capabilities of the Army and the Home Office. It is based on the basis of the long-term plan. Then the government staked out a new course with a historic bet on the Defense. The long-term plan is based on a gradual increase in defence budgets each year. In 2018 alone, we are strengthening the defence budget by 3 billion. kr, a concrete and precise follow-up to the decisions in the long-term plan. There are also significant funds allocated to the Army and the Home Office. The total operating and investment plan is the And as the Stortinge decided, within these significantly increased limits, the land power needs to be further developed. We have a defense that no one can impose their will on us through military use of power. Unfortunately, our security environment has changed negatively in recent years. This affects us – both directly and indirectly. A relevant and modern land power is an important part of a credible defence of Norway. At the same time, it is important that the land force is seen in the context of the rest of the defence. It's the sum of all the defenses – and our NATO membership – that give us a credible defense capacity for the country. Military joint operations are usually complex and extensive. To a large extent, this is about giving an opponent so many dilemmas to deal with at the same time as his decision-making systems go into saturation. The country forces, together with the capabilities of other defence sectors, shall contribute to creating these dilemmas. With our own country forces, we will also secure the population, land areas and critical infrastructure. The use of land forces gives a strong signal of political will and commitment. We have to be clear and prepared on shorter notices than before, and we can be challenged in several ways at the same time. The differences between crisis and conflict will be unclear. We need to organise and equip the land force so that it can perform the tasks together with the rest of the Defense and with allies at short notice. The long-term plan and the land-use forecast take important steps to meet these developments. We are well in the process of stepping up the defence budget in line with the long-term plan. Disagreement on a few individual issues must not be shattered because the main lines of defence policy are largely political. I am very pleased that we were able to come to an agreement with the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and that we now have an agreement on the agricultural proposal. The rural community has confirmed that the Army and the Home Office have challenges in terms of response capabilities, and challenges in terms of combativeness, mobility and stamina – challenges that need to be addressed. The main finding of the rural estate is that it is possible to gain more operational capacity from the resources contained in the long-term plan. The findings of the investigation have shown that there was a need and need for a special focus on the development of land power. Work has provided room for innovation in important areas. Problems that have been discussed internally in the Army for a number of years have now received a thorough professional-military process. Demanding issues of volume, quality, location and equipment were addressed in depth. It means that you can also get together in the Defence Department about the main direction that has now been chosen. The government recommends a number of concrete measures that strengthen the operational capabilities of the Army and the Home Office. One of the most important measures recommended by the government is to increase the operational capacity of Finnmark. We strengthen the permanent presence in the north. Army and Homeland Departments in Finnmark are brought together under a single management. Finnmark Land Defence is responsible for the uniform planning and management of land operations in Finnmark. The efforts of the army and the Home Office in Finnmark will thus be more closely integrated, and coordination will take place locally. In addition, the Government recommends the establishment of a fully-fledged cavaleribatalion on Porsangmoen, based on protective personnel. In addition to the Stortinget decision, this has already been done to strengthen the border guard with one company. These grips will bring together a significant increase in the ability to take early action. It will create a higher threshold to challenge Norwegian sovereignty in the north. We demonstrate the ability and willingness to defend Norway and allies in the north, and this helps to avert and prevent military aggression. At the same time, I would like to stress that this strengthening is fully in line with the Norwegian North Sea policy. It should be a normal situation that Norwegian land forces are located throughout the country. I would like to draw up another of the measures recommended, namely the obligation to protect. The current system of training and training of guardians is adapted to a different safety policy situation. Strength production and build-up have been adapted to long alert times. Therefore, the government is now taking the necessary steps to develop the enhanced preparedness mechanism. We separate the recruitment and vocational training from the operational departments and set up our own training departments. We distribute the crews over several indentations and differentiate the length of the initial service. positions requiring more education and training are assigned 16 months of service to increase the benefits of military training. These changes will revitalise the obligation to protect while at the same time they are essential to address the challenges of rural power with resilience. Differentiation and a longer first-time service increase fighting power and more targeted and cost-effective strength production. We also introduce an active reserve that is regularly trained for up to three weeks a year together with those who serve on a daily basis in the operational departments. The reserve shall be capable of being ready for battle within a few days. This helps to ensure that the Brigade has high operational availability throughout the year. In addition to the investments in the other defence sectors, we make major investments in the Army and the Heimevert. They will all contribute to the strengthening of the fighting force in the face of the modern threat picture. Artillery is an important capacity almost to say regardless of which army you can imagine. Today's artillery wear is worn down, and the government recommends the acquisition of 24 new shots in the ongoing artillery project. This case is now under consideration in Stortinget in Prop. 12 S for 2017-2018, reclassification proposition. The government already chose to start the acquisition of military air defence before the Land Administration, which we have not had since 2004. Air protection is very important for land use. In the long term, the government will acquire additional systems for fighting air protection and, in addition, provide the most vulnerable sections of Finnmark with portable air protection. In the field of rural power, we have taken into account many contexts and dependencies. It's easy to hang out in a single decision and a key investor, but I'm asking Stortinget to remember the whole thing even when we're discussing individual measures. The government first presented a long-term plan and then a balanced land-use proposition. I would like to stress the importance of maintaining economic sustainability. There shall be a balance between the defence structure, tasks and resources. If not, the defense will not be able to deliver what is required to solve the defence's tasks as we expect. There is something the government will emphasize when we implement the decisions Stortinget makes today. As in all negotiations, it will be felt that the result will be a compromise, and some will argue that it is not the professionally recommended solutions that emerge in the political discussions. It is important for me to find out that although there has been disagreement about some of the measures, there is now a broad consensus on the need to bet on defence. The government has taken up issues that have been discussed over a very long period of time, and has now provided a clear way forward for the Army and the Home Office. The government’s proposals will further develop a relevant and modern land power as a central component of Norway’s defence capabilities. The government will come back with a configuration and details of the solutions that are in the configuration. With the decisions that are now being made, I am sure that we will find good solutions that will further develop the Army and Homeland Protection in a way that will strengthen their ability to solve their tasks along with the rest of the Defense and our allies. Finally, I would like to remind you once again that we have started a lot of work on the defence. To further develop, modernise and change the defense is a demanding job, and not everyone agrees at all. It is in our nature that we will preserve it. But the reality of defence policy is not just structure and bases. What we need to preserve is our society, our liberal democracy, a free Norway where we assert sovereignty and have territorial control both on land, at sea and in the air. The defense is the tool we have too few of this. It is essential that we continue to develop further so that the defence can face the threats and challenges of the future. We must continue to strengthen our ability to deal with it unforeseeable. The long-term plan that was decided about one year ago is called “Battlepower and sustainability”. The Land Power Proposition is based on this. The government has put forward a device that extends the necessary land structure width. We recommend a strengthened presence in the north. We need to invest in modern materials. Last but not least, we are changing the practice of protective measures to increase preparedness and operational capacity. In total, the long-term and land-use plans now constitute one defence plan to ensure the safety of Norway and the security of the population in the coming years. The government is committed to continuing its commitment to the defence and to implementing the changes we are about to make here today. It also obligates Stortinget. We politicians must be unreasonable and take responsibility for the implementation of the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e694	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e699	I am also concerned about the whole of this plan. Now there are far more elements inside than what was in the original proposal with which the government came, with a frame of 2.7 billion. kr. I have two questions for the Council of State. One is: will we have an up-to-date cost framework for the entire defence in the revised national budget, as all parties now ask? Because it's obvious that this is going to be more expensive than what we originally decided. The second is, will we also have an assessment of purchases of second-hand Bell helicopters revised so that the Storting can decide? Because it is obvious that the proposal to hire helicopters meets a lot of resistance also at the level of international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e706	Now this proposition is to be adopted later today, so to give all the answers right now on what is to be investigated, I think it's a little premature. I believe it is obvious that we are delivering on costs when we are to inform Stortinget – what it has to say for the overall framework. As for the type of helicopter to be used, I think it's too early to say anything about it. We're going to go in and do a thorough job with the decision made in Stortinget today, of course, and then we're going to come back with knowledge and suggestions in this regard, when we find the time right for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e713	I think it might be a little defensive to wait until the Storting has decided what is now unanimous in the Chamber. We have to discuss what's on the table and what's in the setting. What lies here is that the Storting asks for an up-to-date cost framework for the Defence. I think that all of us sitting here know that this is going to be more expensive than 7.2 billion. kr – or 7,75 brd. kr in 2017-krona. I just ask concretely: will we get such a case to the Stortinget in revised? The second is, will the Council provide a cost overview of how much it costs to buy used Bell helicopters, as I am now asking?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e718	On the first question, the answer was yes the last time, and then the answer is yes when I answer for the second time. To the second question, I think it's actually too early to answer what kind of helicopter we're going to join in that assessment. This is a complex question, and the representative is aware of it – she has worked so closely on this particular matter. We will come back with assessments of the decision taken in Stortinget – of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e726	It might have been interesting to go on with the question that was just asked, about new helicopters, and whether that's how you could think of considering other types of helicopters for the Army than those you have. But we'll have to do that at a later stage. It is often said that there is a lot of bets and that there are increases to the Army through the policy that the government is pursuing. But in the recent budgetary agreement, there is certainly a cut to the Army of 11 million. kr, but HV receives an additional 3 million. kr. Then the question is, is this a cut, or is there an increase? It would be interesting to hear. So I would encourage the minister to take with him the strong resistance that is, against the use of civil helicopters.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e735	First of all, when we say that we're betting on the Army, it's not like if we bring in another million, it's immediately increased bet. We'll bet on the Army. So we're moving the country forces northwards, we're establishing ourselves in Finnmark, we're taking the defense back to Finnmark, and we're defending Norway from the Russian border and southwards, including all the sea areas. I record that it is sometimes problematic for the Troms representatives to get into that picture, but for the Finnmark representatives and for some other representatives it is important that we defend the whole country, including all the sea areas. With regard to the question of helicopters — and civil helicopters — there has been a third use of the Bell helicopters. There has also been civil protection in Troms. That's what we're assuming when we get new rescue helicopters, when we get other helicopter capacity present. So it's like the Army also today hires civilian helicopters to do missions sometimes, if you're going to move personnel or materials. There is nothing new, and we have said that we should also assess in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e742	The council says there's a bet on the Army. Yes, they do by moving on different items, but the agreement to be decided today does not add a further penny to the defense, either in 2018 or for the long-term plan frame. Helids have been named here, but they don't know a cost, don't know how long one should have, don't know if they can stand in conflict – they can't, in relation to international law. I want to focus on tanks, because a buyer also does not own tanks. It is completely unclear how many tanks one sees going to lease or rent, what the price is on them, how long one should rent them. So the new generation of tanks that the government is talking about won't be here in 20 years' time, says industry. Should we lease war chariots for 20 years? I encourage the Council of State to say something about this issue in his post, but he did not. Can the Council of State do something for what a real plan to get modern tanks fast?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e749	In the debate around tanks, many of the debaters have, I record, an understanding that the Army has no tank capacity today. But we do, so it's not about us introducing a whole new capacity. The decision to be made later today is that the government should assume that the land power should have a modern tank capacity, and a requested government should submit a case on the loan or leasing of tanks available from 2019 in order to achieve the fastest possible upgrade of the combat carriage capacity of the brigade. We're going to do that job. We're going to give good answers. But to remove the answers from the pulpit before we have finished dealing with the matter, and before the decisions have been taken – no. It's possible it's too late for the Center Party, but I actually think it would be a bit premature to take that judgment from the pulpit. I think we should do this job thoroughly and take Stortinget seriously. Then we follow the decision made in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e756	I am surprised when I hear the Council of State claim that we have modern tanks today. In 2012, decisions were taken to acquire new tanks. It was the link to the decision to upgrade CV-90 tanks on a digital platform. Today, we have tanks that cannot communicate on a digital platform, and the Council of State says that we have modern tanks today. It's totally unlikely to right. We don't get modern tanks until we don't necessarily get a new generation, but at all costs upgraded the tanks we have today, and the commander wants it. But once again sit one on top and let's listen to those who have cut off, who know what one needs, and who can start getting what the Army actually needs today. I want to challenge again: Does the Council of State think that we have modern tanks today, and when will he get them and not just lease them in? I guess there's no army else in any modern country around us that leases tanks. What time will he get tanks?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e763	The representative of Navarsete probably wants me to say that we had modern tanks, but I didn't say that. I guess it was a burning wish too, since she repeated it four times in her question. I said we have tank capacity today. Everyone agrees that the 52 Leopards we have are older, that they need modernisation, that they don't have armor good enough, that they don't communicate well enough. But that's what's the solution in the land power proposition. We have gone through that project and concluded that spending a lot of money on raising them to something that is just below good, is not the right use of money. Then we will consider the decision that is made, considering how we can be absolutely sure that we have tank capacity in the period ahead. We're going to look at what's going on in terms of loans and leasing. But I have not said that we have a modern tank capacity – that would not be right – I have said that we have tank capacity. And everyone agrees that it has to get better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e770	The Council's response clearly reveals that there is still a great deal of uncertainty after the points that have been agreed in the Storting, both in terms of helicopter capacity, and in terms of the speed with which we can get modernised tanks and other important capacities for land use. Then we have to talk about the elephant in the room, namely that we are dealing with this land power proposition after the Storting has fixed some targets for, among other things. the purchase of fighter aircraft which means that we are in an economic situation where there is a dispute about modest investments and old helicopters. My question is whether the Council of State has intended to remain as the Minister of Defense who, through over-investment in aircraft, over-investment in air defence, drove the defense in the luxury trap and made sure that there was a lack of money for army and home protection, or whether he intends to re-assess the freeze of the fighter flight purchase of 40.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e777	This Minister of Defence has intended to remain as the Council of State that administered, preserved and improved our relationship with NATO. We base our defence policy on our defence force, on being a reliable ally in the NATO alliance. I am recording that SV is out and saying that we are buying twelve extra planes so that we can be out and fight for the United States around the world. That's wrong. That number of flights is calculated from what we need on our own bases, what we need to train at home. So it's taken with twelve extra planes, and we need them to train with our allies out, to a much greater extent than we need them to be out there and – as SV says – wars for the United States. This is about having such good crews and good material and being so good at the same time with our allies that we maintain the defense power and the deterrence we need in a more turbulent world. This is all about defence, and I'm going to be the Minister of Defense who is left to say that I maintained the good relationship we have with our allies in NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e784	I would like to congratulate the Minister of Defence on the fact that we have reached a good solution on the land force here at Stortinget. For the left part, we are also very satisfied with the leasing bit. At least that will make it possible for us to have a slightly more modern tank capacity. My question to the Council of State relates to the fact that we also agree that we should obtain a comprehensive professional assessment of the needs and staffing, training and equipment of the Home Protection Agency to solve tasks, as well as how to ensure the watchkeeping of objects in the coastal zone best after the closure of the Maritime Protection Agency. My question to the Council of State in the extension of that – we have also had this in the control committee during the previous magnification period – is: How does the Council of State think we can best carry out the tasks of maritime protection, and how will the Council of State ensure that essential features in the coastal zone are well secured?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e791	These are several questions at a time. One is about object protection and the processes we've had about how we secure our objects. There, the defense, including the Home Office, spends quite a lot of money on getting better and better in the future. We're also going to report to the Riksrevision on that part. So it's an ongoing process where you're much better today than what you were in 2013, and where we're going to be even better in the future. It means how to use technology, how to use crews – whether we have crews who have the right training and the right skills for this. The second part on Home Protection: There I feel that we know a lot, and then we're going to take that knowledge further in view of the questions we've got from the Storting – how we're going to use Home Protection. I also feel that we are going to be more specific about which parts of the Home Protection we are going to use, if necessary, for object protection in the coastal zone – if there is such a task that should be relevant. We're going to come back with a good answer to these questions, so I expect us to do both the Left and the other parts of the Storting satisfied with the solution that is being chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e800	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e806	Of course, I have to start by answering the claim that came from the Minister, about the representatives of Troms. I want to assure both the Minister and everyone else that all of us sitting in this Chamber represent the whole country, and we are now discussing the country's defence, not the defence of Troms, nor of Finnmark. But then I can add that Troms' side also supports a construction in Finnmark, so we have a good relationship between Troms and Finnmark when it comes to defense. There are a lot of people in the north who are concerned with the Defense. It's about the security of the population, it's about having a good preparedness, and we're going to have a military presence and ally training in Norway's main foreign policy area. The election campaign in the north has largely been about defence. And why? For Troms’ part, it is about Troms being armyed in Norway, we have lived side by side with the Defense for a long time. It's because of its central and strategic location, not because of regional policy considerations, that some have claimed. So it's the professionally-military arguments that have crashed and that governs the argument from Troms. Helicopters have always been the target of conflict, disunity and debate. Then I have recorded that there has been a debate, especially perhaps down here in the south, and a argument that the needs of the Army will help to weaken the preparedness for terror. I also strongly reject that, and I want to show you that you're getting new police helicopters. What you need, for example. on Rygge, is an extra crew. If you need more helicopters, the minister should consider it. The Right Party and the Advance Party have always argued strongly why there is no need for dedicated helicopter support for the Army at Bardufoss. You've been working hard to move the Bell helicopters south. It has also been said that the Army can use rescue helicopters, which you do not yet have in the inner Troms. It has also been said that the residual capacity of the Coast Guard NH90 helicopters can be used. I guess there's no such thing as residual capacity. The Workers' Party has always been clear that when the Land Force was to be treated, the Army needs its own dedicated helicopters to be located on Bardufoss with its own management. And we're going to follow that up. Our government put forward an investigation. Then we had four requirements. We wanted a standing battalion on Skjold. We have said that the Army must have its own dedicated helicopter support at Bardufoss, i.e. a division of the helicopters. The primary wish of the Workers' Party is to want it organized in two squadrons. So we want to speed up new materials, tanks – we need more money in the 2018 budget. What's really at stake, and what's at stake? What would have happened if you had not reached an agreement? Yes, there had been a weakening of the army on Shield. You'd also be the first country in the world without dedicated helicopter support. I will admit that we have not fully achieved the goal, but we have come such a long way that the Workers' Party has chosen to take responsibility and enter into a broad settlement. It has now been established that the Army must have its own dedicated helicopters on Bardufoss. It has been established that the government must come back to Stortinget with a proposal that implies exactly that. You have to come back to that in the revised version. The working party could also be chosen to be furious. We could stand on the outside and criticize. But what would it have helped? There's no other majority in this magnification that could have secured it better than what you've done now. Then everything had disappeared from Bardufoss. Why are the helicopters so important? Well, it's also about Northern preparedness. It's about the Army having to practice with the helicopters daily, both when it comes to evacuation, and when it comes to the movement of troops. But we also have a situation in the northern part of the country with weather and other conditions, such as: winter, go, race. Yes, it's serious, the police say, had you lost the capacity of the Bell helicopters. And then I hear the debate on civil helicopters. The environment at Rygge says they don't want to. I just want to say that I support the strong resistance that is against the use of civil helicopters, also to the Army. We can't have civil helicopters if it's going to be a sharp situation. If you need more helicopters, you can look at the possibility of purchasing more Bell helicopters. To conclude, this decision is not optimal, but we have taken an important step in the right direction. We have not guaranteed that we will support the proposal that is being revised. That means that the government now has to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e829	Let me first take the opportunity to thank the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Labour Party for good and solution-oriented negotiations. Today's treatment of the country's power will provide more fighting power and a better rusty defense for the nation. The country's power will be strengthened and the total capacity of the defence will be strengthened. As a result of the agreement, the financial framework for the long-term plan must also be strengthened. It is therefore important that the strengthening be realised not only through the revised national budget but also through the budgets in the coming years to ensure that the adopted activity and structure are financed. There is a special responsibility among the parties to the settlement. The four main elements of the agreement deal with everything from helicopter support to the Army and the Special Force to increased fighting power for the Home Guard and the mechanized battalions. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of maintaining the operational capability of the Special Forces to meet the demands of a satisfactory preparedness for terrorism. Helicopters to the Army must in this way not go at the expense of the special forces, but rather be an addition. It is important to note that the presence and activity in the north are strengthened in its entirety. This will contribute to increased Norwegian sovereignty and not least to enhanced overall defence capabilities. Both the Army and the Home Guard are getting more fighting power and will make up a much bigger print in the north than today's structure suggests. The Land Power Proposition also assumes that Brigade Nord is further developed as a fully-mechanized brigade with three identical and mechanised manoeuvring battalions, but with different configurations. The Land Power Proposition will provide a strengthened 2nd Battalion on Skold, which will also be converted from an infantry battalion to a mechanised battalion based on mobilising available personnel. This will strengthen the Brigade and provide increased operational flexibility. 2. the presence of the battalion will be maintained by the withdrawal of basic military training under the command of the Army Arms School from the operational departments and now being gathered at Skjold. Also, home security is strengthened by 2,000 soldiers, making up a total of 40,000 soldiers, as a result of the conciliation. This will enhance the capacity of Home Security to solve missions and ensure greater robustness in the organisation. In addition, it is proposed to further strengthen HV-17 in Finnmark in order to meet the recruitment challenges. The work on achieving more fighting power in the Heimeverte is already well under way. The deficit in maintenance, spare parts and emergency stocks has been largely recovered in 2017. There is a rearm in the Heimevater area structure, which ensures that they have access to modern weapons. New field cars are also purchased for the Home Office. This provides increased mobility and is a prerequisite for solving short notice tasks. In this way, we've already built the ground wall. Now the work is starting to travel through the land force proposition. An important strengthening in the north is the establishment of a fully-fledged cavaleribatalion on the Porsangmoen. The Kavaleribatalion is a partly mechanised compartment set up with CV90 to have an independent combat capability, while at the same time acquiring portable air protection for the department. This will increase the presence and reaction capacity of operations in the far north of the country. In sum, we have strengthened the structure and framework of defence, and I would be able to state to the greatest extent that the land power proposition meets the long-term plan's prerequisites for increasing the strength and sustainability of the Norwegian defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e851	First, I would just like to make a comment on part of this debate that relates to the hiring of civilian helicopters into the military service. I have to say that is a very strange matter, as I understand military service at all. That unarmed, unarmed civil helicopters should be able to handle military service in a crisis situation is very incomprehensible to me. I think that there is a need for the Council of State and, to the extent that representatives of the government parties have also made a more concrete statement on how they can defend such a position. My feeling is that there's a construction that they've come to because they won't solve it the other way. I think that should be said from this pulpit. That civil helicopters that are not suitable for such service shall be the way to solve this, I think should be pointed out. The second thing I want to say is a comment on Tybring-Gjedde, who had a history description of the policy of the Red-Green Government and the construction of the Army that should not be left standing. I won't say much about it, but I just want to make the representative Tybring-Gjedde and everyone else aware that the number of employees in the Army doubled from 2005 to 2013. That's the opposite story of the Tybring-Gjedde told. When I take the floor in addition to that, it is in order to come up with a page on this matter and this debate which is not yet concerned and which deserves to be mentioned from the European Parliament. We all agree that democratic defence governance is based on continuous long-term planning. Every four years, the Stortinget adopts long-term plans. The plan is initially valid for the following four financial years, but has natural consequences for the remaining 16 years of the 20 year period. Unfortunately, this government has undermined the long-term planning institute. The current long-term plan for the defence sector was notified by the Prime Minister’s office in late winter 2016. The plan did not come until June 2016. Thus, it was impossible for the Storting to adopt a long-term plan with effect for the first defence budget in the four-year period, i.e. the state budget for 2017. The long-term plan for 2016 was also incomplete, as we know – The Army and Heimevernet were waiting for a new investigation. Unfortunately, the land-use plan we are examining is so late that it will not have any impact on the state budget in 2018. From the Workers' Party we were willing to spend more money on the Army and the Heimevert already in 2018. It would not be the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. On the contrary, in the budget agreement they have cut the defence budget – they have cut the defence budget! With the delayed land-use plan, we are also in a situation for the Army and for the Heimevertet, where the defence plan for 2017-2020 has not been put into effect for either the state budget for 2017 or for 2018. This is the reason why the Storting should be significantly aware of. It is a serious contribution to undermining the long-term planning institute. We still hear, and it surprises me as a new member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, views from defence teams, and especially from the Army's circles, I would say that there are omissions outside and going, and that they feel very subversive. There is no reason to suggest that there are many from the Army who express it to the Storting – compared to other defenses that we have also talked about. Maybe it will sometimes be an exaggeration, but it won't come for no reason. This government has put the Army and the Home Office on hold, having regard to the financial resources they do not receive at the time they should have had them. Gross fixed capital formation was also exposed as a consequence. I think it is necessary to have this said from Stortingen's chair when we deal with this. There is a lack of realism in this respect in terms of implementation, because the necessary appropriations have not been made in the right way and at the right time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e867	Lack of funding has led a defence into a situation where the objectives and tasks defined by the Stortinget for the Defence have not been followed up with money. It has been over many years, but it was this government that revealed the situation in the defense and discovered arrears, unpaid bill of 170 billion. kr. It could have been discovered in the past, e.g. by the red-green government, but it did not. Live Signe Navarsete pronounced to NeverMer.no: ‘I myself contributed to the handling of the two previous long-term defence messages. Everything looked very good. We didn't think it was necessary to focus so much on the defence." You'd think you'd learn from your mistakes, but then one. In the context of the long-term plan, the Centerpartie managed to present a long-term plan which was underfunded by 15 billion. kr. They keep going the same way. They present a proposal for a land authority that they age with a cut in the government agency of 5 billion. kr, without any side effects and further analysis. So the representative Navarsete says that the necessary investments in the Army have not been completed. Yeah, I wonder what the reason for that is. The long-term plan from 2009 to 2019 would increase by 800 million. kr during the planning period. From 2013 to 2016 there was no increase. The consequence of this was that the investments that should have been made have not been made because it was too little money. In fact, the 2018 Defence Budget will be increased by 3.8 billion. kr, and the impact of the long-term plan is already seen in the 2017 state budget. So to this by helicopter: it's raised beyond any doubt that we have too few military helicopters today to be able to give the special forces the transport capacity that the special forces should have, and to carry out the tasks that Bell is doing for the Army today, and civil tasks. But you must not exaggerate the capacity of the Bell helicopters either. This is a small helicopter, it's an old helicopter, and it's an unarmed helicopter, which can only operate within safe areas. And then I have to remind the Storting that in a war situation, the special forces with their helicopters are actually going to be where the battle might be. I find that neither the Workers' Party nor the Center Party have put more money on the table for the helicopter. Well, the Workers' Party operates with an amount of 100 million. kr. What that amount was to be used for, I guess, can only be answered by the Workers' Party itself. It was supposed to be pilot training. We have two places in pilot training in the United States until next year. It takes ten years to train pilots. There are no pilots isolated in that there is a lack, but there is a combination of helicopter hulls, pilots and mechanics to have a concept that goes around. So to SV, if the point was to make less dependent on the United States, you should have ordered more fighter planes. I remember SV that it was actually the Swedish Government that recommended the Stortinget to buy new fighter aircraft, otherwise a wise recommendation. The boldness available in SV and Red to override professional military advice is directly alarming. If there's something the head of defense has said, it's that reducing the number of fighter planes is the last thing he wants. In addition, the number of fighter aeroplanes of 52 is based on a professional assessment where there are three sets of tasks to be performed, an analysis that was revised no later than 2015. Finally – and it is not mentioned: army manoeuvring battalions are now to be mechanised. So we're going to have an army that's going to have better endurance. What does that mean? Well, we get more positions that are occupied, we have more soldiers to use, we get an active reserve. We get an army that has a better reaction ability. What does that mean? Well, we get an army that will be ready for battle in a few days, compared to a few months today. And, finally, we get better fighting power. In this way Napoleon's words still apply: the fire is all, the rest is nothing. New artillery, long-range missiles and new tanks shall be purchased.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e883	Defending the country is the most important task of the state. That's why it's good that it's solved by this government. At the beginning of this period, it is worth lifting a little attention for defence policy. In the State budget of the year, the defence sector is one of two winners, together with transport, in terms of increasing the budget. The fact that the defense is a winner in this government's state budget is nothing new either. In each budget submitted by this Government, the Defence Agency has been provided with badly needed resources for both operation and maintenance and for necessary investments. When the Right took over the Ministry of Defence, the defense was worse off than we thought. The then Secretary of Defense Eriksen Soreide made it an important goal to open up the defence debate and make it known to people, as far as we could, what kind of state the defense was in. After many years of under-financing of the defence, we have now reversed the decline and started the reconstruction. With the long-term plan for the defense, we enable our forces to meet the modern threat scene with new, functional equipment and several hours for practice and training. Now we see that the trend in Defense is turning around. Emergency stocks are filled up, it is practiced and trained more, new equipment and capacity is acquired, and the head of defence himself promised that he sees reason for optimism – words we have not heard in a long time. Today we are dealing with a matter of land defence, and it is clear to me that the job that is now done was important and correct. We now see that it was quite right for the government to make its own investigation of the land force, especially when we know that technology is evolving at a ripping pace. Conflict today is a lot about technology, and that's why it's so important that we spend time buying the right equipment for the future. We've seen too many examples of acquisitions that haven't stayed over time. At the same time, we know that the threat picture we're facing has also changed at a huge pace. If we are to be able to match the threats the Kingdom can face, we need to have up-to-date analyses and plans that form the basis, and we have that now. This is exactly why Finnmark Land defence is now being created, for increased presence and fighting power in the north. The work that has been done has been professionally anchored and carried out very well by the Defense and Defence Manager, with Brigadier Aril Brandvik at the head. It has been interesting to see the political work that has taken place up to today. I am pleased that we have had a wide-ranging agreement in Stortinget that forms the basis for the safe implementation of the defence policy we have agreed on. But in this work, the Central Party has put itself completely on the sideline in terms of Norwegian defence policy. When you stand outside responsible settlements, you also have more to promise the voters, because there is no impact on actual policy. When the Stortinge manages to form a broad majority of defence policy, it is amazing that the Central Party, which aims to be a responsible defence party, does not actually feel responsible for reaching a compromise. The Central Party finances its promises with cutbacks in child protection and airy proposals in its alternative budget that does not hold realism. There's no reason to trust that the Center Party can actually finance its promises. One of the things the Gjørv Commission was very clear was that the anti-terrorism capacity had to be reinforced. When people count, we actually have to have the right capacity in the right place at the right time. When the government and the defense wanted to prioritize helicopters to Rygge, this was just to build a special force environment with gravity. In most assignments, the special forces depend entirely on having the lifting capacity represented by the helicopters. I have noticed that the Center Party has no plan, no wish, no vision for the sharpest part of our defense, namely the Special Forces. It's alarming, all the time we know what responsibility they have – and what tasks they have to do – for our everyone's safety. This work has confirmed several fundamental weaknesses in the current army. The strengths do not have the required response capacity, combat strength and mobility. There are serious limitations to the country's ability to discharge its mission. It can't go on like that. That's why we're doing something about it. A broad majority in the Grand Duchy ensures that we get an army ready for battle in a short time. Norway is given an army to train more and to get better equipment. This is a good day for Norway's national defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e902	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e907	There have been high expectations for the treatment of land power. When the long-term plan was adopted earlier this year, there was considerable uncertainty about the main base for helicopters on Bardufoss. This is one of the issues that has been most involved in the election campaign in North Norway, and several parties in this room have been made clear through the election campaign that this should be returned to just in the treatment of the country power. The expectations in the Defence and North Norway were high, but again we see that the uncertainty surrounding Bardufoss still lives on. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Workers' Party agree to postpone the decision on the helicopter on Bardufoss to spring. The centre party wishes to see a clear decision on this. What is now the proposal for a decision is unclear and weak, and it says nothing about how many helicopters there should be on Bardufoss and on the Back. It doesn't say anything about where the main base should be. The proposal for a decision states that the army should be secured with dedicated helicopter support, but also that consideration should be given to the possibility of ‘alternative additional capacity’. This cannot be understood as anything other than opening the door to the rental of civil helicopters, which the defense has strongly warned against. This is nothing but a new uncertainty about Bardufoss. The centre party wants a clear decision on this matter, but once again you can see that some other parties choose to negotiate this away. I can only say that I am disappointed that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which in the election campaign guaranteed for the helicopters and for the helicopter environment at Bardufoss, has now negotiated this away. We would actually have had a majority in this room today if they had stood by their promises. This land authority proposal and the proposal for a decision are unclear. The centre party has clear expectations for clear decisions, and today, alone and together with the Socialist Left, we are presenting five clear proposals that will bring peace and predictability to the defence. This is nothing but a disappointment for North Norway and not least for the defence and defence of Norway. Just to have said it, the centre party is going to follow this case further with the argus eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e918	There's a lot that could have been done. A number of departments and military competences should have been preserved. The defense should have been reinforced before. There's a lot of one that can criticize parties and politicians for, but all of this is history. Today, we are adopting an important development for the future. I very much appreciate the fact that so many parties are united about the development of national defence. It ensures necessary stability over time, regardless of whether it is the Right Party or the Workers' Party that directs future governments. It needs the defense. In addition, I think the compromise has provided many good solutions for our defence. I'm very happy that Homeland Security is further developed as an independent entity, and that it is not being sautéed with the Army. The Home Guard has a number of qualities that would have been lost if it had become part of the Army. I think it is good that mobilizable army units remain. For a country like Norway, this is a good and economic method of taking care of the fighting force. At the same time, rep departments create an important contact between people and defence. It has always been an important part of the Norwegian defence tradition that the people are united behind the defense. I am very pleased that the Stortinget came to a solution where Brigade Nord gets fixed dedicated helicopter support. An army needs tactical helicopter support to create depth of defense. At the same time, we do not send soldiers in conflict without the necessary ability to evacuate and sanitary support. Now it seems that the Army is being introduced to new artillery, tanks and combat air protection. It will strengthen our ability to solve heavy combat missions. It is also very positive that the garrison in Porsanger and the Home Office in Finnmark is being supplied with portable air protection. At the same time, we should remember that Norway will always be dependent on NATO support. Ideally, we should also have participated in the new European defence cooperation called Pesco. We're going to be aware that 16 months of first-time service will take two years at school. This can lead to good soldiers dedicating duties in departments where we want them. In other words, I believe that this compromise is the best we can achieve as the framework is today. In other words, much is done to strengthen the defense, but there is still a lot to be done. Several of the parties in Stortinget have said that they will increase the funding for the Defense so that it comes up to 2 pst. of gross domestic product by 2024. I hope we can follow that ambition and through it continue to strengthen our collective insurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e937	The most basic thing for any country, any society, is to secure its citizens' security, i.e. preparedness. If there is concern about basic people's security and preparedness, all other policy areas will be subjugated. Now we've been calming down for quite a long time after the cold war, but we see that we're getting more and more complicated security challenges. We therefore need to look at preparedness broadly, in all areas of society, where defence is a very natural part, but we also need to look at how we organise the police, how we organise civil protection, how we organise food preparedness – the broad overall defence gap, which has been an important part of the way we have thought about defence in Norway. The land force is vital, both the Army and the Home Office. We wanted to deal with the country power in the spring of 2012, but the government thought that the recommendations for a future land power had not come far enough, and something completely new was done – the debate was postponed for a little over a year. That's why it's scary to hear today's Minister of Defense in the debate until now, because you'd think the Minister of Defence had clear answers when you've spent a little over a year more. Let me start with helicopters. I think almost everyone who has competence in modern army agrees that you need helicopters. The government has been the most opposed just helicopter capacity to the Army. When Frank Bakke-Jensen is challenged on that today, he is unable to answer what the solution should be, even if you have now used over a year more. It's very weak of a councillor not to have a clear answer to that. In the case of tanks, Frank Bakke-Jensen's answer is yes, we have some and fifty tanks. That's the first answer. Afterwards he says that they are not good enough. That's the second answer. Then he gets challenged: what do you do with these tanks when they're not good enough? No, there is no answer – when they come, whether they should be rented or leased. He will come back with an answer to that, even though he has already used another year and a half. Minister of Defence Frank Bakke-Jensen is challenged by the Left on Homeland Protection: What's going to happen to Coastal Object Protection? Then the jam comes to me the same answer again: ‘I’ll come back with a good answer.’ It was interesting to hear the speech that Odin Johansen gave at Akershu’s fastening earlier this fall: we have to have a defense that works – now. We must have an army that works – now. We need a home protection that works – now. We cannot have a state council that constantly pushes in front of us the important answers and the important clarifications so that we can have a good home protection, a good army and a defense that defends the whole country. We need a completely different bet and a completely different clarity from the government spokesman in terms of defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e954	Just a brief explanation of vote since there have been two loose proposals from the Red Group. We see that proposal No. 7, although it's a little bit unclear, it's different from what the Center Party and SV have promoted, where we go in for a shared solution, which also gives helicopter capacity on the Back. That's why we're going to vote against it, even though we're also very clear that we want to maintain the capacity of Bardufoss. As regards proposal No: 8, I see that the Minister of Defence has already received a very broad mandate to investigate different solutions for the tanks. It is not against us that this perspective is also being drawn into it, but I feel that the Minister for Defence has already received a clear order to modernise and that he has the freedom to come to Stortinget with the proposals he thinks are necessary. We'll have to debate it. That is why we will also be voting against that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e963	It was 'a cruel Salbe', which it is called, from the representative of the Elves in terms of the Central Party and our defence policy. I believe that of those who have shoes on by those who are in Defense today, there are as many people who thought the Center Party has a credible defence policy as those who trust that the government will bring the Defense as much forward as they talk about. There is something that tells you to raise your voice when you have bad arguments, and the representative of the Rivers was quite high and kicked in all directions in his post. It's law, but if it's so constructive, you can discuss it. Politics is about breaking opinions, and about compromise, but also about influencing, so that one builds opinion and in that way moves the plural in that direction. After the Workers' Party agreed with the government and the supporting parties on the long-term plan last year, the opposition lost an important voice to move the government constellation in the direction we wanted. For this reason, the Centre Party has stood as the clear opposition party. When the land force proposition was made, we immediately pointed to four battles: We were to maintain the 339 Quadron on Bardufoss with local control, which today, and a shared solution with the need of the special forces, a gradual escalation of the Home Security instead of a reduction, and we would maintain the Maritime Protection at the same time, now invest in modern digital tanks, and a 2nd battalion that was not a ribba for people. Then it's interesting to see that when the majority today put forward their proposals and have had negotiations on it, it's exactly the same. Could it be a context? I don't know. But I think it's important to have an opposition that challenges government. Everyone thinks the same, and there's not much to think about. The central party's role in defence policy, if we are in a minority here today, is to be a clear voice to the policy we believe in, and draw the others closer. The council said in his article today that he will be thinking like the one that brings us closer to NATO. I wonder when he presents a plan that is not in line with what NATO wants of Norway in the future. We've been criticized because we're not in the deal, but the Center Party cannot be in a deal that's so "wishy-washy" that can be interpreted in so many directions that are so bad and that actually says, as the Council of State has said today, that one should come back to it at another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e980	As many have said, the main task of the state is to ensure the security of our own citizens. In Norway, we need to do so as a partner in NATO and develop the defence in the context, as a partner in NATO. From the left, we have had one concern since the long-term plan was drawn up, and that is that the strategic capacities we invest in – with fighter aircraft, with marine surveillance aircraft, with submarines – would take too much of the defense, and that we would lose the opportunity to have a balanced defence with a strong enough land power. When we dealt with the long-term plan, it was therefore important when we entered – there was also a compromise with the same five parties – that we were given the Coast Guard Command, that we still have a coastal defence in Norway. Then we've been worried about whether what was added to the long-term plan, the 180 billion, would be enough to achieve everything you want, and all the capacity you need in the country power. Then it is important to say that in the land power proposition, there is a lot of positive – that it is based on mechanised manoeuvring battalions, that the Telemark Battalion is given an active reserve, that one has to have a cavaleribatalion in Porsanger and a joint management with the Home and Army in Finnmark. These are good and positive measures. We have on the left hand side had four elements we've gone into, which we want to strengthen. There are more tanks, that there is a need to get modern tanks before 2025, as it says in the proposition. It is to stop the decline in Home Affairs and look forward to looking at the needs of the years to come. It's to make sure the Army still has a helicopter capacity, a support against the Army. And it's about the 2nd Battalion, if it's possible to strengthen the 2nd Battalion with guardians. Then we have entered into negotiations, and we believe that we have come up with good solutions in all four areas. That's the difference between the Center Party, that where the Left has gone into the same elements, we can get to a change. We made a change in the Coast Guard Command and a strengthening of the Army and the Home Guard last fall, and we have had a change of all these elements in the land estate and the land power proposition, which we have to deal with today. After all, that's all that matters. The most important thing is the results we see on the ground. It is clear that these are decisions that must be followed up in the spring budget. But what is just the strength is that it is these five parties that are behind the decisions, and then there are four parties that also have budgetary responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1009	This I think has been a good debate, but there are some strange features of it. It's not like the Center Party claims that we haven't delivered anything after two years, that the questions came two years ago, and yet we don't have the answers. We've delivered the answers. We delivered the proposition -- that was our answer to the challenges that lay here. So the proposition has gone to negotiations in Stortinget. That there will be new proposals to assess things, we respect them, and then we will treat them seriously. When the representative Schlagsvold Vedum believes that we have done nothing, that we still have no answer, that these are questions that have been asked a long time ago, and that we have never had any progress in this, it is wrong. It's the kind of rhetoric that's brought us into it -- in many ways -- that's what we're in. You've been using all the cancers on empty rhetoric instead of being constructive. When the representative Navarsete earlier said that she was not aware that the defence was so bad, it tells me what kind of responsibility you have taken earlier when you have been in position. For those who are concerned that we do not meet NATO's objectives: our long-term commitment and the land-use proposition are largely in line with the plans of our allies – in line with the exercise pattern we are going to have with our allies. In conclusion, I would like to say to this type of debate: I am very pleased that the defence is being debated again. I'm very glad that there's commitment to the Defense. And I totally agree with Liv Signe Navarsette when she says we should be a voice a little bit on the side, that we should listen to the others. That's absolutely right, a debate needs it. A debate needs more opinions, and a debate needs breaks. And then we get the best solutions. But we're also going to be aware of what kind of structures we're working on. What kind of structure is the Defense? And when one representative after another goes to the pulpit here today and says that the commander has said that we don't have the army we need, we should also be aware that the first commander said, was that he was behind the priorities of the chief of defence: I'm behind the priorities of the chief of defence, and then as commander I'm going to be allowed to add that to my people, for my departments, I have these needs. But it's all about prioritizing – it's all about prioritizing. When we get professional military advice, we'll pick them up from the chief of defense. There are many retired generals and admirals who have a strong voice out there today. It's a little amazing sometimes to listen to them about what kind of image they now have of their doing that time. But for us to act seriously, it's actually like following the sequences. It's the Chief of Defense who advises on political treatment with a professional military council, and then we put forward a proposition for the Stortinge which is being dealt with here. That's the way it has been, and that's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1028	The representative of Haarek Rivers has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1033	The representative Navarsete said we got a 2nd battalion rib for people. It's free imagination. We get a 2nd battalion that will be ready for battle in a few days, a 2nd battalion that will be much stronger than the one we have today. In addition, it will be mechanized. That means that it will be wheel and belt driven, and that it will be armored. Is that a 2nd battalion rib for people? So to the representative Borch, the defence in North Norway will be strengthened. The planes are flying more. The coastguard is sailing more. We have a submarine that is constantly sailing in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea. The defense of Finnmark has been considerably strengthened by a cavaleribatalion on the garrison in Porsangs. There's a reinforcement of HV and a hunter's company on the garrison in South Varanger. North Norway, like the rest of the country, is concerned with national defence. That is what has been the guiding principle of government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1040	I am pleased that we have reached a broad consensus. But it requires the Minister of Defence to follow up the decisions that have been made, and I cannot say that I am satisfied with the way this government has followed up settlements, even in the field of defence. One point is the Coast Guard Command. I think it's touching that Elvesuen would be involved and take responsibility for the agreement on defence that we made for a while back, but it says well how well this agreement was. This is where we were supposed to investigate and look at the coastal hunters along with the Marines and Special Forces. It's not done. We asked for an investigation when it came to Bell helicopters – about how much it costs to have some Bell helicopters standing at Bardufoss, or to buy new army helicopters. We just got an investigation from one of them. Now you have to go on with that job and figure out what a shared Bell helicopter solution between Rygge and Bardufoss costs. So I can't say that the management of decisions in the defence areas has submitted trust. However, when we reached a broad consensus, it was because we got a lot of cards on the table. The weakness is that the money is not here all the time. We are talking about the priority of army and home security. Then I just have to say that in the last agreement on the Stortinget that the budget-mates made with the government parties, the Home Guard was cut by 3 million. kr and army with extra 11 million. kr – only in a few hours one night before the adoption of the budget unit. This does not provide trust, because it is absolutely essential for the defence that the structure we adopt is paid from day one. It is quite clear that there must be a new defence framework for Stortinget in the spring of 2018. This isn't enough money. I think we've had a good discussion. It's okay that there's consensus in some areas. I would also like to conclude by saying that SV agreed on essential points when it came to tanks, but it says and falls on whether the money is coming. The government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left were not willing to give money from day one. There is a great weakness in the consensus we have reached here today. We can't keep planning defenses like that. Two years will have to wait for the long-term plan to be put into effect. It won't last. We have to go back to responsible long-term planning in the defense where we get plans for four full years. Finally, a little visit to Haarek Rivers’ history description of defence development in Norway, a history description that is more political, and which is at least not clear in history: it is quite clear that the changes we made from 2000 have led to much better planning in defence, where a base structure has been set in relation to the economy you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1053	The representative Live Signe Navarsete has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1058	It has been claimed several times that I should have said that one was not aware that the defense was so bad. It's a very imaginative interpretation of what I said, because what was in my designation was that there was a completely different security policy situation when the long-term plan was discussed – and that was in 2009, 2010 and 2011. If any of the Right's representatives think that it wasn't, that the security situation today hasn't changed since then, they get to say that, but at least they don't follow in an hour. So to the voice today: the centre party is going to voice our own suggestions, but we're also going to voice for I, V and VII in the recommendation from the plural, because at least that's pretty clear. The rest is so inexhaustible and can be interpreted in such a number of directions as to prevent the Central Party from supporting them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1065	It was the arrival at the representative Kolberg that made me ask to have the word again when it comes to the questions about this with helicopters. The debate on the Bell helicopters in Troms has been different. On the one hand, we've discussed the civil protection that these helicopters have taken. The county councilman and the police chief in Troms have been out and worried that, when that capacity disappears, we will bring down civil protection. That's why we've said that we don't remove these helicopters until we have alternate helicopter capacity present. The civil part shall be covered. It will be covered by the fact that we can have the NH90 from the Coast Guard, and, primarily, we get new rescue helicopters, which are also going to cover that part. So it's gone. Then there's been a debate about moving the armies by helicopter. We have to be aware that then we're talking about a completely different helicopter capacity, then we're talking about large helicopters that can take a completely different load than what Bell does. And then to the third part, we wanted to force the Bell Helicopters on the Back to support the Special Forces, and then we could deploy civilian helicopters in support of the Army in part of the missions they can do in the North: it's not unique, it's not dangerous, nor is it possible to use civil helicopter capacity when practicing an army in peacetime. So the different investigations that have been. Well, there have been figures for the different costs. It may not be quite right what Huitfeldt's representative is bringing here. I fully agree that a planning process should be so good that all defenses can relate to it. But we have to be aware of what kind of work we started when we started it. I fully agree with Liv Signe Navarsete that the security situation has changed, but in the context of the 2009-2012 long-term plan, we built primarily a defence to defend us in Libya and Afghanistan. Now we have to build a defense to defend us at home. Now we're building a defense that defends us from the Russian border and south, including all the sea areas. I see that Huitfeldt's representative is surprised – well, we had a long-term plan that saw a completely different threat picture. It was primarily so that we would have forces where we would be out with allies. We didn't build a lot of defense at home. It's a good rule to build defense in good times. We didn't do it in those years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1080	I just want the Minister of Defence to bring with him what was a crucial initiative in NATO – which was taken by then Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg together with then Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre – who was called the NATO Neighbourhood Initiative. It was launched in 2008, and it was about the fact that after many years abroad, it was important to focus more on our work in the neighbourhoods. This resulted, inter alia, in: in a good deal of proposals for investment in the Army, and in 2012 a number of investments in the Army were adopted. I remember what the Right thought about the proposition at the time: it wasn't binding enough for army and home protection. In the last five years, the Right has basically dealt with it, pushed investment and investigated further. There was no reason. On the contrary, the land-use proposition that we have been presented here is quite similar to the army that we already know. In our day we will have a defence that can both participate internationally and strengthen and support the work against terrorism internationally, and defend itself in our neighbourhoods. The battle lights are also about defence in our neighbourhoods. So the story here presented by the Minister of Defense is simply not correct. It's just as little correct as the story that Riveres presented, that it wasn't until after this government joined, in 2013, that it was put on defence. What has been absolutely fundamental to defence planning in recent years is that there must be a relationship between the structure we adopt and the money that comes. The army was – as the representative of Kolberg was in it – at its very weakest in 2005, when the red-green government took over. The red-green government doubled the number of employees in the Army and made a proposition with several investments – which was pushed on, which was pushed out in time. I am pleased that we have reached an agreement in several areas here today – on tanks, which we have been waiting for. There is nothing to cry out for investment in new artillery – it was decided by the Stortinget in essence in 2012 – but it is important investment that takes the Army forward. But this is no revolution on the part of the government. This is a slow escalation, which is widely agreed upon at Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1099	I believe it is a faulty connection to believe that the neighbourhood initiative automatically led to us starting to build a new defence again. It is also the case that the current Secretary-General of NATO, Jens Stoltenberg, as Prime Minister, stood at Rena and said that the conversion to Defence is complete – before we took over. I fully agree that long-term planning is important. I am also aware that changing the safety situation along the way has made it necessary for us to turn along. It's been a longer job. That's a good job. And it's not like nothing happened the first years from 2013 with regard to investment in and development of the Defense. But we have to escalate it, because we need another defense – for another time. So let's do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1106	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1122	On 17 October this year, the focus documenter "Shit O'hoi" was sent to the NRK. They would, in the UN's international year of sustainable tourism, look more closely at the image of cruise traffic leaving behind in our areas. It is about emissions to air, waste water from the kitchen, baths and laundry rooms, so-called grey water, sewers and residues of heavy oil – all of which go more or less straight into the sea. It happens in the most vulnerable Arctic areas, in our three World Heritage fjords, the Geiranger fjord, the Near Island fjord and the Aurlands fjord, and along the whole coast. This can't possibly be compatible with our interests, such as fishing and seamatation, our brand of clean nature and our environmental ambitions – or good for us who live and live here. Research director Carlo Aall at Westland Research suggests that cruise is the way of travel that skims the most, and that cruise traffic is the type of tourism that grows the most. The Nordic region is an attractive area with unique nature and stable conditions. So we have to assume that more people want to add cruise routes to our areas. There are several challenges with cruise traffic and mass tourism, but today I will focus on the environmental impact of maritime transport, and how Norway and the Nordic countries can use the space for action to strengthen our global position, respond to the environmental challenges and create increased activity and value creation here in the country and in the rest of the Nordic region. The Nordic countries are 25 years ahead of the rest of the world in renewable energy production, but we are not as advanced in using sustainable energy, especially in transport and industry. As a major maritime nation, we have been able to develop technologies for more environmentally friendly maritime transport. Rolls-Royce is the world leader on LNG engines, Mountain Beach in Hardanger developed and built the first battery ferry, and a number of Norwegian shipping companies and shipyards have developed and built world-class ships that cut high on functionality, environmental technology and design. Norway has a very strong maritime cluster that calls for an ambitious and clear strategy for more environmentally friendly maritime transport. The Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council has an ambition to strengthen the Nordic competitive advantage in this area in 2018. To become a leading global player, we also need to develop a sufficient domestic market for testing new products and solutions. The North represents the twelfth largest economy in the world. All Nordic countries have a lot of coastal and long experience in maritime transport. There is great competition for calls and challenging to be the first to make demands. But if we're together, we get greater power and greater permeability. An ambition should be to develop a more modern and comprehensive port infrastructure and common environmental requirements for all Nordic ports. Bergen Havn and Oslo Havn have taken hold. Bergen Havn is currently running a project to measure the environmental impact of ships when they are at berth. Today, there is an international system to measure the environmental impact during navigation, but it is entirely voluntary to register. Bergen Havn wants a mandatory system to be the starting point for environmentally differentiated charges when the boats are at berth. Bergen Havn and Oslo Havn have also installed rural power plants with good support from Enova. Nearly all supply ships today use shore-side electricity when at berth in Bergen City. The same applies to large parts of the short-sea fleet. Seatrans is one of the companies that is leading the development, and Hurtigruten believes that they are going to make it in December. Cruise boats need more capacity, and it is therefore gratifying that in the budgetary agreement Enova has now been given the opportunity to support shore-side power measures also for cruise boats. I must remind you that Bergen is the fourth largest cruise port in northern Europe. Norwegian legislation permits the dumping of sewage 300 meters from land. International law is much stricter and requires that unclean sewage from cruise boats can be dumped at 12 nautical miles from land. There should be a ban on the discharge of sewage, both contaminated and purified, along our coast. It is also appropriate to require that sewage and waste water are pumped into the ordinary sewer system when the boats are at port. Furthermore, bans on exhaust-washing system emissions, NO x emission requirements and only low-sulphur fuel should be required. The Nordic region should have a common strategy to be the world's most advanced in setting environmental requirements and using economic instruments in ports in order to advance the transition. The aim is that only the most environmentally friendly ships are sent to our areas – because the economic gain for shipping companies is significant. For most ships it will be possible to adapt to shore-side electricity. The requirements should also apply to the fishing fleet and wellboats. Technology developments are moving rapidly, and all future ships will increasingly use LNG, hybrid battery solutions, and it is now also planned to build hydrogen-powered ships. In the Baltic Sea, cooperation has been established between Tallinn, Helsinki, Stockholm and Turku for the establishment of shore-side electricity for ferry traffic between these ports. The Nordic region cannot invest in everything, but we should be able to give priority to those areas where we have a clear priority in taking a global position and where, in addition to addressing environmental challenges, we will be able to create new local jobs and increase value creation. The Nordic ports should merge on common requirements for cruise ships, waste water management, fuel management, environmental differentiation of charges and technical solutions for shore-side electricity. Common port policy will also help to obtain more goods from road to sea. So the question is, will the Council of State initiate such cooperation between Nordic port cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1163	First, I want to thank the interpellant for giving us an important and well-processed question about Nordic cooperation. I also want to go through things that happen on other arenas and other collaboration platforms on this issue. Then I'm going to try to provide clues to an answer at the end. This is a question that should be high on the agenda both in Norway, the Nordic countries and the EU. The development of environmentally friendly shipping is important not only for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and pollution, but also for promoting the competitiveness of the entire Norwegian maritime industry. Shipping is also dependent on port infrastructure providing climate-friendly and environmentally friendly services, and private investment in environmentally friendly ships must go hand in hand with investments in environmentally friendly infrastructure in ports. In addition to our local and national involvement, a Nordic, European and global perspective is important. It is therefore positive that the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council has an ambition to strengthen the Nordic competitive advantage in this area in 2018. Our own Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2017 is also right, just how it has been central to strengthening the green competitiveness of the Nordic region. If Norwegian and Nordic ports want to cooperate on common solutions, this could have more positive effects. However, there is reason to stress that Norwegian ports are not state-owned. Most ports are municipally owned. Ports are enterprises operating on a commercial basis, as are Bergen Havn and Oslo Havn, mentioned in the post of the representative. It basically means that it is the ports themselves and their owners who must take the initiative to engage in wider cooperation. With regard to the environmental differentiation of fees and charges for services, Norwegian ports have full access to introduce this if they so wish. In Norway, fees for port services are set on a commercial basis. The government is committed to facilitating the flow of land in several Norwegian ports. This can contribute to both reducing greenhouse gas emissions and improving air quality locally. Over the last few years, we've seen a huge effort on land flow through Enova. Enova launched a land-based electricity programme in 2016 and wishes through the initiative to facilitate lasting market changes, making it routine to link ships to power when they are in port. A few years ago, only some ports had shore-side electricity available. Since 2016, Enova has awarded more than 340 million through four rounds. SEK in aid for a total of 50 shore-side electricity projects. Calls under the shore-side electricity programme are designed as a competition in which applicants compete for a given pot of aid. Enova assesses the applications based on the amount of support required to trigger the project and the potential for use. Enova provides grants for the conversion of ships necessary for their connection to shore-side electricity. However, so far, the NOx Fund has supported most conversion projects. Enova continues its considerable investment, and the government has facilitated greater activity through Enova than ever. In the context of the expiry of the State agreement with Hurtigruten on the provision of maritime transport services on the Bergen-Kirkenes coastal route in a few years, the Ministry of Transport has promoted competition for new agreements. The tender documents require ships serving the route to be adapted for the use of shore-side electricity and to use shore-side electricity in the ports where the infrastructure is capable of doing so. Enova has granted aid for shore-side electricity to several ports that are part of the Bergen-Kirkenes coastal route. This concerns Bergen, Trondheim, Tromsø and Ålesund, and – if I am allowed to shoot in – also little Båtsfjord have received grants from Enova to facilitate land-flow to large ships that enter there. In the case of common technical standards for shore-side electricity, the EU has taken an active role. The EU Alternative Fuel Infrastructure Directive was adopted in the EU on 22 October 2014. While the EU Directive is not incorporated into the EEA Agreement, Norway’s position is that the Directive is EEA-relevant and acceptable. This means that when the Directive is incorporated into the EEA Agreement, the requirements of the Directive will also apply to Norway. This will also result in the same legal framework for all Nordic countries, which will in itself facilitate enhanced cooperation. The main obligation of the Directive is to develop a national framework of instruments setting national targets for the appropriate establishment of infrastructure for alternative energy carriers for transport purposes, including port infrastructure. Another important obligation in the Directive is to implement a number of pan-European technical standards and requirements for accessible user information. According to the Directive, the need for electricity supply for ships shall be assessed with priority in the ports forming part of the trans-European transport network and electricity supply in ports established or renewed from 18 November 2017 shall be in accordance with the technical standards specified by the Directive. The Directive takes into account the profitability and environmental benefits of assessing the geographical location of the roll-out. Although the Directive does not yet apply to Norway, Enova has taken into account the standards set out in the Directive in its support scheme for shore-side electricity plants in Norway. In order to achieve a cost-effective deployment of alternative fuel infrastructure, it is a prerequisite that this is market driven. By introducing common standards and user information, the public facilitates a more efficient market through a level playing field and improved competition. From the government side, we have three main priorities in our Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2017. The first is the Nordics in transition, the second is the Nordics in Europe, and the third is the Nordics in the world. For the Nordics in transition, we have focused on exploiting our common knowledge base and innovation capacity to promote Nordic competitiveness in the green shift. By connecting strong clusters of knowledge and nutrition in the Nordic countries, we will be able to stand firmer in order to implement green transition and strengthen our position on the European and global market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1199	I missed a little more concrete follow-up, because port and shipping are international. The environmental challenges are international. If we're going to be able to act -- we're the 12th largest economy, and we're even bigger as a maritime nation -- and if we're going to be able to take a global position, we're going to have to be smarter than we are today. I see no contrast between the fact that ports are locally owned and the creation of a common structure aimed at environmental differentiation related to the challenges. In the current situation, the industry is actually more ahead than we are as public actors. They want more ambitious leadership in setting environmental requirements and showing ambitions, because they see that it gives competitive advantage. It has been done in the case of LNG, and it is done in other areas. We also see to a greater extent that customers look at the entire value chain and how green it is, from the product being created to the customer. Both short sea shipping, long sea transport and ferry transport want to be included in such a large image. One must remember that port infrastructure is essential for logistics in order to achieve competitiveness in maritime transport. The same applies to the logistics of the goods. I have received feedback from the Swedish Shipowners' Association that a large part of the costs are linked to the efficiency of ports, and that port charges help control which ports they use. One has to be able to cooperate with the municipality and us who sit here in Stortinget and design a code, which means that we push it forward. And not least, I miss an answer when it comes to taking initiatives and cooperating with the Baltic Sea, which has even bigger local environmental challenges than us, and which have been at the forefront of cooperation across the Nordic countries and the Baltic. We could take the initiative to cooperate in finding the same technical solutions and environmentally differentiated charges. I would like to remind you that the Storting has adopted an ambition of zero emissions for all ship types by 2030. It's getting closer, and then we need more power than what I heard in the post.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1212	Fortunately, the size of the debate for interpellations allows the Council of State to make a more effective second post. The question is primarily about Nordic cooperation in this way, and what I explained in the introduction is part of the initiatives that are already under way – what we are doing nationally. Then we should be aware that very much of Nordic cooperation is influenced by the fact that we have some countries that are members of the EU, and through the EEA Agreement we are in many ways connected with the cooperation projects in the EU. When the EU adopts environmental standards and directives, it affects how we operate in the Nordic region. The last time we were in Stockholm with the Nordic Council, an initiative was taken to look at shipping in the Arctic in a Nordic cooperation perspective. We in the Council of Ministers said yes to that, I think it's a good project. That project is going to start. We asked them to take into account that we have just adopted the Polar Code, it is at the bottom of how we should regulate our shipping in the Arctic. It stays there, and then you should simply go in and see what legislation exists, what opportunities exist – where we have Enova, there are other things in the other Nordic countries – and how you can gather, so that, first of all, you get a common piece of legislation, but also what I think is more important, that we have a common set of rules in this context, so that the market part and the competitive part of it contribute to raising the environmental aspect of shipping in the Nordic region. I think it's a very good project. When we get this together, it turns out through other projects we've had, it's obvious that there are very similar laws around that can be used. And then we might get the idea that we have to adjust things we've done before, to make this the same, easier and better in a Nordic perspective. But I think that project should be very good with regard to the question that the representative raises.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1221	I also thank you for the initiative that the interpellant has taken on this matter, and for the positive attitude of the Council of State to lift this up in the Nordic Council and at the Nordic level. And very strongly related to the Nordic region as a region, a very well-looked and looking beyond the international perspective, that is, globally – and also inwardly, towards the national. That is what the Council of State did in its speech. When we think globally, the United Nations Maritime Organisation, the IMO, has played a role, but not a very important role. I think that's very sad. They should play a key role internationally, because this is the United Nations Maritime Organisation, under the umbrella of the United Nations. It goes very slowly there in the yard. But they've done something. The Ballast Water Convention entered into force internationally in the autumn of 8 September. More stringent sulphur requirements come from 2020 and it has been decided that ships can only use fuels with less than 0,5 pst. sulphur from 2020. Today the limit is 3.5 pst. Just now the IMO has approved a proposal from Norway, the United States, Japan and the Marshall Islands on binding requirements for the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from international shipping. It will come into force from 2018 – but it is still only reporting. We need to get quantifiable emission targets as soon as possible. In many ways shipping has become a sacred cow. In fact, both taxation and emission requirements are involved. It has proved very difficult to obtain binding agreements, or at all, to trace the will of international agreements in that system. It is in stark contrast both to the car industry, which is at the forefront of developing lower emissions and better technology, and to the aviation industry. There are some voluntary initiatives that are good. AECO, Association of Arctic Expedition Cruise Operators, is an international organisation for cruise operators up in the Arctic, among others. around Svalbard. They do a lot, but it doesn't cover all ships, and it's a volunteer case. We know what that means. The Polar Code is also important and was mentioned by the Council of State. Also Stortinget says something about this, among other things. in the settings for Report. St. 22 for 2016-2017, International Maritime and Development Policy: ‘The Committee points out that international maritime transport has not been subject to regulatory requirements under the Paris Agreement and has thus been excluded from the EU’s climate objectives. Lack of regulation contributes to the growth of emissions from ship traffic and the share of greenhouse gas emissions is expected to increase in the years to come. The Committee considers that Norway must be a driver of environmentally friendly solutions in maritime traffic and that international maritime traffic is required for emissions reduction.» We know that Norway is a maritime nation — still — that is being listened to in international shipping. What Norway says is noticed. So my question to the Council of State is: Will he contribute to the IMO becoming a powerful organisation and to achieving binding targets for reducing emissions in shipping? It's a very important question, and it's important to clarify what the Council of State sees from tools, drivers, to get this done. But since the State Council Hill-Jensen itself added up to a little bit about measures nationally, I would just like to add that in SV we have been driving to get land-flow bets, environmental requirements in the case of tenders, etc. If not for long – before Christmas – the Stortinget will have the opportunity to say what they think about emission requirements, not least in relation to the two Document 8 proposals that come here to the Stortinget in the form of a call from the Transport Committee, on the offer of coastal routes. It's very important, it's signals, and it's for 10 years to come from 2021. So it's incredibly important, and I'll point out that it's not just about the environment, although it's important to me. It's about business, as was said from the interpellant itself. It's an important factor in selling Norwegian technology, and it's an important factor in the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1247	Thanks to SV. I have conducted many interpellations in the Stortinget, in the previous period mainly on health. It is a little special when it comes to perhaps our third biggest industry, the industry where we may have the greatest potential to contribute internationally to solving environmental challenges – for transport it is always going to be – that it is the debate in which few representatives participate. I don't know what to take as a sign of. Is it because shipping and the coast are too poorly represented, that we're doing a bad job, or is it the Nordic perspective that doesn't appeal well enough? I think we have a common job to do in lifting up a very important industry that needs framework conditions in order to be pushy in the future and exploit the potential. As I said in my previous post, when I meet the industry, I feel that they are more in front than what we as premiscuous suppliers, who talk great about the global challenges associated with climate, do. It is quite right that several of the other members of the Nordic region are EU members, and they are given greater opportunities to influence the IMO as well. We are a great maritime nation. If we speak with one voice, all experience has shown us so far that we can influence, and so have we. It's a patience work, but that's the way it goes, so it's about rigging us so that we can influence far more than what we've done now. At least I will continue to raise this issue further, both through national policies and in the Nordic Council. My co-responsor was in on the coast route. There will be a debate on it in December. But there is also a clear feedback from the industry that they miss that the government went into dialogue with regard to the space of opportunity that was a symbolic issue for Norway, that they would have built ships that were the most environmentally friendly and that took the entire space of action and moved it forward. It's a little bit special when it's in cruise traffic you're now talking about hydrogen, while we're looking for. We did it when we built the battery ferry Ampere, we should also do it when it comes to the fast route or the coast route.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1260	Yes, the representative is absolutely right – the Nordics are in the world. It is simply a matter of being able to make a better mark through Nordic cooperation. I think the representative presented it well in terms of the opportunities we have to influence the IMO, as Nordic and through the EU, so I just agree with what was said. The representative Nävra refers to the taxation of shipping as a sacred cow. I also think we're going to include that part of the picture is enough that if we hadn't had the tax arrangements for Norwegian shipping that we've had in recent decades, we would have had a different technological standard on international shipping. We are a significant shipping nation, and we have had significant technological improvements in Norwegian shipping over many years. Yes, from someone's point of view, taxation may be seen as a form of protection, but it has also had a lot to say technologically because we have developed the maritime cluster we have in Norway today. It's the world's leading. I believe the NO x fund is a good model for this type of device, because there we set out money that the industry itself can use for improvements. We're just checking that that money is used for improvements. That's a good thing. In the case of the fast route offer, it is completely out of my remit. As far as the IMO is concerned, it is within the Ministry of Transport. But then I can be a little freer, because you can difficult arrest me afterwards. I see that the Minister of Finance is looking at me – it should not cost a penny. I have many years of experience working on bids for transportation, primarily aircraft. I fully agree that it is a very good tool to set climate requirements, to set up tenders so that we can set stricter climate requirements. But what is important is to tune the tender in relation to the facts. I have recorded some of the recordings that have come out, and I probably don't share the representative's view, that there is an entire industry that requires stricter climate action in the exact fast-track offer. I also think we should remember that a tender means that it is designed so that we get a competition, there should be more operators. I don't think we're right now about the Hurtigrute offer, that we can just point to the top vision and say it should say, you can deliver it today. I'm not so sure. It is an important route for the coast, for both passenger transport, freight transport and travel. Then I think we should be a little sober when we make demands for what can be delivered quickly. This is completely outside my remit, but then I got a response without anyone going to shoot me down.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1276	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1292	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1308	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1317	The proposals contained in this proposal include changes in accounting laws, etc., which are designed to simplify accounting obligations. There is broad consensus in the Committee that both society and businesses are concerned that businesses are taking advantage of their time for production and innovation rather than reporting. Then there's nothing about the utility and the societal consequences of the different changes. Simplifications must also be real and not result in important information not being developed and reported in retrospect. Accounting obligations are limited: there is broad political agreement to support the proposed changes. I assume that the minority who do not support this will argue for their own vision. The same applies to broad support for removing the requirement of opening balances and balances by formation, merger, fission and transformation from AS to ASA, and also that ASA may fail to draw up balance sheets for merger if all the shareholders involved in the merger agree to do so. The Committee has also noted that the government does not propose to extend the obligation to draw up interim accounts and does not have any further comments on them. When the accounting year is freely chosen, there is no proposal for such a change in what we handle here today. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the benefits of this and whether the benefits are greater than the costs of the state and the enterprise. But as I said, this is not the theme of today's amendment. The same applies to proposals to adapt Norwegian accounting regulation to internationally recognised accounting principles. There's nothing we decide here today, and there's a lot of turbulence here, whether this is really a big simplification process or not, and whether the interests and needs of Norwegian companies are well cared for in a future adaptation proposal. The main discrepancy is the proposal to remove the annual reporting requirement for small enterprises. The Auditor's Association points out that the information provided in the Annual Report is standardised, repetitive from previous years, and of very small value to users of the reports. This means that the Labour Party is very right, but we still find reason not to be able to accept that social responsibility reporting is just a cross. In fact, the social responsibility reporting requirement has been one of Norway's advances, something we've had a lot to boast about internationally. For several companies, this also helps the board to assess the environmental impacts, to think about gender equality, sick leave and the like. However, removing the annual reporting requirement for all small enterprises is a major simplification for enterprises. It's not throwing the baby out with the bath water we're busy with. Consequently, the Workers' Party is in favour of amending § 3-3, under the condition that the social responsibility reporting obligations are continued. Social responsibility, description of sick leave, working conditions, accidents at work, etc. it is important to be visible in the future, as is work on improving the environment for Norwegian enterprises. Then it'll be up to the government to come back to the Stortinget with suggestions on how exactly this point can be passed on and spared without having to demand an annual report for all small businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1340	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her statement on the proposal and the Committee's work on the matter. One of the government's major projects is to simplify business. Simplification work has continued and strengthened since the government of Solberg joined in 2013 – in close cooperation between the government parties, the Left and Christian People's Party on the Stortinget. As part of this work, in 2014, the government set down a selected Accounting Act Committee to go through the Accounting Act and look at how to modernise and simplify the legislation. The rapporteur has outlined the mandate, work and recommendations, and I will not repeat it here, but would like to make some comments on the proposals that the government is making in the proposal. Thus, the main objective of changing accounting laws is to simplify business life – to free up time and capacity currently used in administrative processes, in form fields and for reporting for other purposes in the company. It allows for better resource use, which can lead to further development of the company, and which in the next round can lead to more jobs being created. Whereas, by means of the simplification proposals made in this proposal, which are supported by a majority of the Committee, small companies and individual undertakings will be able to make simplified annual accounts in accordance with a rule on limited accounting obligations; This means that simplified annual accounts may be drawn up on the basis of accounting work already carried out to comply with the rules of the Accounting Act and the Tax Act. It will provide significant savings, at about 20 pst. the current cost, relating to such a simplified solution for the companies that choose to avail themselves of that option. The basis for further operations shall then be disclosed in a separate note relating to the annual accounts. A separate accounting standard shall also be established for that purpose. The requirement to draw up the annual report is removed and the requirement to open the balance sheet when companies are set up or changed, for example: in the case of a merger, it shall not be continued. This information is already available in the prepared documentation, e.g. in relation to the instrument of incorporation. And this is where the greatest saving lies. Proposals to establish access to a financial year other than the calendar year will be returned by the Ministry at a later date, including: justified on the fact that the necessary system support will only be available in 2022. The Accounting Act Committee has also assessed the need for any necessary changes to adapt Norwegian accounting legislation to EEA legislation – more precisely: the Consolidated Accounting Directive. The proposal of the Accounting Act Committee to draw up a new Accounting Act and to adapt to the International Accounting Standard for Small and Medium-Sized Companies, the so-called IFRS for SMEs, is also something the government will return to the Stortinget. It is uncertain whether this proposal would lead to real simplification and could lead to a major change in accounting practices for small enterprises and accounting users. The total savings for business with the proposed simplifications will depend on the number of enterprises that will take advantage of the opportunities that open up, but will be estimated to be below a billion dollars per year, according to calculations by the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. Only changes related to the opening balance sheet involve savings of around 233 million. kr, while savings resulting from the loss of requirements for the preparation of the annual report may amount to 750 million. kr annually. With these simplifications, the government's objective is to reduce business costs by 15 billion. kr by 2017 compared to the 2011 level reached. It is a major step forward that will make the everyday lives of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and individual enterprises in this country much easier, and, as we have seen, it will bring great cost savings. These changes could cover approx. 95 pst. of the current annual accounts delivered to the Brønnøsund Registers, i.e. the majority of Norwegian enterprises. The hearing opinions of the NHO also confirm that this has been received very well in the companies. The legislative decision will apply from 1 January 2018 – that is to say, the financial year for 2017. All those involved in any form of business understand intuitively what these changes will mean by facilitating accounting procedures, and not least in relation to those partly significant costs which are currently linked to the preparation of annual accounts and annual reports for small companies. The decisions we are making in this matter today will be the great Christmas present of the year from the government and the majority in this Chamber to Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1365	I am not going to use my measured speaking time, but I would like to stress that the government is doing what is promised – simplification and rationalisation that will affect thousands of small and medium-sized companies around the whole country. This is a manual for entrepreneurs and individuals who want to create activity and values. That's the important signal. I don't go into what the previous speakers have been talking about very well, and give full support to the other parties in the committee – apart from the red ones, who don't want to be on anything to change things. You have to bring it with you. They're very busy using and promising billions of dollars, but they're involved in simplifying and making it interesting for entrepreneurs, they won't be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1370	The centre party supports efforts to simplify business in order to reduce administrative and bureaucratic arrangements and reduce the costs of business. There are costs that are incurred at times through national rules, but also by adapting to international rules, not least through the EEA Agreement, without having a good enough assessment of what is right for each business and what is right on the basis of national circumstances. To the specific proposals that lie in the matter – first of all, the issue of a limited set of accounting obligations: we support the proposal, while at the same time we note that different hearing bodies have different views on this – not least the Auditor's Association, which also refers to the fact that until there is an accounting standard, this simplification proposal does not have any material content. But we support the proposal and its intention. So to the issue of annual reporting for small enterprises: the central party supports the proposal to remove the requirement of annual reporting for small enterprises. It'll always be like this when you're talking about red tape, when you're talking about reducing demands, when you're talking about simplification, that it could have some consequences. There will be different assessments to make. But if you're going to have a simplification job, you also have to be willing to make those choices. This is a simplification that could affect more than 285000 enterprises. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries, a saving of 735.3 million is also foreseen. kr. I have to say that it was an impressive precise description of the savings potential, but in any case there is a significant savings for the companies concerned. However, on the question of the free financial year, as there is no proposal to introduce it in this case, I would like to make it clear from the centre that we are asking questions as to whether it makes sense to go further. Will a free financial year lead to simplification? Will this lead to less bureaucracy? Will this lead to simpler conditions for those who are going to deal with it in different contexts, whether it concerns good statistics or the ability of the tax haven to carry out its tasks in a good way? These are issues that should definitely be addressed in depth before entering a free financial year. As regards accounting policy and accounting, the Centre Party is very concerned that it is adapted to Norwegian circumstances and the needs of Norwegian companies. We see no reason for us in Norway to undertake work to adapt the Norwegian accounting principle to international law and international accounting principles without a careful review of what serves Norwegian interests, Norwegian business, and whether it will improve the conditions for them. We mark a clear restraint in that area, but otherwise we support the suggestions that I have considered in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1383	I want to stress that SV believes it must be an objective that the requirement for business to report must be as simple as possible. That's why we're going in too much here, but not everything. We at Stortinget must take more into account. We need adequate information on economic conditions, we need to build on corporate social responsibility and strengthen environmental efforts, and therefore we do not support all the proposals that are being discussed today. No one wants to report for reporting purposes, but this is until further legal reporting to promote transparency after testability and social responsibility. So when the government here uses the word'simplification' it actually hides the bulk of the proposal. It's not a real simplification, but rather a removal of a socially useful reporting. Here, the government has, in the SV's opinion, been committed to its numerical objectives of so-called simplification, but they ignore the fact that their proposals are going to have more serious and long-term consequences that could have long-term social costs. The proposal to remove the requirement for annual accounts will make it more difficult for the public to understand basic economic conditions, for example: to detect irregularities in the individual company and may facilitate the conduct of financial crime. The proposal to remove the requirement for annual reporting means that the public is at risk of missing information on things such as employment, gender equality and the environmental impact of businesses. A topic that has given particular attention is that enterprises are now not reporting on precisely these areas, and this is often the only opportunity for businesses to go through these key themes. In our view, the fact that many companies have dealt with this superficially and summarily is not an argument for removing the requirements, but an argument for improving the legislation. It is really quite remarkable that so many parties today think this is a good proposal. I am absolutely in keeping with how social responsibility reporting is to be carried out with this change, which the Labour Party is also voting for. It's also interesting what the Workers' Party will do if this assumption is not met. It is also alarming that the proposals come without an adequate investigation and discussion of the societal implications of the proposals. That means we don't know what it's going to look like. So instead of a leading commodity-approaching, the government has a hope that it will go well-approaching. I think we can be certain that the profit for the individual enterprise is going to be quite minimal, while the potential adverse effects may be greater. And when, in the rest of the policy, we try to strengthen our efforts for the environment, for transparency and against economic crime, it is quite obvious that this could be a step in the wrong direction. We need more accountability and transparency in business, not less. SV will also support the MDG’s proposal on better reporting requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1400	The EU has adopted new reporting rules on social responsibility. Several countries have introduced new laws to strengthen corporate social responsibility. In Norway, the majority will now do the opposite. Today, the government will probably have a majority to remove the annual report requirement for all small companies. This undermines corporate social responsibility. I myself am a serial founder and have run many small companies, and the annual report requirement is not just bureaucracy, but it is an important reminder of what is required of the company to show good social responsibility. There is a cause for reflection, and there is a significant deterioration in environmental and corporate social responsibility that the government is now removing the requirements of most Norwegian enterprises for environmental reporting and reporting on measures to prevent negative environmental impacts as part of the Accounting Act. Is it really the government's intention to weaken social responsibility in Norwegian companies? Nearly 98 pst. by all Norwegian companies are defined as small and now eliminates the requirement to report on the working environment, the external environment, equality and anti-discrimination for all these companies. There is a broad consensus today that industry should take social responsibility, if the objective is to achieve sustainable development. This is reflected in the UN Sustainable Development Goals, in the UN Guiding Principles on Enterprise and Human Rights, in the OECD Guidelines on Responsible Enterprises and, as stated, in the new EU Reporting Rules on Social Responsibility. The purpose of social responsibility reporting and annual reports is to increase the attention and accountability of the board of directors, to raise awareness of the company’s administration and thus to have a positive impact on the company’s work in these areas, as stated in the 1997-1998 recommendation. We can agree that today's requirements for annual report and reporting under Sections 3 to 3 of the Accounting Act are not effective. That's why it's important to make consciousness around sustainability simple and profitable. It is important for both risk reduction and business opportunities, unless the enterprise needs help to identify what it should relate to and report on. And here it comes: something as simple as identifying the company's largest footprint, or what is essential for the company's resource use and environmental impact, for example. the entity makes its own so-called materiality assessment and reports on it in the accounts is a very simple thing that would contribute greatly to the awareness of enterprises. When the current rules do not function properly, it is appropriate to investigate what can be done to achieve the purpose, not disregard the purpose. The enforcement of the rules, as we have for traditional, financial reporting, would be a good start. Social responsibility reporting has an interest in shareholders, investors, creditors, employees of the business, authorities and the public. The trend is that companies are increasingly faced with demands for documentation on how to deal with their social responsibility – not least more and more conscious consumers are demanding the behaviour of businesses in environmental and social issues. Lenders and investors are increasingly demanding and are placing greater emphasis on the sustainability of businesses in a broad sense when making investment decisions. Public purchasers are increasingly demanding evidence of the environment, equality, human rights and working environment when calling for tenders. Consequently, this so-called simplification could significantly weaken the competitiveness of small companies. The consequences of this amendment have not been investigated, either for companies or for society. The Green Party is therefore very critical of a wide-ranging measure to eliminate only the requirement that the board of directors have to report in writing once a year and be responsible for what it says about the working environment, gender equality and environmental impact. Today it is that if it is found that it is not properly reported, it may have legal consequences. The Green Party supports simplification for Norwegian businesses, but here the government prefers the child with the bath water. It would have been much better to adapt the reporting requirements for small enterprises, so that the objectives of the Accounting Act with the reporting requirements for the working environment and environmental impact are met, rather than completely eliminating reporting requirements. I therefore take up our proposal that the government should come back with proposals on how the reporting requirements of the Accounting Act § 3-3 on the working environment and the external environment can be met by different standards and initiatives better adapted to small enterprises. Olemic Thommess had here resumed the president's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1424	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1429	The progress party is talking about entrepreneurs on the break-in and out. For us in Red, it's probably so important to take into account the fair values of the companies, i.e. the employees. That is why it is alarming, we believe, that the Department is promoting legislative amendments affecting more than 90 p.m. by Norwegian limited liability companies, without discussing with one single word what the changes mean for the employees who work in the companies. At one point, the word ‘employee’ is reproduced, and it is in a representation in the proposition of LO’s reply to the case. So this is a department that's run by a party that says they're for most people. The lack of respect for the interests of employees and their views characterises many of the legislative proposals submitted, and there is an important reason why Red is against all of them. The small enterprise category has a misleading term because it covers almost all reporting corporations. It includes all unlisted reporting corporations that meet two out of three criteria — a sales income of up to 70 million. kr, assets carried at a maximum of 35 million. kr and the number of employees in the financial year with a maximum of 50 annual works. Very few Norwegian companies are so large. An entity employing 50 full-time employees whose turnover is 70 million. kr, will be regarded by most as a fairly large enterprise. Therefore, the proposal to exempt those undertakings from the obligation to report on an annual basis is a comprehensive proposal. The proposal for a limited set of accounting obligations has been given a particular narrow definition. The proposal concerns accounting individual enterprises, i.e. enterprises that had total assets of more than 20 million in the financial year. kr or a number of employees higher than 20 years old. It also applies to accounting corporations with more than five unit-holders who have a sales income of 5 million. kr or more and an average number of employees equal to or greater than five annual works. There are a small number of entities that satisfy all these conditions, but there are entities of some significant size that will meet these criteria. The limited reporting obligation means that the entity's annual accounts shall be based on the tax reporting of profit or loss and balance sheet. Since tax reporting is largely based on stencil rules, Red will point out that the specific content is often quite meaningful. In the tax balance sheet, assets may include: so-called empty positive balances are recorded, e.g. vans may be listed at an amount even if the undertaking does not have any vans at all. In our view, this is a relatively pointless accounting reporting. Destroying the information value of the accounts of a small number of quite large enterprises is, in Red's opinion, a very bad idea. Therefore, Red opposes the introduction of limited accounting obligations. With regard to the annual notification for small enterprises, we point to the hearing replies from both the LO and the Trade Union, both of which stress that the annual report is an important document as a source of information for non-accounting users. The report contains verbal descriptions of the situation in the enterprise as well as statutory information on sick leave, working conditions, accidents at work, etc., which is important information for employees of an enterprise. In addition, it is possible for representatives of the Governing Board to formulate views on the activities of the annual report. In some cases, this has proved to be important for employees’ directors’ representatives. To sum up, it is highly critical that the proposition completely excludes the employees, value creations, the need for insight into what is going to happen to the company in which they work, and sees it in itself as a weighty reason to oppose the proposition's proposal for changes in company law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1444	In this proposition, the government proposes legislative changes involving simplifications and reductions in the cost of reporting agents. I am pleased that a clear majority of the Committee on Finance is in favour of the proposals. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has estimated potential annual savings for the three simplification measures in the proposal up to a maximum of 1 billion. kr. I aim to bring the changes to the law into force on 1 January. The proposal to remove the requirement for an annual report will reduce the financial and administrative burden on small enterprises. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has estimated the potential annual savings only for this proposal for just over 700 million. kr. For many small enterprises, the annual report often has the character of being an obligation-exercise, and standard formulations that are considered to be of little relevance to the enterprise are often used. But I would like to stress that even though small enterprises will no longer be required to prepare and publish the annual report, they must of course remain conscious of their responsibilities after, among other things. the environmental protection law, the equal opportunities law, the environmental information law and the pollution law. The advantage of a limited set of accounting obligations is that the production of information for accounting purposes will be almost free of charge to the accounting officer, since it is based on work undertaken to fulfil the obligations under the accounting and tax legislation. Annual accounts under a limited set of accounting obligations shall be published and will have a good value for information. A full reporting obligation would normally have little added value for small enterprises. The main argument for not continuing the opening balance sheet requirements is that the benefits are considered to be small, as information is already available from other sources. Founders, employees and shareholders find the information that is important to them, in the instrument of incorporation, documents drawn up in connection with the increase in capital, the draft terms of merger, the fission plan and the statement by the Board of Directors. The draft terms of merger and the report of the Management Board shall always be made known to the employees of the companies. Access to the financial year other than the calendar year would require the necessary system support, which could not be in place until 2022 at the earliest. So we have to come back to this question later. In summary, I am very pleased that such a broad majority is joining these simplifications. We need to be concerned with systematically implementing simplifications that allow the flora of small businesses that we all have in this country to use their scarce resources to develop the enterprise rather than to report on all demands that are believed to be reported by small businesses from time to time. This does not mean that companies are running away from their social responsibility even if we make simplifications in accounting law. I believe that all companies – whether small or large – that want to survive in our tough competition must operate according to good standards. Most of them do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1458	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1463	We are in complete agreement with the Council of State that simplification is good for business, and that they should spend time saying things other than sitting down to report. Sees the Council of State that it is of value that the Board of Directors takes a position on this matter they have previously reported in the Annual Report, which deals with environmental impacts, which are related to gender equality, which are related to sick leave and so on.? Will the Council of State take with it the recording that the Labour Party has made to find a proper system, so that the board continues to go through it with social responsibility, but without one having to continue to impose the full annual report?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1470	We need to separate a little from what is really being discussed – now we have put forward a proposal to simplify accounting legislation. What the representative really asks is how a board should manage its tasks towards an enterprise – what questions is it relevant to ask, what is the focus? I believe that any person who can choose to sit on a board has a separate responsibility to perform his or her job, asking relevant questions about how to develop a company further. What we are discussing here in this matter is about simplifying accounting laws, especially for small businesses. I believe that this is a good simplification measure that does not weaken the second wave of laws and regulations that make demands on our companies, whether small or large.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1475	Paragraphs 3 to 3 of the Accounting Act require reporting on social responsibility. That's what we're going to go in to get rid of. The point is that I share the view of the Council of State that it is not certain that an annual report is the right way to report it. Because there's a suggestion, and you like to go in and see what you've written before, and then you say that equality is in order and internal and external environmental impact is in place. But what we are looking for is that the new requirements of the EU must also be met in the future. That is why we ask the Minister to look at how to get a searchlight on social responsibility so that we also meet the new requirements that the EU is making, while Norway will still be at the forefront when reporting precisely on these requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1480	I can provide more than complete information to the Storting about it, but I want to say, I notice that there is a broad majority who agree with the proposals contained in this proposition. Then I have also noticed that the Workers' Party has its own special comment relating to what the representative is just discussing. Then I also noticed from the post of the representative Stoknes a reference to EU legislation. But let me stress that although we are now making simplifications for small companies, large companies will also continue to prepare statements on social responsibility in the annual report or in another public document. It follows from the Accounting Act. Large enterprises shall explain what they do to take account of human rights, employee rights, social conditions, the external environment and the fight against corruption. So there are strict requirements that are listed. The fact that we are now making simplifications in this area is a real improvement for the reporting agents, without users losing material information. But as I said in my post, it does not exempt companies from dealing with other legislation. It's still stuck.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1487	As I said in my post, the Central Party supports the proposal to remove the requirement for an annual report. At the same time, it is important that small enterprises continue to take social responsibility into account. I would like to ask the Council of State once again to confirm that it is a focus that the Council of State also wants to have. So to the accounting principle: the Ministry of Finance does not take a position on the legal committee's main proposal to adapt Norwegian accounting regulation to international accounting principles. However, does the Council agree that it is important that, as a general rule, one takes into account the needs of Norwegian enterprises, Norwegian public opinion and Norwegian conditions and that it is taken into account when assessing this issue further?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1494	First to the issue of social responsibility: I don't think there is any disagreement in this room that all companies operating in Norway should take their necessary social responsibility. We can rather discuss how and in what way to oblige companies to follow it up. I really believe that on this issue, the Central Party very much agrees with the government that this is a good simplification that does not relieve the companies of exercising their social responsibility. So to the last question, there are several questions that the government has not taken a decision on yet, and that we will come back to related to accounting law. But I believe that in everything it does, the government should be concerned with facilitating legislation in the best possible way and ensuring Norwegian companies, Norwegian interests, Norwegian conditions. I don't think there's any disagreement between us either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1501	Until last week, I was a professional at BI in green growth and competitiveness, and my question is to remove the annual report with demands for social responsibility statements. Does the Minister of Finance think that such a formal reminder of an annual assessment of environmental and social risk factors will not help businesses to compete?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1506	I noticed that the representative Stoknes has actually highlighted his experience as a series founder both in yesterday's debate and today's debate. I think the vast majority of those who start businesses in Norway are concerned that the company will succeed. If they are to succeed, they must survive in a tough competition, and then they must also have a significant set of criteria in place to meet it. In today’s situation, those who are going to buy the company’s products, services – or whatever it may be that they are delivering – make quite strict demands. If the companies are unable to deliver on it, they will not survive in competition either. That is why I believe that any manager will take care of it – if they do not manage.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1511	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1529	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1545	No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 8–10 is the second time legal proceedings are under way. The President will propose that matters be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1585	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 8-10.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1597	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1606	It is voted on by representatives Jonas Gahr Støre, Marit Arnstad, Audun Lysbakken, Trine Skei Grande and Knut Arild Hareide on the election of members of the Nobel Committee, Document 8:82 S for 2017-2018. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. Storing representatives or alternates may not be elected as members of the Nobel Committee. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Majority asks the Presidency to ascertain whether there are other matters that should be taken into account in the assessment of who cannot be elected to the members of the Nobel Committee, including the limitations that should be made in relation to seniority in international organisations. The investigation should be carried out during 2018.’ The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1629	President! I announced earlier today that we would vote in favour of item No. 2 in this document 8, so that's all right. What goes on retrospectively, we will vote against, but what goes on investigation, we will vote in favour. So I ask that we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1634	That is the first time that the motion for a resolution has been put to the vote on point No. 1st@item: inlistbox The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1648	It is then put to the vote on paragraph 1 of the motion for a resolution. 2nd@item: inlistbox The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1665	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-5, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 6, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7 and 8, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from Red. Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government asks the government to keep the Bell helicopters on Bardufoss in support of the Army. Special forces have rolling training with these in Troms.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for and subject to the acquisition of its own modern and digitised tanks set up against modern Warthog A-10 in support of the Army.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1702	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to maintain 2nd Battalion as infantry battalion, set up with at least one standing company with support element on Skold.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1717	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to provide a sufficient number of modern and digitised tanks with a view to fulfilling Norway’s obligations towards NATO for a modern mechanised brigade by 2024. The government is asking for a financial framework as soon as possible with the final approval of the deposit in 2019 at the latest. Solutions should be sought in a multi-national framework and possible strategic cooperation should also include Norwegian involvement in the development of the next generation of tanks. Until the purchase of modern and digitised tanks has been completed, Stortinget asks the Government to borrow or lease temporary modern tank capacity to the Army.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1732	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a gradual escalation plan for the Home Security so that in the long term, the Home Security will increase to 50,000 soldiers.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue the Sjöheimewertelt’. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1756	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a future split solution for helicopters, with at least nine helicopters dedicated to the Army in the north and at least nine helicopters dedicated to the special forces, and returning to the Stortinget with funding for 2018 and further funding plan in the revised national budget. The Government is asked to assess the purchase of second-hand helicopters if necessary to ensure adequate support for the Army or the Special Forces.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the continuation of the 339 Quadron and 139 Airwings located at Bardufoss.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1917	It shall be added over VII. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1931	It shall be counted against II, III and IV. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1945	It's going to add up to VI and X. The Greens have announced subsidized aid. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1959	It's going to add up to IX. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1974	That's right over VIII. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1988	It's over I and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e1998	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e2155	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e2167	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e2181	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e2190	During the debate, Per Espen Stoknes put forward a proposal on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for follow-up to the Business Social Responsibility Report (St.meld. No 10 adapted to small enterprises.» [[e.g. UN Global Compact, GRI, EMAS]] The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e2461	It is added to Sections 3-1, 3-2b, 3-3 and II, Section 5-5. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e2475	It is then voted over the rest of I and II and III-VI. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e2489	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that Red will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e2504	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e2545	Case No. 8–10 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to Acts 1, 2 and 3. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-05.ana.ud41e2574	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
