ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e28	The representatives Freddy de Ruiter and Svein Roald Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the East-Agder County, Odd Gunnar Tveit, now takes the seat. The application for welfare leave is submitted by the representative Rasmus Hansson on Wednesday 31 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Une Aina Bastholm, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e61	Une Aina Bastholm is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e77	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e86	Since this is the last oral question time for the Prime Minister in this period, it may be natural to go back to some of what she thought was most important when the period started. One of the things that captured her at the time was a graph showing that the payroll in Norway had increased – people had better advice. The problem was that productivity growth had not increased as much. The Prime Minister then said to the VG: ‘This is one of the most dangerous gaps available for a nation.’ She referred to this as a beast. ‘The red-green gap’ hottest. And that gap was going to be closed, not by the payroll going down, but by the productivity going up. It didn't work out that way. The gap may have become smaller, but for completely different reasons. Real wage developments have flattened out. What was of productivity growth at the beginning of the period is now almost zeroed out. Siv Jensen said in 2014 that if productivity increased by 0.2 pst, it would in 2060 mean more for the economy than our oil wealth. In the perspective notification of this year, the tone is different. Jensen has turned around and reduced the estimate of productivity development by 2060. The truth is, we're no longer as good at using new knowledge and technology and organizing work in more efficient ways. Wages have fallen, and productivity has not risen. Instead, we now see that a new gap develops in the graph. The OECD reports that the gap between productivity growth in Norway and the OECD average will increase over time. In 2014, the Prime Minister called this beast the ‘Red-Green Gap’. What name will she give the beast now, in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e104	Productivity development is extremely important for a country, not least for a country of our kind, which has high welfare costs, which has a high wage level, and therefore requires us to be smarter in the way we organize. Therefore, raising productivity growth has been one of the important investments for this government. That is why we set up a productivity commission, which went through and looked at the areas that need reform and change in our society in order to bring about an increase in productivity in the years to come. So we know it's going to take time. But we know that there is one thing that is necessary to achieve this, it is that we spend the money in the public sector in a better way, that we increase productivity gains in the public sector. This is why we have implemented a number of reforms, reforms that will make the local government sector have fewer municipalities, will be able to provide better services, reforms that will enable police to deliver better services, have more depth in the proceedings and in the investigation of issues, because they have larger professional environments. We have made a major change within the higher education system, with stronger and more solid educational institutions, such as, for example: is one of the areas where the Productivity Commission pointed out that we need to raise quality. This will produce results in years to come by making better use of resources and higher productivity. When we're through a low economic situation, we often won't see productivity improvements of the same type, just because there's a lot of people who haven't quit or tried to hold people, despite the fact that production has been lower in this period. I'm absolutely sure this is going to be one of the most important things we're working on. The government is well-informed about what should be the elements to create a higher degree of productivity. It is more investment in research and innovation. These include: that we have raised the level of innovation measures 3 billion. kr higher than that when we entered this government period. These are measures that provide a return over time and will contribute to more jobs, but also to higher productivity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e117	The crew didn't get a name. After four years, the results are clear. The productivity growth has flattened out. It's falling like a rock. In 2014, the Prime Minister criticised the Workers' Party, which drew out the tripartite cooperation as a feature of the Nordic model. She said, ‘But it is not the most important thing. What has separated us is that, despite too high wages, we have managed to increase productivity as much." The interesting thing is that what has made this gap a little smaller is that the social partners have, through tripartite cooperation, taken responsibility and delivered results. It's made this possible. It is crucial for a well-functioning economy, and it has raised the Prime Minister from the concern about this gap, but without the government having delivered on its part, namely visible results for productivity development. This experience tells a quite different story from that of the Prime Minister in 2014. My question is: does the Prime Minister worry that we are now seeing a combination of almost non-existent productivity growth – not weak, but non-existent – and, at the same time, lower employment rates, fewer jobs, and they are less productive after four years with her as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e131	The Labour Party continues to pretend that we have not had an oil price shock against the Norwegian economy, the biggest 30-year shock directed at the Norwegian economy and with a loss of almost 50,000 jobs. If you take it out and try to compare it with periods before and after, you obviously lose a very important part of the picture in the Norwegian economy. I believe that the actions we have implemented – what we are implementing on innovation, what we are implementing on research and development, what we are doing on enabling technologies, when we create a digital 21 strategy with the parties to better use digitalisation in the future – will contribute to productivity growth. What we need is investment in new technology that helps us get more productivity in the future. That's where the growth is, the big industrial, new steps that are going to do this, and the government is doing a good job with a good strategy, in fact, with the parties and business, to get this going in the future. Vulnerability with high wages without productivity growth is high. What we've actually seen now is that we've had a massive correction after the high wage growth in recent years. But thanks to the fact that we have responsible parties, it has been better than anything else could have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e140	There will be follow-up questions – first Marianne Marthinsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e145	I have to say, I think it is little humility to trace to a Prime Minister who made himself very high and dark in 2013. At that time there was no trace in Erna Solberg's reasoning that productivity growth had fallen throughout the Western world in the wake of the financial crisis. It was Jens Stoltenberg's betrayal, and it was a red-green gap. Since then, productivity has fallen. Now the Prime Minister in his reply to Gahr Støre says that we are going to see the results of her policy in the next few years. However, in the perspective report, expectations for future productivity growth have been adjusted downwards for each year until 2060. The only reason the gap has not grown larger is that the parties have taken responsibility through very moderate settlement, that is, that the tripartite cooperation, which the Prime Minister claimed was not the most important, has worked. The question is now: does the Prime Minister think that her statements are good?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e152	Yes, I believe the statements are good. What we have just seen is that we have had to adjust wage developments significantly in recent years, because it was not sustainable with the high level we had in wage developments compared to productivity developments. Then you actually get a tighter paycheck later, and you get a consequence of it throughout the Norwegian economy. If we're going to get productivity growth, there's two things we have to do. One is that we need to invest in new enabling technologies. We have that as a priority in the Research Communication, we contribute more money to the actions we do. Since it was in stable side rentals under the previous government, we have had a significant boost to innovation in the future and to innovation. It will have more effect on this. The other thing we have to do is modernize the public sector. The Labour Party is going to choose to reverse the modernisation measures. They have no new reforms that contribute to anything, so I am a little surprised at the criticism of a party that has set itself the main goal of not making changes in Norway in the future. There are changes in the public sector we need if we are to increase productivity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e161	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e166	History was also one of my favorites in higher education, but I thought I'd try to look a little ahead. The efficiency and red tape reform is one of the reforms that we have been working on in the budgets, and finding targets for increased efficiency and productivity in the public sector is not always the easiest thing. But what we've seen, and I expect the Prime Minister also to experience as a challenge, is that the directorates, what you can call "Lag 2" in the government, have, despite political objectives, had an increase in the number of employees. Despite what we have done with the efficiency and red tape reform, the number of employees has increased. So my question is, how does the Prime Minister measure the impact of the reform called ‘Effectiveness and red tape reform’?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e176	At least I don't want to measure it by counting the number of employees in total, but what we see is that in the departments there are slightly fewer employees. We see that the growth in the directorates is now lower than under the previous government. But we see that in some parts of the outer ether, which can be defined as a 'layer 2', it's an increase. But the increase comes in almost all of the areas that this government, along with the parties on the Stortinget, has prioritised. In fact, when we're going to build more roads, more engineers are going to be employed to plan those roads. The same applies to the railway. When we're going to have more policemen, we also get more policemen. There is a significant increase in the number of police officers out there, but there is also a significant increase in the number of police officers working in the midst of this team, who were first to deal with the whole refugee and asylum crisis, and who, secondly, are to contribute to the implementation of a police reform and the major ICT efforts needed to get a functional and good police. The third area we're looking at is the research institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e183	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e188	Erna Solberg said that her big project was the conversion of Norwegian economy – and what has happened? Oil and gas investments have gone from just over 200 billion. kr to approx. 150 B.C.E. kr this year, while housing and property investment has now reached over 200 billion. kr. Industrial investment – calculated for 2017 – is just above 20 billion. kr. So the conversion has not been to build industry, but it has been to clean up apartments, build more dwellings. Is Erna Solberg satisfied that we have the lowest investments in Norwegian industry in 30 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e195	We see a certain rise in mainland Norway's industry, but it is clear that measured against the fall we have in industry and investment in the oil sector, we are unable to balance it. There is no doubt that the oil price shock and the change and efficiency that we have had have had had an impact on the level of investment, including in the form of ring-effects for industries linked to deliveries to the oil and gas industries. We have been exposed to the greatest shock to the Norwegian economy in 30 years. This, of course, has a ring-fenced effect on investment. But we see that investment figures for parts of the traditional industry in mainland Norway are now rising. That's good. We hope that it will be permanent, and that it will go on up. We see that investment in companies' research activity is increasing. The figures show, among other things: that the incentives given by the government — through the TaxFUNN and other schemes — are used by companies to prepare for a future that will allow jobs to be found in future in parts of industry other than only in the oil and gas industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e200	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e205	There is no need to tackle slightly low employment rates and productivity, value added and innovation challenges in Norway. The challenge, however, was at least the same during the previous government, and instead of spending the big money on the main lubricating the red-green thin to everything and everyone. The government's proposal for a revised national budget contains important proposals that can increase the level of employment, increase productivity and value added in Norway, especially in relation to the founding and smaller enterprises. The Left is very pleased, and we hope to be able to strengthen the profile of the constructive negotiations that are currently taking place. My question therefore concerns those who are more persistent outside the labour market and the challenges of low employment rates. How can we in the years to come, do a great deal of work to get more people in? In the context of the perspective communication, the Left has called for a reform in which the general rule is to ensure income through adapted work, not only through passive benefits. Does the Prime Minister agree that this is an interesting track to solve an important challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e214	I believe that for those who are unable to work because of illness, activity and work are better than being passive. I totally agree that's the way we're going. This is also the reason why the government has had the advantage – together with the Left and the Christian People's Party – of having a job for social welfare recipients, and we start with them for less than 30 years to prevent you from growing into a system where you stay out of work for a long time. That's how you can get yourself out of work. By not taking advantage of your cancers, you lose confidence and get more and more mental problems. This is something we have to take a lot more seriously, and it's some of the government's taking seriously. That's why we're a little bit tighter than many other parties wanted us to be, and that's why we're doing this. We believe that being clearer and tightening also helps people to help themselves in the long run. So we do not disagree with such a reform, but it is clear that it must be done gradually. Then we have to be careful -- there are some people who are sick, and who need to have good arrangements outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e221	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e226	What we see here is a prime minister who meets himself in the door with a click. If what she said four years ago was right, she must also start taking responsibility for the fact that her own policy has not worked these four years. It's record money use, tax cuts that don't work, so the situation is that the share of investments in enterprises is the lowest in 25 years, while housing investment is on the roof. Erna Solberg adds to an economy where speculation is going to pay off more and output less. That's the truth after four years. Young businessmen invest in housing instead of investing in businesses. Then my question is, When is the Prime Minister and the right-hand side going to admit that we have a tax system that favors property investments in front of investments in jobs? And more importantly, when are they going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e233	I'm trying to do something about it in every budget we deliver to the Storting by reducing the wealth tax. The taxes on wealth are some of the things that make it more difficult to invest in risky investments in Norwegian business, which we have contributed over a long time to channel more money into, in particular, business buildings and property providing better returns. In fact, I am not among those who complain that we build more dwellings in Norway. I had hoped that SV would not do that either. We have a record of starting up homes now, because we need more housing. Over a long period of time, housing prices have increased, especially in the Oslo area, because population growth has been greater than the increase in housing. We should actually be satisfied if we build more homes now, because it helps people get a home, and it will help to reduce the growth of housing prices in the future. So I think maybe we should look at the context of the policy. I'm for more housing because I'm for people to have the opportunity to buy their home.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e240	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e246	The President of the United States, Donald Trump, has recently visited, among others. Saudi Arabia, the G7 and NATO Summit. The President's announcement along the way has a clear address to the home public, which is not new. What is new, on the other hand, is the considerable uncertainty created by NATO allies, free trade partners, climate politicians and in the human rights environment. There is uncertainty created in many countries with an open economy that still has a high interest in free trade. Can we expect more protectionism? There has been a lack of certainty among climate policy makers. The President of the United States has yet to decide whether the new administration will refuse the Paris Agreement. It's created insecurity in the human rights environment. The president of the United States prioritizes visiting Saudi Arabia and a gigantic arms hall to the country. There was a lot of focus on military upgrading, but little on democracy and human rights. Prime Minister Erna Solberg himself was present at the NATO Summit. President Trump failed to confirm the US commitment to Article 5 of the NATO Pact on Mutual Assistance – or the principle of one for all, all for one. Chancellor Merkel and Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabriel in Germany took it as a bad signal. The time when we could trust others to a certain extent is over, that's what I've been through in the last few days,' said Angela Merkel's chancellor on Sunday. My question is therefore: with Angela Merkel's insistence, does the Prime Minister agree with what the chancellor says, and does the Prime Minister share Merkel's assessment? Does the Prime Minister think that, following the NATO summit, there is a greater uncertainty about the United States as far as NATO commitments are concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e259	I think it's important that we distinguish a little bit between the different parts of this problem, because there's been a lot of meetings lately. I believe that there is no basis for saying that the NATO Summit signalled some deterioration in American commitments towards Europe. I believe that is an overinterpretation of what was said both inside and outside the meeting. In the light of the clear commitments repeatedly given by the US Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense in the past, this spring – and not least the fact that American senators visited Norway were very clear on their commitments – there is no reason to say that the United States is withdrawing or having less interest. But they focus more on us being involved in building up more power at European level as well. It is important to read Merkel’s opinions also in the light of the fact that Germany and France have an agenda in which they want to open and strengthen the security and defence policy dimension in the EU, which will also be easier to do after the United Kingdom has withdrawn. It's a line that we haven't primarily been so excited about, because we want NATO to be the main road – but it's an emphasis on the question. What is more clear is that Trump's support for multilateral joint actions, for the climate agreement and for the work of UN institutions on sustainability objectives will be under considerable pressure in the future. So in the other major international issues, I think we need to prepare for a United States that is taking less of an international common commitment through multilateral organisations and is more concerned with trade, for example. on a bilateral basis. That means building our strategies as countries based on security cooperation directly against allies, while at the same time strengthening it within the NATO summit. That's what the government started with. Then we need to strengthen our work on climate, international sustainability goals and work on the UN's future objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e268	I thank you for your answer. But precisely because of the clear signals given by both Congressmen, members of the Senate, the US Secretary of Defense and the US Secretary of State – they have been so clear – it surprises the President of the United States not to show the same clarity when he comes to NATO summit and has the possibility to do so. The United States is the world's leading superpower. No one has a defense capacity like the United States. Their defence budget is almost ten times greater than Russia's, and NATO is also in a special position. But it's not just defence capacity the United States has been important. They have also been when it comes to what we might call the values we want to define foreign policy: democracy, human rights, women's rights, freedom of trust. These are the values that the United States has raised. With the headline ‘America first’, does the Prime Minister now feel that self-interest goes beyond the important values common to the United States and Norway — whether or not they have done — in foreign policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e280	There is no doubt that, under the current President, the US places greater emphasis on bilateral trade solutions than on multilateral Community solutions. Nor is there any doubt that they are involved in market shares of sales, economic development and job creation, despite the fact that they are currently setting job breaks in the United States, and the unemployment rate is much lower than it has been in very, very many years. There is also no doubt that we see that we are back in a situation where there is a more demanding relationship, for example. between UN bodies and UN assistance. We have to go back for a while to be at the level we're at now, related to it. That means we have to add our strategies. But I'm very concerned that we shouldn't pull it over to be the security policy work, because my reading is not that we can draw the same kind of conclusion about NATO and the US engagement here. They have a strong and clear commitment that we should be involved in rusting up and spending more money, but not withdrawing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e287	There will be follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e292	I've always been happy that the Prime Minister is active on social media, but Trump may be a little too active, so I'm glad that there's not so much of the policy that's run there. But Trump just wrote a twot where he announced that he would make a decision related to the Paris agreement on climate. Last weekend, the G7 countries tried to reach an agreement, but one did not even agree on a formulation around climate change, so one agreed to give Trump better time. Chancellor Merkel in Germany said to the media that she thought it was extremely problematic, and let me add that I am pleased that Europe's strongest country has such a capable and wise leader, who led on these issues. But what I want to challenge the Prime Minister is this: What does Norway actually do — diplomatically or otherwise — to help the United States become part of the Paris Agreement? And if they choose to go out, how does the Prime Minister view the consequences of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e301	We strongly encourage the United States to continue to participate in an active climate policy and to be part of the Paris Agreement. Formality is that if you want to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, it is a complex process and will take several years. The problem is to have a president who will not then implement policies that contribute to the objectives of the Paris Agreement, and that will be a challenge. On the other hand, American business is now in the forefront of many solutions. They are committed to finding out, there is a great momentum in more sustainable production, but also on less climate pressure. It is a movement, large cities and several states in the United States also have a strong momentum, with their own legislation and stricter requirements, where California has been ahead for many, many years with partly stricter environmental requirements than Europe has. This means that there is a movement and results, and therefore we also see that emissions have fallen in the United States, despite the fact that strong policies have not been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e308	Anniken Huitfeldt - for the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e313	At a time like this, it is an advantage that there is such a broad consensus about NATO membership in Norway. The Prime Minister said three days ago that it is too early to depreciate NATO cooperation. It may be a little defensive, but I think they still agree on the most important, and that we note that the Americans are increasing their military presence with more practice and training in Europe. The Prime Minister's party, the Government and the Workers' Party agreed on the long-term defence plan, which means strengthening the defence. At the same time, however, there is a growing need for training and defence and security cooperation with countries such as Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Denmark and not least our neighbours Sweden and Finland. What will the Prime Minister do to strengthen defence and security cooperation with the various NATO countries, as well as with Sweden and Finland?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e320	We have, for a long time by the government, developed more bilateral cooperation alliances within NATO with some selected countries, through enhanced cooperation and training and training. We've done it to Germany, where our purchase of new submarines and their purchase of missiles makes us get better military, industrial cooperation. We also do it through training, and our participation in Lithuania now during a German-led operation to secure Lithuania in the future is part of it. We have a lot to do with Sweden and Denmark and our closest partners. We're hosting the biggest exercise in NATO next year in the North, just to make sure we get along and practice on the special conditions that are in Norway. We build within the NATO alliance also a stronger cooperation maritimely with the United Kingdom, and we build it with the United States on important capacities and other, to make sure that we have reciprocity to help each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e325	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e331	The Prime Minister underlined the continuing complexity of the United States — including in climate work — from state to state and from city to city. There are many who want and will much, but at the same time there is no doubt that international leadership in climate change will be weakened, at least with the signals that Trump is now giving. The Prime Minister is concerned that the United States remains a strong ally within NATO. However, there is no doubt that there is a challenge for Europe both to contribute more and to take greater responsibility internationally. There's a lot of evidence that in several fields, including free trade, we have an American that's retreating more and getting less involved. When one creates a void, there is a danger that others will fill the void. Then my question becomes to the Prime Minister, who has also been at the Nordic Prime Minister's meeting: how will she contribute to Europe's greater role and that there are no other powers taking that role?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e336	If we distinguish between security policy and multilateral cooperation otherwise, I would say that in security policy it must be Norway's strategy to keep the United States close to us all the way. With our special safety challenges and with our maritime aspects, it is important that we have good cooperation with the United States, because it is they and the United Kingdom that have the greatest maritime capacity and the ability to contribute. In other areas, I agree that Europe – and the rest of the world – must play a greater role. That's one of the reasons why we're working a lot on some of these development issues related to the G20. It is the fight against diseases, climate initiatives and others. We are invited as guest countries to the G20 meeting, and one of the jobs we have had is precisely related to these issues: raise the global agenda to find common solutions between different alliances of countries and try to involve several countries in the work, where Europe under the leadership of Germany plays a greater role in this, and where Norway contributes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e343	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e348	Regardless of alliance policy, or perhaps just because of alliance policy, there has been a consensus in Norway for many decades about not having foreign bases on Norwegian soil. The consensus seems, without any particular public debate, to have gone into disintegration with the establishment of an American base on the Guards. How will the Prime Minister comment on the news that a permanent American base on the Guards is being assessed in Trondelag?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e353	We don't have an American base, we have a training operation and a practice operation, where you alternate with different people who learn how to handle warfare under our climatic conditions. We do not have a case on our table yet relating to the question of a permanent base. Our assessment is that today's solution, where we have a rotation, where there are different forces that get trained and trained just under our circumstances, is what's right, and our assessment has been that this is completely within Norwegian basic policy. We have also explained this well to the different organs of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e358	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e363	Looking back at the period Right and the Progress Party has run Norway, a slight impression can be that each state council has stood up in the morning and thought: What is it I can centralize today? Once the Minister of Justice has woken up, he has stretched out a little, shook his body a little, and thought: Isn't there a little too many cannibal offices in Norway? I think I'm going to put down the county janitor's offices. Or when the Health Minister has stood up in the neighborhood apartment, he has brushed his teeth and thought, Isn't there a little too many local hospitals? We have to try to lay down as many hospitals as possible in the districts. Or when the Minister of Agriculture is done with his coffee cup, and he's thinking: it's too many small and medium-sized uses, we just have to have the big ones. Or when the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has felt the weight of the Nav offices, and has thought: the only sensible thing is to drop the Nav office in District Norway. Or when the municipal minister has woken up in Bærum, rubbed his eyes and thought: This country has too many municipalities – I don't want to put a number, but it's going to be fewer. Prime Minister Erna Solberg has run the most centralizing government this country has ever seen. And now she and Right plan how this centralization can continue, if she wins the election. The Prime Minister has repeatedly stressed from this pulpit that volunteering is the line of the municipal reform. Now we have the answer -- force is the answer. It is clear in the new right-wing party programme that force can now be used. Can the Prime Minister now be honest that the Right will use force, and will force through fewer municipalities in the next period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e372	It is possible to try to ridicule the motives of others in politics in the way that the representative Schlagsvold Vedum now made it seem funny. I think we should discuss with some seriousness what challenges we have in this country. It's a challenge if we don't have the quality of the services we give people. It is a challenge if we are not able to achieve our objectives of enough agricultural production, for example. Our government councils stand up every morning and think: How can I make Norway better for the inhabitants of this country? How can I make sure that the children who are subjected to violence meet a police officer who is able to investigate that kind of thing? How can I make sure that my municipality provides people with a good enough service, that there is good enough competence to ensure that there is no one year difference in school attendance between the weakest school municipalities and the best school municipalities in this country, as we have been documented, to ensure that there is good enough quality on – and that we raise – the whole school and its development? That is the objective of the members of this government. They are working on a plan for Norway to improve – we need to provide better services, we need to create more jobs, we need to reform this country, so that in the future we can help the weakest in our country meet a welfare society that can help them in an even better way in the future. We're going to use new technology, so we're going to spend less money on managing the country, and more money on providing services. When a user spends less money on managing the country, it means that a few fewer people sit in an office to do manual work, but we use the opportunities of digitisation to do it. But that's why we've also thought that it has a centralization effect. That's why we have a strategy where we move jobs out of Oslo. We've moved out more now, in the last four-year period, than what the previous government did, and we have a plan with the Left for further relocation of jobs. That's the answer to this question. That's what we're going to do, and we're also going to do in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e381	The answer is only rhetoric, because Prime Minister Solberg has in every budget tried to cut the stakes on broadband around the whole of Norway. She pushes the weakest children in front of her to argue for centralisation and economies of scale on absolutely every issue. This government has had one answer to everything in the public sector, and that is size. The answer is that there have been over 1,000 more bureaucrats in the department and directorate in Oslo and the area around, according to the Evening Post – that is the answer. After the Right own Conference of Rapporteurs, we were contacted by several Right-Rapporteurs who were very concerned because Jan Tore Sanner said that the reform should be reinforced, that more coercion should be used, that is not over. Can Mrs Solberg cancel what Mrs Höre's own rapporteurs have said to us, that Mr Sanner has announced that it will be stronger in the next period in order to force more municipalities to merge?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e386	We believe that the municipal reform should continue in the next period in order to work out even better solutions for people, and I believe that the examples of those municipalities that merge, that show what they can do, and how well that process has actually gone in the vast majority of municipalities, are going to be examples of follow-up. But it's a black paint of what the results of politics are, just like the black paint from the Central Party before this government joined. I hope that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, remembers that he said that if I became prime minister, there would be no sheep in the cabbage. Well, we're now self-sufficient in lamb for the first time in a long time. During the time of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum as Minister of Agriculture, you had to import considerably more lamb, so there is more Norwegian sheep in the cabbage. I guess that's a good example of the rhetoric that the representative leads towards a choice. I think we should respect each other in this area that we have an intention to make Norway better. We may disagree with the instruments, but the strategy of ridicule for Battle Violence Vedum seems to me to create only discredit for Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e391	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e397	The centralization of this government has been completely systematic, and it must be allowed to point out, either one does it with a little sense of humor and glimmer in the eye or one chooses to do it in other ways. Over the entire period, the government has launched one centralisation project after another, and one of them has been the police. We are now in the third major police reform of 20 years, and everyone has significantly more centralization, but no more impact. Even police surveys show that they believe that government reform provides less police and less local security. But in the police reform, the government seems to be failing both in the districts and at the top. The police directorate has also stepped out and doubled its operating expenses since this government joined, and the police directorate has deliberately failed to follow up, among other things. the co-location of emergency centres. The police director believes that politicians have had unrealistic expectations and little knowledge, and they have done their best to train the process. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with a police reform that both leads to poor preparedness in the districts and a police directorate that can be seen as a state in the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e402	We have started to measure according to quality criteria in the context of police reform, and it shows from the results of the first few years that the response time to the most serious issues has improved considerably. This means that it is now more likely – after we started work and clearly measure it – that in serious cases the police are moving faster than they did in the past. It is actually a quality indicator and an example of results. If you read the papers now, we'll see that the bilgeman after the bilgeman stands up and says that the results of the change that has occurred, they now see, with a more active and present police out there. This reform is going to prove to be much more successful than the predictions of the Centre Party about it. But it's important that we make sure that we get the resources there, that we make sure that we raise the police budgets, as this government has done, on the basis of the goal of reaching two policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. It now turns out to go up against that goal, rather than that it began to fall under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e409	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e414	We want the best for our country at all levels. I want to ask a question about the regions. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with and does she think we have found a good balance in the proposal for a regional map now available? In Trøndelag, there has been a long process, owned by people who live there, which leads to the two Trondelages joining together – to some extent it has also happened in Agder. Otherwise, it basically looks as if there is resistance locally and in the elected bodies to all the proposals for aggregation that have been. Most recently, it is in the West, where Rogaland did not join, but where Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland had the intention to join forces. Now, it looks like the intention agreement they had is not fulfilled, and that's how resistance gets there as well. Does the Prime Minister think that the map she has, where the large region around the capital – not with the capital, but around the capital – with 1.2 million people should balance with Moor and Romesdal, with a little over 200 000, with a Rogaland standing alone, is the map of the level with which Norway will live in the years to come? Is the Prime Minister satisfied with that process?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e423	This is a process in which the regions themselves have been asked to take the lead in how to do so. There has been no central drawing process. There have been many processes that have been good, but there are also some processes that have not been good – but it is too early to depreciate that the Western state will not stand by. For the two government parties, this is a challenging process, because we believe that we do not need a third level of government in Norway. We think you could have a different solution. But we have, because we have an agreement in Stortinget, followed up the agreements we are signing and set up a regional level as such. Have we found the perfect geography? Yes, it depends a little on where you see it from, and what tasks are. I believe that being in ten or eleven regions means getting more powerful regions and getting better cooperation, with the tasks that will now be carried out, and with the responsibilities that are in the regions. And then we'll probably see some limit adjustments later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e432	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e437	What each state council thinks and says to itself in the morning, I don't know, I don't have such a close relationship with the government, but I understand the concern that many reforms can give too much centralization. The Christian People's Party has been involved in reforms in the transport sector, in the justice sector and in health – because we thought it was our right. But we've also said no to the coercion of municipalities, we've said no to the closure of local hospitals, we've said no to the income system that I think could become too centralizing, we said no to join a holistic defense plan where the Home Office was slowly but surely stepped down, and we said no to put down tax offices. We also find it worrying that the decisions we made when we discussed agricultural policy in this Chamber five weeks ago are not followed up when we come to the agricultural negotiations. My question is: does the Prime Minister's government seem to have listened well to the complaints from the police offices? It has been 72 complaints, and three have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e446	We have listened to the arguments about the changes at the LEN's offices, and the Minister of Justice has been in favour of three of the complaints, where it is considered that there are good and distance arguments attached to it. I think it's a follow-up to Storting's decision related to the police reform. It is the case that you have to look at the factual reasons, not on the number of complaints, because there are complaints where you have wanted to maintain police offices that have little opening time, or that have very short opening time, and very little presence. We have to get good enough quality on the police services, and the more you commit to having an open office, the less resources you're left with to be able to spend on real investigation and presence out there to fight crime. I understand that changes are always demanding when they happen, but looking at the results of what are traditional districts, unemployment is low, it goes better in those areas, and it goes better for agriculture in this country, so there are many good results as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e455	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e460	The bourgeois parties have agreed that power should be moved down and out. We have a common understanding that society is built from below and up and not from above and down, as other members of this assembly seem to think. Despite that, we have had different approaches to these objectives, including: do we have different inputs in that we think it is necessary to have three levels, unlike the government. So the government, in part together with both the Left and the Christian People's Party, has conducted a more offensive district policy than any other government. We are now completing a regional reform in which the parties have come together to find good solutions that will give us a large-scale decentralization of power – a process that will in many ways be the starting point for even more power shifted closer to the inhabitants. There are many questions about night and what thoughts a waken with in the morning, and then I want to ask the Prime Minister: what is her vision when she wakes up in the morning, for more decentralization of power in Norway in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e469	I wake up in the morning with good memory – even though it is a long time ago – on being a local politician. And I remember that as local politicians, we were able to find good, practical solutions in our municipalities. I want more decentralization of power back to the municipalities. I want less detailed management of the municipality's services. I believe that the municipalities are better placed to find good solutions. But I also know that we need to have a quality in the municipalities to be able to make the difficult decisions for those people who need the most public, those who are the weakest. Many of these discussions are not about the issue of centralisation or decentralisation, but about whether we have respect for professional competence and the need for breadth, and how important the public sector is in our society for those who need help most. It's not like it's durable if you have some knowledge of an area, a little course to be able to work on this, if there's a multi-functional disabled person, or someone else, who needs the help. Then you also need expertise, and then you actually need bigger municipalities to create good deals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e479	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e484	On its excellent list of Centralisation Councils, the representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, could continue with the Minister for Fisheries, who is waking up and wondering what he can do for the major trawlers today. The government has thus triggered a coastal uprising in North Norway with its proposal for the distribution of cod when the trawling obligations fall away. Coastal fishermen need 7 pst. The cod trawls need 93 pst. So there too is this government a government for them at the top, for those who have the most from before, and not for the people of the coast. We also know that freezer fish from trawlers do little to help the Norwegian seafood industry, and therefore the land-based industry is also frustrated by this. SV believes that fishing rights should go to the coastal fleet so that they can create life, activity and jobs in our coastal communities and in the north. Why does the government turn its back on the coastal fishermen?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e493	This is, after all, a proposal in which we move quotas – if implemented – from trawl to coastal fishing. It is not a distribution of cod quotas as such. In principle, coastal fishermen have the absolute largest share of the total quota in Norway, but in the event of a discharge of obligations, more will be returned to coastal fishing in order to ensure that more resources are available locally than from the trawls that currently have an obligation to deliver. So there's a slightly special way to put the question together, when we know that the largest share of cod resource is already going to the coastal fishermen, and so they get more through the scheme we've proposed. Now the matter lies in Stortinget. It's a matter that, for some societies, will have a challenge. We have therefore ensured that it is possible to establish good new business related to this. But it's like we have to make sure that we have profitability in all terms, if we don't end up freezing the fish off our coast instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e502	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e507	Many politicians have, over the years, had a great heart and a strong commitment to the children growing up in poverty. No one chooses their childhood, and most of us believe that all children who grow up in Norway should have the opportunity to participate in social activities in line with all other children — whether they are able to join birthday parties, participate in the SFO or participate in leisure activities. When Lars Sponheim left as a party leader, he said that it was the poor children he would wish he had done more for. We know that removing child poverty cannot be done with a pen stroke, but there are many things we can do to move in the right direction. The left, together with the Christian People's Party and the government, has also done a part in this field. Together we have, among other things: a grant scheme for child poverty of nearly 200 million. kr. We've got free core time for the kids who need it, i.e. the three, four, and five-year-olds who need it. We have a trial of the free kindergarten and the SFO. We've strengthened the school health services and health centers. There's just a few examples of what we've got together. But in the left we're concerned that we have to go even further to lift these children. Among other things, we have in our new programming programme, that we want to give free kindergarten and SFO to all children in low-income families, just to give all children in Norway the same opportunities regardless of their parents’ finances. We have also decided that we want to replace the cash support with a waiting allowance, just to get parents out of the poverty trap. So my question to the Prime Minister is: What does the Prime Minister think is the most important thing we should do in the next growing-up period to raise this group, so that fewer children in Norway grow up in poverty, and so that more children have the same opportunities in their lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e518	I believe that in the fight against child poverty it is very important to have two thoughts in your head at once. One is that we have to work intensively with what is the cause of child poverty, the other is that we have to remedy where there is actually child poverty. On the first, I think we have even more steps to take in the years to come, because the number of poor children is going to increase in the next few years because the aftermath of the great influx of refugees and asylum seekers, and family reunions, is going to hit one of the most vulnerable groups. The main reason why poverty rates have increased in recent years is precisely that group, children of immigrants. That's why it's important to have a good integration policy, and the main principle is that we have to try to get everyone to work. In fact, parents who are at work are the best guarantee against child poverty. The second part is about continuing to work with the government in the field of drugs and mental health, because there is also another major and important source — making sure that we do not get mental problems into a new way to face poverty challenges, because you do not have a connection to work, and working to turn around and help deprived adults and children at an early stage. It is worrying that four out of ten immigrant women are out of work. That's a big number. We also know that there are very many lonely dependants in some of these groups. This means that it is important for us to have a good integration policy with demands to build around it. I also believe that we should at the same time address poverty for children, and that is why it is important to build on a few more free services. How much we can afford, we have to assess in each budget, but we're not against thinking about a future with a free kindergarten offer and a free SFO offer. Gradually, we should do it for everyone. But it's a question of what we can afford every year, and then it's right to target in the beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e531	In the left we say that everything starts at school, or whatever the question is, knowledge is the answer. Knowledge is also the key to lifting kids out of poverty. Young people who feel that they can pursue their dreams do so, and they support the society in which they live. Much of the unrest and uncertainty we are witnessing around the world is due to the fact that there are societies where not everyone has the same opportunities. Both the United States and the United Kingdom are examples of countries with classed societies. They have some of the world's best universities, but these are not available to everyone. They are available to the rich, and they are available to those who have opportunities in life. In both of these countries we see negative trends. We see that people make choices because they don't feel that life gets better for themselves and those around. They must have more jobs because the payroll is low. They feel that they are not allowed to participate in the increase in wealth that others have had. They feel a relief. What does Prime Minister Norway think can contribute to the world in order to ensure that the world community moves forward and not backwards, that there are no ghettos and generations of young people who cannot pursue their dreams and do not support the societies in which they live?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e540	I believe that the world has adopted a map for that kind of development in the future. That's the 17 sustainability goals we've adopted. It obliges each of the 193 countries that have signed on to it, but it also obliges us in the international world to follow up and oblige us to take action at home to achieve the goals of our own. It is not least a question of building on the principle that is important in sustainability objectives 17. «We do it together» – we have to bring civil society, we have to bring business with us, we have to bring with us the whole of society to promise this. Job creation is challenge No. one in many of the countries where there are now major challenges to extremism, where there is high youth unemployment, and many are reporting. Then job creation is challenge no. one in many of these countries, creating investment and stabilising. But when it comes to solving the challenges in the United States and drawing parallels between Norway and the United States, I want to warn you very strongly about it. Because in Norway, we're talking about a group of people that's not that big, but that might be 10 pst. which has fallen completely outside, and which we need to work with to get into the world of work, while in the United States there are really a lot more people who are in the situation that they are not experiencing economic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e547	It opens for follow-up questions - first Abid Q. Raja.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e552	Every day thousands of parents feel happy when we send our children to school. Children learn mastery, feel self-confidence and become more confident. One of the best things about school is SFO, says children and parents. It's where, through play and fun, they crack social codes, build friendship and experience multiple skills. They are safe and seen by good adults also outside the classroom. And that's what we all want for our children, that they should be happy and satisfied inside. We learn about early work and that a good childhood lasts life. Then we have the chance: we can further contribute to creating a good childhood that will last for more children. We can even out the odds for as many children as possible. The left has contributed to the take-off of a babysitting centre, and free core time from the child has been introduced for three years. This year, the Left has also brought the government to a 20 million trial scheme with free SFO. What else does the Prime Minister need before she is willing to agree that all children in Norway will also participate in the SFO regardless of Mom and Dad's income?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e561	There are many good proposals that can in principle be agreed on, but sometimes it can be difficult to find space in the state budget and other. I am concerned that there are two things that are important with the SFO. One is, of course, the access for everyone. The second is the quality and content of the SFO. It is also important to focus on, so that it not only becomes a parking lot, but that it actually becomes a good offer to the children who go there. The sum of good things we're going to do is often a little bit larger than every year's government budget requires. That's why it's important to start, and I agree that we're starting with an attempt at the SFO. We also make sure to look at the arrangements related to the nursery service. But then I believe that the most important thing we do is to make sure that we have enough resources to do well early and systematically follow-up of children who are starting to fall out of the way. For the source of being out of work at an adult age and entering a negative trend, start when we do not follow up well enough on the educational offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e571	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e576	Early in 2014, I asked the Council of State Horne about child poverty. Horne then answered: ‘I record that the fight against child poverty has been an area of activity for the previous government without success [[...]] She also clarified that the Solberg government was going to take this issue seriously. The year after, you cut 600 million. kr in the children’s allowance for the disabled, a group subject to high child poverty. We see the results after four years of Solberg government. As the prime minister himself said, child poverty is increasing. Is there any reason, then, to define the policy of the Solberg government in this area as a failure?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e588	It's not. We must have some realism in the political debate. Child poverty in Norway is increasing because we have had a large influx of refugees. We have many asylum seekers, we have a great family reunion. We have too poor integration policies in Norway. Let's do something about that. We're using 0.5 billion. In order to ensure that children feel that their parents are coming to work, new integration measures in the year’s budget will be taken into account, and therefore a different starting point for their children’s lives. But we need to have some propensity in the discussion about what are the reasons why, for example. child poverty is increasing. It is primarily a question of the number of asylum seekers and family reunifications who have come to the country in recent years. So I want to stress that I believe the Anniken Huitfeldt said something very wise in the fall of 2013, related to part of these inequality discussions. She said that many of the measures we have discussed today never come into that type of statistics or other. That means that many of the measures we are currently working on will not be readable by a statistic. There will still be poor children, even if they have been given a vacation, even if they have had free kindergarten – but we have done something about the experience of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e599	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e604	We know that living in long-term and persistent poverty has long-term health and psychosocial consequences. The government has focused on early interventions, both at school and in health. It is important that we also think of early efforts to grow up in poverty in Norway, when we know the rise in poverty, which is beyond living in poverty, and what this leads to for children and young people's childhood and youth. My question to the Prime Minister is, What is the government's early effort for poor children?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e613	Early efforts for poor children include: the measures we have put in place in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the Stortinget, which have helped to reduce the experience of being in a family with poor finances. We've increased the aid schemes to 193 million. kr. This means that there are several children who get a holiday experience, because there are several who are on vacation. There are more people who can be in kindergarten because they receive free nursery services, and there are several places where you can borrow equipment and participate in sports activities. We see that the cooperation that we have signed with volunteering and everyone else in the local community about, about giving access and the opportunity to find solutions, so that all children get a leisure activity, thrives in the Norwegian community. But early efforts are also, of course, about preventing falling out of school and not being able to follow up. That's an important part of what we're doing now, and I'll say this is the biggest school effort in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e622	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e627	The Prime Minister leaves behind a political legacy of massive misinvestment, a record in oil money use combined with tax cuts that do not work. Worst thing: the government of Erna Solberg has been a government that, by decision, has shown that they think it is right that the differences in power and wealth in Norway are increasing. It's a disparity government that, in decision-making, prioritizes those who are at the top of the Norwegian society. That's why there were many, I think, who, like me, were a little surprised when the Prime Minister two and a half weeks ago said that the Right should now step up the fight against inequality. It's a little late, a few weeks before the summer vacation in the last year as Prime Minister. So three days after that statement, the government made a social security settlement that once again leads to less living for pensioners. Who gets the most out of it? Well, older people with low pensions, who have nothing to lean on other than the population, and who don't get to enjoy the tax cuts of the government. The Prime Minister has received NOK 123 411 in a three-year salary increase. Soon she will have another increase in waiting. A single pensioner with 180,000 in income in 2014 has lost NOK 10 000 in the same period. Does the Prime Minister think it is stepping up the fight against inequality?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e636	The government has been working against inequality from the moment we got into the government offices, and it's nothing new that I'm talking about this. I talked about this before we got into the government offices, but we have a different view of how the fight against inequality is actually won, than the SV obviously have. It's not like using 1 billion. Dr more on school nurses and mental health care in municipalities is just a bad bet on inequality, when we know that mental health is one of the main reasons that children and young people fall out of school, do not finish and later get ill. That's a bet this government has made. Three billion. kr more for innovation and innovation in relation to the side rentals this was on under the previous government, is not a bad bet if we believe it to create enough jobs is important for those who have challenges to get to work. 9 out of 10 kroner this government has spent, we've actually spent on investments in the public sector or on welfare initiatives, but we've spent a lot on doing Norway better to start businesses, because we think it's necessary to do it. We have a regulation of popular security that follows the principles laid down in the social security system itself and the pension reform itself. I record that SV has now signed up for what they were for when they were in government the last time, and that they no longer support it during the fact that this generation older people will also be involved in creating a more sustainable pension scheme for future generations. But precisely because we've seen that there are major challenges today, we've added to the revised national budget to the group that didn't get an extra increase in the budget agreement on the Stortingen this autumn, that is, those who have some supplementary pensions get an extra tax relief because we see that there's going to be an extra big drop this year due to. the regulatory principles in place. That is why, in our tax arrangement, we have just given more money to the pensioners both in this and in previous tax arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e647	The tax rate that the pensioners who have little don't get to benefit from. SV thinks it is wrong that people who already have little should get less, while at the top they should get more. You can almost not talk about inequality and ignore the distribution of wealth. Finally, it is crucial whether the inequality grows or decreases. Some have to pay for the tax liability of the economic elite. The list of those who are exposed to unsocial cuts under Erna Solberg is long: multi-disabled, road-damaged, unemployed, disabled who have lost the child supplement, single-parents who receive less support than before, less housing support – and I could still have. If Erna Solberg is now going to take the fight against inequality, she has to make sure that those who have the least in Norwegian society don't get any less living off. It must mean some sort of change in the course of all these unsocial cuts. Is there one of these unsocial cuts that the prime minister now plans to change, since she intends to take the fight against inequality?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e654	I will first be allowed to clarify a manifest misunderstanding with the representative who says that the tax relief does not go to those who have low incomes. All those who have the greatest benefit from the tax relief contained in the revised budget are those with the lowest supplementary pensions. The minimum pensioners don't pay taxes, they don't get tax relief, but after the budget line for the current year, they get NOK 4000 more from 1 September this year, just like they got last year, with an extraordinary increase that the majority of the Stortinges, when we dealt with the budget, agreed to remedy this particular scheme. So it's an obvious misunderstanding if you don't see that the tax relief that's now going to be applied gives them the most with the lowest supplementary pensions. So I want to stress that a lot of the measures we're taking are better. Let me give you an example: multi-functionally disabled. There are two major reforms that this government has implemented: changes in the care scheme and the BPA scheme, two schemes that we promoted for the Storting, and that the previous government would not do, which is a billion-dollar promise that we are just taking for that group, with better services and better opportunities to live a better and more dignified life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e662	It opens for follow-up questions - first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e667	The Prime Minister invites us into his own reality where the pensioners have been so happy, even though the Pensioner League is very dissatisfied, where cutbacks to vulnerable groups are for their own good, and where the wealth tax laws have worked, even though the figures show that the proportion of investment in Norwegian enterprises is the lowest in 25 years. If the Prime Minister is to combat inequality, it should also be reflected in one of the important redistribution schemes we have in Norway, namely the tax system. There is a fascination after four years with Erna Solberg government that they get less than 10 kroner a day in tax cuts without wealth in Norway, while they get 100 million. kr in wealth and more receives NOK 575000 per year on average. I had not been able to come up with a more unsocial tax arrangement if I had tried. How does the Prime Minister think that the fiscal policy she has pursued over the last four years harmonizes with the sudden newfound desire of the Right to be the party that goes to elections to combat inequality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e674	The biggest tax reliefs given are given to people with normal incomes. On average, a normal family with two incomes has received NOK 8 000 less in tax, so the large amounts of the state budget have gone to it. But it's clear that when we change the property tax because we want Norwegian-owned companies not to have a tax disadvantage in relation to foreign owned enterprises, that means that the reduction can be measured by the fact that those who own companies or have high wealth have received a somewhat lower tax. It is an incentive to create the country that has more jobs in the future, which creates space to ensure that businesses can invest more in research and development rather than have to make extraordinary profits in order to pay the owners' wealth tax. I understand that SV is not concerned with private ownership, and they are not busy with jobs. I am concerned about both jobs and private ownership in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e681	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e686	The Prime Minister spoke earlier about not adding any other opinions. I think what she said now, was a good example of just doing it. She allows us to believe that we do not have ambitions about public sector reforms. I don't have time in 1 minute to say a lot about it, but we have great ambitions about it – among other things. Putting early efforts into reality and not just talking about it, implementing welfare reforms that make more jobs, so that the share of employment that falls out actually surfaces and the proportion of people employed goes up again, that people get into work. That's what we're going to live on. Then we also have to do something about productivity, which we talked about earlier. Then we have to use the space of action wisely, and here's my question to the Prime Minister. She announces about the same tax cuts for the next period as in this period of 20-25 billion. kr. The progress party announces about 50 billion. kr. The action space the government describes is $6 billion. kr a year, and then the question is, can the Prime Minister stand by the fact that it is her tax promises? We have to pay for everything we have to do in this country – roads, defence, well-being, education, competences, etc. The question is, how does this go up? Where is it to be cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e691	First of all, they're wrong, the numbers that the representative Jonas Gahr Støre says. We have said from the Right that the tax relief should be lower in this period. We have committed to more moderate tax relief in the next period because we have implemented some of the tax reliefs that we were most concerned about. But we still believe that we should give tax relief to ordinary people when we make changes and provide tax relief, for example. on the farm side. In the future, of course, we also have to work on how to get a good income base. It's an interesting paradox: there's talk of how much money we've given in tax relief on the property tax, but the proceeds from the property tax are only one billion lower now than it was when this government joined. This means that, despite the fact that we have reduced the rates, the proceeds of income are significantly higher than what is estimated in the way you calculate it. This again means that the calculations of the Workers' Party – how much space there must be and how much it costs – are not necessarily linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e698	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e703	In order to save money, the government has cut out sending pension benefits in the mail to older people who are unable to read their pension preferences digitally. My question to Erna Solberg is, has it been done to prevent older people from reading how bad social security is?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e708	All decisions on amendments to individual decisions will be sent directly to people, but the monthly release will be able to be picked up digitally. There are a lot of older pensioners who are completely capable of doing it. And then it is possible to call a service phone and ask to read how much you have in retirement. There are offers for those who have problems with it. This is a typical example of taking advantage of digitisation. We spend less money sending letters in the mail. The vast majority of those who today will get that kind of release are fully capable of reading electronic messages, but a small group will have problems. Then we have to help the group that has that challenge, instead of spending a lot of money sending out paper that I guess most people are expedienting quickly in a forest block nearby. It is using the modern instruments and spending the money we have on the state budget for good services rather than for really useless measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e713	Une Aina Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e718	I have this time let myself be inspired by the Party Alternative in Denmark, which uses to ask the people what they want to ask the Prime Minister. We've created an open website where people can send in questions and vote on what they're most interested in. We're going to do more of that in the future. One of the most popular issues is employment and the risk of sudden unemployment and, consequently, social challenges for families and individuals. We know that high-freedom societies also mean a society of great inequality. A report from Stanford University traces that cars going on oil and diesel will be out of sales within eight years. We also know that the UK government is now calculating that their future electricity growth will contain a much higher share of renewable energy than previously assumed, at the expense of gas. What people are wondering about is how the Prime Minister takes into account that the renewable revolution can take place much faster than the government plans, and how it will affect our oil and gas exports, Norwegian jobs and the welfare of future generations – our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e728	The President will recall that follow-up questions should be consistent with the main question, but the Prime Minister is free to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e733	I've been interested in watching the video, and I've also seen that the question that got most alike was the question of what MDG should do to get across the barrier. I don't have an answer to that, to say it like that, to those who have asked about it. We have a regime for oil and gas development where it is up to companies to make the commercial assessments of whether it will be possible and profitable to operate and extract. When the big system shift comes, investment in the oil and gas industries will fall. But we don't see it as our political responsibility to push that piece. That's why we're working on the transformation and change in our society. That's why we're spending more money on innovation – on research, on making sure that there's a basis for future businesses in other areas. We know that the oil and gas industries are gradually decreasing in importance in the Norwegian economy, and that we need to pick up growth from other companies. That's why we've had an active policy to make sure we apply new, enabling technologies. That's why we have an active policy to promote industry in Norway. That's because we're going to have more legs to stand on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e740	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e745	Co-location of emergency centres and reinforced emergency work was one of the most important things we were going to do together after July 22. It was part of the follow-up to the Gjørv Commission report. We all agreed that we should. Then something else happened. We've had an open and closed hearing on object protection. We've been sitting down in the basement here, in a secret and bolted room, and discussing it as if it were one of the darkest secrets we've had in the past. In many ways it wasn't that far from the truth. What is established is that the work has not been given priority, either in the Ministry of Justice and Security, in the Ministry of Defence or in the Directorate of Police. The National Audit Office writes that not even the Minister of Defence or the Minister of Justice and Security are able to give answers as to why no priority was given. There have been several explanations. Migration processes in the police are still being referred to, but do we really have to choose between police conversion processes and good preparedness? The Prime Minister himself pointed out — at least five times in the open hearing — that the reason for not following up so well was that POD had reported green even though it was not completely irritable, and now it does not prove to be a good explanation anyway. Why did the Prime Minister not give priority to the task of securing critical objects, as the Storting has decided? Two Justice Ministers have failed to deliver on the co-location of emergency centres. What has the Prime Minister done to ensure that the government follows up the decision of the Storting? This case has shown that adopting something in this room does not necessarily mean that it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e758	I think the picture of the situation around the emergency centres may be somewhat more nuanced than what appears in both VG's lookup and the question here related to this. During the review of the reform of the Justice Committee two years ago, the Ministry of Justice and Security informed that it was desirable to co-locate all the twelve within a three-year period, but it was too demanding to promise to do so. However, in early 2018, five emergency centres for police, fire and rescue will be co-located. In one of these, AMK-central will also be involved, and it's in the Nordic region. Co-localised emergency centre in the Inland area is open. Northern Ireland opens on 6 June, and Morene and Romsdal open in the course of the year. East and South-East are planned to open in 2018. Of course, it is relevant to discuss this in the context of a relocation, because when it comes to 12 police chambers instead of 26, it means that you move on, co-locate and do other things, and then you have to make assessments and changes to this. What was crucial after the work of the 22nd July Commission was that there should be better capacity at the emergency services of the police. We have ensured this through the police reform, which sets a minimum limit higher than that of 22 July, which should ensure that there are more people who can accept messages. So we're working specifically to get the co-location of these and the emergency centres, but it's not going to be the same everywhere. This has been well-informed by the Stortinge during the work on the reform itself. But we're on our way, and we hope to get to port, but we took a reservation two years ago that we wouldn't necessarily be in port in three years, because it's demanding. It is demanding, among other things, in the West police district, because they lack a new police house, which you work to get located. When it's positioned, it'll be physically easier to locate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e769	I understand that there are difficult processes that take longer than expected. But Stortinget decided that the emergency work and the object protection should have a certain progress. It didn't. The size decided to have these conversion processes, which should have some progress. They didn't. The National Auditor writes that it's very serious that the two things couldn't happen at the same time. We've become familiar with a POD that trains Stortinget's decision on emergency centres. When the decision of the Storting is ignored and goes later than assumed, does the Prime Minister have no idea who it is that really has power? The Prime Minister himself blamed POD, who reported green, and said that this was one of the reasons why the preparedness work, the improvements, went too late. Five times in the open hearing, she said it was because POD thought what they were doing, that you weren't coming along. The Prime Minister himself has a responsibility to keep track of the fact that some of the most important things to do are done. Is there POD that is unable to rule, or are they impossible to rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e774	Back to what I said in my first answer: it's important to separate these two things from each other. The Emergency Centres are following the plan set out in the context of the police reform. We have the ambition to try three years, but it's a warning that there might be something too short a time. Five of them will be in place during 2018, i.e. two years before 2020 and the end point of the police reform related to these issues. So there is no basis in my opinion for what has been said that we are not going to be in port or port. But then there are some single things. I have been a politician for so long that I know that in all localization matters there are many strong forces, and there are some single things where there will certainly be many strong forces that have wanted a different solution, still, such as. around the Drammen. So there's an assessment that Tønsberg has a better and more flexible place, and that's where you put the head office for the police. We don't have any reason to overdo it or to say that it's trained by the Police Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e779	It opens for follow-up questions – Board Vegar Solhell.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e784	The National Audit Office's report showed, as it were, major weaknesses in the government's work on object protection as of 2015. The Prime Minister has made it his main explanation that the Police Directorate ‘reports green’, i.e. gave Ok-signal up – as the representative Christensen said, she repeated it five times in the hearing. But the police directorate's report was not concerned with sectors other than their own, for example. not the defence sector, and it is the Defense that owned the instruction and had a large part of the key objects to be secured. And the defense reported and reported up on the status. The police directorate's message also did not concern their entire sector, but only parts of their responsibilities. Does the Prime Minister insist that the main explanation of the very critical picture was that the Police Directorate reported that it was ok in parts of the justice sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e793	There is a wrong description of my answer at one and a half hours in the hearing that it is a main explanation. But that is a partial explanation of why the police side had not come any further. At some point and just around the time it was controlled by the National Audit Office, it was thought that they had done those things, because they had got a wrong signal. But that wasn't my main explanation. I also said we were too bad. I think we should admit that. There was too bad follow-up of the object protection. A lot of measures have now been taken to get the object protection in a good way. It's also important to remember that objects go in and out of lists depending on other security measures, so there will always be some objects you might not have finished with the plans around because they're newly registered to the lists, and others that go out of those lists. That's why this is a dynamic work. But it's clear there was an alarm clock, also to see how many places and in what area we had had too bad tempo at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e800	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e814	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Kåre Simensen of the Minister of Health and Welfare, has been withdrawn. Question 11, from the representative Are Health to the Minister of Knowledge, will be raised by the representative Marianne Aasen. Question 13, from the representative of Tor Bremer to the Minister for Fisheries, has been withdrawn. Question 16, from the representative of Mr Tajik to the Minister for Justice and Security, will be taken up by the representative of Mr Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e840	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e848	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘A simple school meal is a good tool to help balance social and health differences among children. The reasons why the government cut the school fruit scheme and opposes the introduction of a single school meal are often ‘priority’. The 25 billion given in tax cuts is 10,317 pst. more than the cost of the school fruit scheme. Why does the Council of State consider it appropriate to prioritise tax cuts rather than a simple health and learning promotion meal for students?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e857	If this had been a football match, I think the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen had now got a yellow card for filming. The reality is that the Workers' Party has actively supported around 12 billion. kr of these tax reliefs, the materiality of the tax reliefs in the taxation of persons and also the reliefs in the corporation tax. As Minister of Health and Care, my task is to provide a broad range of public health work and to contribute to good and safe health services. We have to have an overall perspective on this. Education and work play a major role in alleviating social inequalities in health. This is why we give priority to early work in kindergarten and school, increasing teachers’ skills, increasing school implementation rates and measures that also contribute to job security. At the same time, we follow up the public health communication that facilitates healthy choices. We have put in place a number of measures to support municipalities in providing good food, good eating habits and daily physical activity, among others. a test of more time for physical activity and exercise in youth. I would also like to remind you that in March the government presented a new national action plan for better nutrition, where food and meals in kindergarten and school are an important topic. Diet, food and meals are, of course, the primary responsibility of parents, but the schools need to ensure a good framework for meals, which is important for health, well-being and learning. That is why I and the Minister of Knowledge have sent letters to all the municipalities, including: on the importance of facilitating a sufficient amount of time for pupils to eat, in line with the Health Directorate’s guidelines. One of the main challenges in Norwegian schools today is that very many children, most of them, bring a food package from home, but very many places they don't actually have time and surroundings that are good enough for them to eat the food they bring with them. Many school owners and schools, including on their own initiative, have established food and meal arrangements in cooperation with parents, students and local actors. Good examples are now gathered in an idea bank behind the National Centre for Food, Health and Physical Activity. The Directorate-General for Education's questionnaires to schools include this half-year of food and meals, and feedback will be an important basis for assessing other actions in this area in the future. The food package has a solid position in primary school. In high school, many schools have canteen solutions, and some serve lunch. The challenge is the time to eat. The government prioritises actions that support parental and municipal responsibility for food and meals at school, while giving priority to action in education and work, which are the main factors in balancing social differences. It is precisely what contributes to the fight against inequalities and social inequalities in health in Norway. We have to grasp the reasons why the inequalities arise, not try to decorate it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e880	Alf Prøysen had a funny show about Hilma who was driving and filming, but there's not much filming today to claim that we have a completely different tax regime in the Workers' Party than the government is doing. We even have money that we have spent on both fruit and green and a meal in school. The Minister of Health mentioned the action plan for good diet. It says very well. I quote: ‘Food, food and meals have an impact on health and well-being and are an important part of everyday life.’ And then you say – and it’s also important – that an unhealthy diet is ‘among the main risk factors for disease and premature death both in Norway and the rest of the world’. It's like I had to say it myself – brilliant analyses. It's just one thing: in the government's public health house, there's a big room with a big elephant, and the elephant's name is "lack of action". I ask again: why won't the government come up with powerful measures that can do anything about this situation, with early efforts, good meals in school, instead of all the time being too little about all the municipalities doing exactly what's good?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e897	We have powerful measures, measures that reach the whole population. Among other things, we have a broad cooperation with all those who produce and sell food in Norway, which means that salt, sugar and saturated fat are reduced in the food that comes in the refrigerators and the bread drawers to all of us. We also contribute to increased sales of fruit, nuts and fish, which we're going to eat more of. At the same time, we also see it as for example. is such a powerful measure by the Workers' Party, involving a few tens of millions of dollars in order for a fifty schools to try a school meal during the day. In fact, the proposal by the Workers' Party is not necessary, because there are a considerable number of schools already in the process of doing so under the policy of this government. The examples that are going on and that are being tested in the Norwegian schools today are so good that we have our own bank that distributes them so that municipalities can find different ways to do this. The proposals made by the Labour Party are not necessary, as this is already under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e904	I could have said a lot about the Workers' Party's very good programme proposals and about what we have put into our alternative budgets for a school food scheme for all children. School is an arena where all children are taken. If we are to have effective measures in this important field, we must enter school, and the government must come up with its own measures, not only because the municipalities are doing the right thing, because municipalities are different and have different starting points. That is why I ask again: why will the Minister of Health not listen to what the public health scientists are saying, that if we are to do this, we must come up with powerful, universal measures in addition to those that are explicitly targeted at high-risk groups? That's why I'm asking, isn't it that the government can think of having a few dollars more than what you now have, that's when all the kids -- that the scientists advise us to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e911	A number of these measures reach all children. 60 pst. of the children in school today do not have enough time to eat the food they either receive at school or bring with them in the food package. Now we're doing something about that, precisely because it's the basic challenges for food in school. There is no correlation between the rhetorical Tove Karoline Knutsen uses in this area and the alternative budgets they themselves present. In the 2017 Alternative Budget of the Workers' Party, they had 66.7 million. a pilot scheme in a dozen schools with a school meal during the day. It's not a universal system. There are considerably more schools than the Workers' Party is proposing, which are already in the process of doing so. Here the Workers' Party turns in open doors. So the working party's priority is 66.7 million. kr to this at the same time as they voted for about 12 billion. kr in tax reliefs. So the rhetoric that the Workers' Party used in its initial question here can be described as filming.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e924	‘An external investigation shows that Health South-East has not controlled access to IT workers abroad and not by tracing what they have used access to. According to PricewaterhouseCoopers, access is of such a nature that they have or will be able to acquire or other users have administrative rights on one or more servers. It is not possible to prevent such users from accessing health information. Can the Council of State guarantee that access does not provide access to more than one part of or the whole of Norwegian Health Network patient data?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e931	On 24 May I received a preliminary statement from Health South-East about the planned service assignment. PwC’s preliminary main conclusions show that the hospital partner has not had sufficient control over access management and that they have not had sufficient traceability of access to health information. The four health regions have separate ICT infrastructures. Everyone has informed that neither internal nor external users who have access to the infrastructure in Health South-East can access servers with personal sensitive data in other health regions. The state enterprise Norsk Healthnet provides services to the entire health and care sector. These services relate primarily to the exchange of messages. The content of the messages sent on the health network is encrypted by the consignor with the consignee’s identification, so that only the correct recipient can decrypt and read the messages. This is also where patient information is stored, i.e. at the hospitals, the municipalities, the permanent doctors, etc. The messages will never be opened in the course of the health network. Norsk Healthnet has informed that a health network is organised in such a way that users of an establishment, even with extended rights, cannot enter another establishment, for example: another health region, municipality, permanent etc. In addition, each establishment holding health information shall have separate safety mechanisms to prevent unauthorised access to the information. The issue of service deployment in Health South-East has taught us that it is difficult to obtain absolute guarantees of information security in systems connected to the Internet. This applies insofar to all sectors of society and also to infrastructure other than ICT. I perceive that the critical point of all security — including information security — lies in the crossroads between the technical, contractual and legal security mechanisms and in the behaviour of those actors who are at all times responsible for patient information and access systems to such information. On Monday 29 May, I met all the boards and the administrative management of the four health regions. I stressed the importance of regional health companies learning from each other's experiences and developing better solutions in the future. It is important that all now go through their own access management systems and practices. I have also understood that Norsk Healthnet wants to look at its business on its own initiative based on the same experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e944	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I sincerely hope that's what the Council of State says, that there are separate computer servers in the four health companies, but that's also how Norsk Healthnet retrieves the data from the servers of the individual hospital companies, so there's a connection here. And that's what the question is about -- about the route-accesses to the servers in Health South-East can also provide easier access to get through the possible firewalls that are there. For eight months, the Director of Health South-East has defended the agreement with HP and said that it is not possible to get in touch with patient data through ICT operations from abroad. PwC has spent 14 days producing a long report, but they have spent the shortest time establishing that this possibility is completely obvious. [[The President clubs.]] It's hard to trust that there's competence... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e951	The President requests that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e956	I agree with the representative that the report from the PwC is very serious. It reveals that there has not been sufficient control in the phase in which Health South-East and Hospital partners have now been involved. However, I would like to stress that this business transfer has not been completed. The phase that this is about is the planning part of this. I believe that this report also raises issues that have led me to say that we are going to start a national work on this, a task that will be given to the Directorate for e-Health, where all other important key competences, including employee organisations and trustees, will be included to ensure that we develop a better common understanding of what should be the right requirements in this area in terms of external access for suppliers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e963	Back to the eight months. The Director has had eight months and certainly more than that before the contract was concluded in September last year. She still has eight months to defend that this was not possible. The next question is whether the Ministry of Health and Welfare is not competent. All of these concerns are about this possibility, which is very clear in 14 days, that patient data can be accessed when data servers are accessed. Is there not the competence of the Ministry of Health and Welfare that PricewaterhouseCoopers used perhaps one of the 14 days to determine? Even the Pensioners' Association submitted a complaint of concern. It should not be so difficult to understand that this was an opportunity. What will the Council of State do to ensure that that competence exists in the ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e968	Firstly, it is important to stress that the responsibility for this type of agreement, for the ICT infrastructure and for following laws, rules and security mechanisms is not something that can be pushed up the system. It is the health regions and the individual establishments that are responsible for this. That is why the Ministry of Health and Welfare has not dealt with that kind of issue. It is the government of Health South-East that is responsible for this. I have received a number of questions from the Control and Constitutional Committee that address many of the issues raised by the representative here. That answer will be given on June 1st, i.e. tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e978	‘There is work to start a new public higher education school at Evje. The school will help overweight, obese and lifestyle-changing young people. It will also prevent outsiders. The demand for such an offer is high. There are a number of health professional recommendations on the offer. This could help the individual and lead to great savings for society. The school has broad political support locally and regionally. How can the Council of States contribute to the speed with which this important offer of Evje can be launched?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e985	It's very exciting, what they're planning to do at Evje -- next to being a folk high school, which is an important addition to the rest of our education system. Public health, vitality and overweight are both clear and major societal problems. Today we have 79 high schools spread throughout the country. During this period we have approved two new national colleges, Kristiansand Folkehöjskola and Creator Creative Folkehöjskola. The system is this — and it has been for a very long time — that the Swedish Law of Higher Education is not a law of rights. It lays down certain conditions which must be met in order for a higher education institution to be approved. In addition to the fact that an applicant fulfils all these conditions of approval, priority must be given to funding in the State budget for a new school. On 1 April of the year before the start of the application is the deadline. The Public Health School at Evjeklinikken AS applied for approval for the first time in spring 2016. At that time, there was no funding for new high school in the state budget. I am aware that Folkhøgskolen Health at Evjeklinikken AS does not renew their application by the deadline of 1 April 2017, but that does not necessarily mean that they do not want to continue to start up. As I said, it is a very good initiative – it sounds like a well-planned school. But it is simply up to the budgetary processes whether or not you approve it at the time you want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e998	I am glad that the Council of State does not close the door, that he keeps it a little light – at least as I interpret the Council of State here – that one points out that this is an important supplement, that it will enrich the breadth of our education offer, and that it is exciting, but that it is a system that is a bit challenging in that way. But it has been done in the past, and it will certainly be appropriate to give priority to this. At least that's what I'm saying. Not least, there should at least be no argument that there have been a number of higher education institutions in the South. I think that must be what the national colleges have to offer, which must be in the center. The question is, how does the Council of State view the process further in order to enable such an important addition?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1005	I agree with the representative de Ruiter that there are many higher education institutions in South Africa, there is no argument in itself. It is by chance that the two schools that have received money in this period are located in the South. What I would recommend to the school is to send an application every year, formally. As I said, it is not that we approve the applications, in the sense that these are not fresh oils. It is not that if you get your application approved, you get to start. You meet the criteria that you need to start a high school, and then it depends on the budget, just like that. I recommend that you continue to submit your application by the April deadline every year, and then like everyone else, you have to show that you have a good case, and wait and look at the government budget. It is the Storting that ultimately decides what should be supported or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1012	I hope that one can get to a realization quickly. The school has broad support, both political and professional. The calculations suggest that if only 2 out of 100 of these young people go into gainful employment and become there at retirement age, a funded grant to this school. It shows a socio-economic account that is absolutely exciting. What I want to end with is challenge the Council of State: Could he at least plan to talk to the Minister of Health, possibly the Minister of Labour, just to discuss, for example, the matter? This school and see if there are any opportunities to get ahead of it — at least discuss the socio-economic and health benefits that can lie in investing in this type of school?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1021	I don't think I can promise a separate meeting just about this school. But as I said, public health, lifelong learning and lifestyle diseases are at the heart of a lot of what the government has been working on, and that we've also been working on in school. In the new curricula, public health and lifelong learning will become one of the cross-disciplinary themes that will go back to more subjects in school in the years to come. So I can absolutely question myself with the Minister of Health and the Minister of Labour, for example, or with others who are relevant, about how they view this high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1029	«After a spring of pediatric uprisings, the Storting rejected last year's government proposal to introduce language norms in the kindergarten, and the Council of State stated several times that his proposals were misunderstood, and that the Right would preserve the free play in the kindergarten. In Oslo, the Right is in favour of clear skills goals, more formal play and more planned activities with clear goals for what the children are left with. What does the Council of State think that the Right would restrict the possibilities for children's free play in kindergartens?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1036	First, a small correction to the representative of the Grande. It was an indicative language norm we agreed to, not a language norm. The fasitator of what the government wants is that we have put forward a new framework plan for kindergartens. From the first moment I said clearly that I am not a member of, and the government is not a member of, having individual skill goals in kindergarten, as we have built up in our school. I think kindergarten is a learning arena and the first step on the ladder of the educational society, but kindergarten is not going to be a school. Kindergarten learning must take place on the premises of children and kindergarten, and it is also reflected in the politics of my party. On the other hand, I do not understand the representative's scepticism for more planned activities with clear objectives for what children are left with, or for more formal play. Free play is very important in kindergarten, and most of the kindergarten day will always have to contain free play. Children learn a lot from playing all by themselves. But the Stortinget with the representative of the Grande Party has asked the government to strengthen the language work in kindergartens, for example. There is a lot of language work in free play, but it can mean a little more formal play: playing something that adults have arranged. It may also involve more planned activities with clear objectives of what the children as a group are left with or what they want with the activity. It's something quite different than individual skill goals or individual learning goals, as we have in school, than starting to measure it. So I haven't gone into detail and looked at what Oslo Right has proposed in Oslo City Council, just because I'm the State Council and I'm dealing with the Stortinget, but I've got the ambition, that's that all children should learn Norwegian before they start school. It's an ambition I set myself 100 pst. back, and as I suppose the representative Grande shares.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1047	We can grasp what is the responsibility of the Council of State. It is a fact that, after the state council presented its pediatric report last year, there was an uprising in the whole kindergarten sector, precisely because the demand for language standards – guidance or current – skills targets, demands for more documentation in kindergarten, and we saw that both parents and employees expressed great concern about the development of kindergarten. State councils have themselves stated that free play is important, but in order for free play to be learned, we need adults to facilitate it. It is difficult to interpret in a way other than that the play has no particular self-esteem, but that its purpose is to learn. Does the Council of State mean that free play in kindergarten is meant to be learned from it, or does he recognise children's right to play for the sake of play?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1054	The object of the game is play. Play has a self-esteem. Then it has the added advantage that by playing – then I am talking about playing freely – you also learn a lot. For example, you learn. to deal with other children, to learn about nature and about role patterns, to learn languages. A lot of this is in the free game. When I talk about the fact that the nursery workers – of whom we also want more of them – are now strengthening the pedagogical norm in kindergarten and sending a proposal for a standard of living at the hearing – also have a role there, it is because even in the free play it can sometimes be that experienced kindergarten workers with heavy and solid education have to go in and make sure that everyone can be there. It has not been given that if the children always get to hold on completely without, for example. Adults sometimes help everyone get involved, or everyone understands the codes in the game, that will be a good thing. But the kindergarten should have a lot of room for free play, and also room for play and learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1061	We agree that of course there should be a lot of learning in kindergarten, and that there is a lot of learning in the free game. At the same time, the vast majority of those who know something about this, from research teams and from kindergarten employees believe that good child care learning is the main way to do this is to increase the skills of employees, and not least by increasing the number of pedagogues. When the Workers' Party at the head took over after 18 years of right-wing rule in Oslo, Oslo was the largest municipality in the country with the worst competence in kindergarten. Now the new City Council is increasing to 50 pst. kindergarten teachers and 25 pst. skilled workers, and they build 3,000 more kindergartens towards 2019, three times more than what the Right did. They don't have time to wait for the Minister of Knowledge, who has for too long hesitated and has had to be dragged after the hair of the Stortinge to get a pedagogical norm. Why has it been working so long?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1068	It has not taken longer than the Stortinget has requested. With the representative of Grande's party, the Storting asked me to assess. The representative of Grande can explain for himself how much money was involved in a reinforced pedagogical norm in the alternative budgets of the Workers' Party during this period. The full year effect in 2018 – there I said wrong to the representative of Grande the last time we had a reply about this – is 400 million. kr to several kindergarten teachers, and the money comes from the fall. This means that municipalities and private kindergartens have to raise today’s educational norm, which is in practice 37-38 pst. and up to 44 pst. When we've tripled the money that goes to the quality and content of the nursery during this period, that's precisely because that's what we're prioritizing. I would also recommend that the representative of Grande look at other municipalities, and also look at whether the Labour Party – Norway’s largest rapporteur party – meets the norm of 50 pst. in all the municipalities they govern and have long ruled.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1081	‘In the Progress Party’s programme, we can read that the government party is going to elect to introduce ‘free right of establishment for private schools’, that private schools are going to receive ‘100 pst. grants’, as well as ‘introducing a funding model where the money follows the student’. If this is implemented, what are the consequences of this in general and for the districts in particular?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1088	I am not in favour of the model of the Progress Party, nor is it the party I represent, nor is it the government's policy. The government's policy, as government councils are called in to the Stortinget to answer, came very clearly in the 2015 law on free schooling, where we made a law on free school that confirmed the principle that we should have non-commercial health schools – in fact strengthened that principle – but at the same time resolved in some of the rigidity of the old law on free school, which made it possible, for example, to have non-commercial health schools. could start religious incubations, but one could not start schools with a particular professional profile, other than private vocational schools. In the case of the grant rate, it has several aspects. Today it's 85 pst. That means the students have to pay the last 15 pst. Otherwise, there is no money for capital – the type of buildings and stuff. So having 100 pst. funding, although it is not in its programme for the right, nor is it the government's policy, simply because it costs a lot, will in practice mean that students do not have to pay for incubators. That it should be a very unfair principle, or something you go in a torch against, I have some difficulty seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1097	Thank you to the Council of State for an answer that very clearly cancels the school policy of the Progress Party. It is not very long left for the election, and even if the Council of State takes responsibility for its government and its responsibilities now, I expect that he also has plans for Norwegian school longer than 12 September. And for very many, these are important questions. Even I come from Trøndelag, who is to be brought together immediately over the elections to one large region, and have responsibility for higher education both in a big city and a surrounding country, and the fact that the Right so clearly cancels its government partner's school policy will probably be seen as a straightforward clarification towards the elections. I just want to ask the Council of State: can we be sure that these are negotiations the Council of State will win with?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1108	The representative can be sure that the Council of State – I, therefore – will not sit in those negotiations, and I am absolutely sure that the representative knows, from a political life, that it is not that all the negotiators in his area. Nor am I calling off the policy of the Progress Party. I have no power or authority to do that. I'm just saying what is the government's policy, I'm saying that we got a new law on free school in 2015, which the Progress Party also voted for, and I'm saying what is Right Policy. That's gotta be nice to do. Then, realistically, the big discussion around the law on free school will be if the Workers' Party gets an impact on the left turn they've done in the field of free school policy. The Labour Party has previously held a free school settlement, but now wants to introduce a local veto right for municipalities and counties against health schools, for example. will make life very difficult for those who now want to start a Christian high school. It is then completely dependent on the majority in the local government, which is a fundamental violation of the idea that even if the local authorities' opinion is to be given weight, it is also the case that you should have an opportunity to actually start a supplement to the public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1115	It was a rather strange interpretation from the Council of State on what it means to give the school owner an opportunity to plan well for all the students for whom they are responsible. If I'm going to continue with Trøndelag as the good example, that's where Christian high school that works very well with the county community's entire portfolio, and that's what they'll still do with the law of free school that the Workers' Party stands behind. Then, of course, you go to the elections to fight through the program formulations. We do that in the Workers' Party. We want to spend the big money on the elderly and school, not on the tax cuts this government targets as its main priority. And I just want to say that as clearly as the Council of State was now, it's not possible to perceive in any other way than that the Progress Party will not achieve its school policy in a continued government with the two parties we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1124	I understand that the representative really wants to draw a conclusion. It's like that if it turns out that the Progress Party gets 25 pst. in the event of the election and the right receives 10 pst., it will affect the negotiations after the election. I believe that the University of Applied Sciences policy is very wise and very good, I believe that it is the people who should vote for, and that it is better than both the Progress Party has in its program, and the Labour Party has in its program, but it is not possible to stand in a Question Time, as the Council of State, and cancel other parties' policies. It doesn't matter. But I think – and now I don't think I'm taking my mouth too full – this is not what the Progress Party is going to give the highest priority in new government negotiations. In addition, the representative said that I canceled the school policy of the Progress Party. I neither call off the School Policy of the Advance Party nor believe that the Colleges are the entire School Policy of the Advance Party. This is and will be a relatively small part of the overall school policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1134	‘Do the Council of State feel that it is possible to test and control themselves for good results in school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1139	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1144	Yes, that was a short and correct answer. I'd like to follow up, because that's not what the government and the government follow in practice, this no-one. When, in 2015, the Storting considered proposals to strengthen the swimming skills of children and young people, the Workers’ Party proposed that school owners should not be able to complete the swim training until all those who were in a position to do so had learned to swim. It was the time when government parties opposed, and instead of continuing swimming training, the government has introduced a skill test in swimming. Does the Council of State think that a test is sufficient to ensure that all students learn to swim and that municipalities have the resources to ensure this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1151	The answer is also this time no, but I would like to add a little more. I agree that it is a very offensive principle to think that you should not let any students out of school until they have learned everything they should. Actually, it's the principle we're applying and should be based on, in absolutely every subject, not just swimming. In the case of swimming, the difference between – without mentioning the name – previous governments have actually done something during this period. It's not that our policy to strengthen the swimming profession has been to introduce a test. It has been changing the goal of competence so that it became clear what students should learn. Incentives have been introduced, in particular in conjunction with the Left, to enable kindergarten children to be trained in swimming. And there has been an additional grant scheme so that those who have not arrived/were in Norway once the swim instruction has been given will have the opportunity to resume the swim instruction later. All of this puts pressure on the municipalities to do the job they were always supposed to do, namely to teach the children how to swim. When asked about the swimming environment in Norway, they say that this has made a difference, and they have asked for it for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1162	The Labour Party is not against testing or checking, but the Labour Party is clearly of the opinion that in order for municipalities to be able to provide the services to them, the local economy is the most important tool. TV 2 has shown that the money that the Christian People's Party has received to grant to more teachers in 1–4. class, has only led to more teachers and smaller group sizes in about half of the municipalities. Municipalities already report in detail on teacher density and group size. Nevertheless, the government introduces further reporting on the teaching density of the first class steps. Does the Council of State consider that there is a lack of reporting – and not a weak local economy – that is the problem the municipalities have in being able to cover the statutory tasks, which means that half of them do not use the funds as they were supposed to?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1167	The growth of free income has been higher in this period than in the red-green period. Last year it was a record year for Norwegian municipalities. This is due to both a good local economy and other factors. The representative mentions a report on TV 2, which shows that the funds that we have allocated, 1.3 billion. kr, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, to several teachers from 1 to 4. steps, not in all municipalities, have led to more teachers. But TV 2 also had another report that showed that in many of the municipalities that the Labour Party rules – Norway’s largest rapporteur party – they obviously did not listen to party leader Jonas Gahr Støre, who said in the 2015 election campaign that the reading, writing and calculation guarantee for the Workers’ Party was to be implemented by hiring more teachers. Not only have you not listened to your party leader, but you have not taken advantage of the chance when the bourgeois majority has given ear-marked funds to just more teachers between 1 and 4. steps. So here I think there are more people who should take responsibility for their own house.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1175	‘Where private vocational schools have no obligation to coordinate with the counties around them, how does the Council of State consider that the counties should be able to carry out good vocational training dimensions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1180	Let me start by stating that the vast majority of Norwegian students go to public schools today, and that's how it's going to be in the future. At the same time, the government is concerned that individuals should also have the opportunity to choose alternatives to public schools. One of the differences between the new law on free schooling is that the alternatives need not only to be religious or educational alternatives but also to open up to private vocational schools. They shall provide training which is consistent with public school training. They're going to lead to the same final competence, of course. And our starting point is that we can and should let go of actors and industries that can make a positive contribution to the development of vocational and vocational training. There is discretionary approval under the Law on Secondary Education. No authorisation is granted if there are negative consequences for the host municipality or the host county. What it will mean is, of course, a discretionary assessment, but it is an important limitation that ensures that the local school structure does not get damaged. It also means that stand-alone offers, including vocational schools, should be complementary to the public sector. Today's approval system is a continuation, so it is quite similar to the practice of the former law on free schooling. The only difference is that we now allow ourselves to have private vocational schools. I believe that there is a reasonable balance, where, on the one hand, we want to get to several types of fresh oils, and, on the other hand, also take into account the host state and the municipalities, if applicable. In this way, we'll simply be trained more of the skilled workers we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1189	The Labour Party thinks it is very good with positive initiatives, not least in terms of cooperation with private actors that are going to use many of the ones we are training. But the situation is that the Council of State has approved 60 places on construction in Hordaland. It happened against the advice of the county council and against the advice of his own department. 60 places is a significant number of places in total. Entrepreneurs have one trade, concrete, but they also need to recruit masons, scaffolding builders and carpenters. This means that the county municipality does not have the opportunity to dimension, because then they take all the students who might want to go that way, and in addition it has to be free – at least it is said to be. Does the Minister not see that it is becoming challenging, both because the young people have to choose, because the consequence may well be that the county has to reduce its offers, because the private take the whole pot, and because the business – except the entrepreneurs – does not have access to professionals when a private school does not have to dimension, such as one must in the rest of the county?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1196	I agree that the states should dimension their education. And to be completely honest, the problem is not that most counties work too much with dimensioning their educations, but rather that they do it too little. Hordaland has been a very good professional, a good apprentice, too, for many years, so it probably indicates that they might have been a little better than others. Through the treatment in the Ministry of Knowledge, the number of approved sites was reduced, precisely because the county had objections. But neither in this law nor in the previous law there has been a veto right for the county. Whether it is true that this will have such a negative impact on the size of the county that it should not be allowed to attend a high school is an assessment that the department makes on a professional basis. It means in practice that the question here is not whether to allow fresh schools, because it is also the Workers' Party for, but whether to want private vocational schools – which is what the Workers' Party is against.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1203	The problem here is about the large social mission of the county, which is to offer to all young people and to have the opportunity to govern them. Governments choose here to override local skills and knowledge, taking into account the need for access to labour such as industry – carpentry, masonry, scaffolding, etc. - Got it. In addition, perhaps the most challenging thing to do is to get young people who are struggling at school to complete school. When 10 pst. of the school places, such as in the district of Hordaland, are left to private people, who are not allowed to dimensionalize, neither when the proportion of young people goes up, nor when it goes down, and the most challenging students often go to the profession, does the Minister not see any limit on what is proper in terms of the number of private school places for a county municipality, which has the overall responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1210	Yes, it will be. There will be a limit, and that's exactly what's in the law, and that was also in the previous law, that if the county says this makes it impossible for them to dimension, or it means that they have to lay down their own classes or schools or something like that, then it's likely that a school won't get approval, if it's an assessment that according to the department's professional judgement. But the problem here is that someone wants to start a professional school. It is the industry itself – among others. contractors – who are behind them. They want to do it because they want to train professionals, and they think that public doesn't give them everything they need. That is the fundamental question: are we to have the same thing as with the previous law on high school, where it was in practice forbidden to start private vocational schools, or do we want a law on high school where, within the same legislation, there is also an opportunity to train people in the professional field and to become an apprentice, not only in the field of preparatory studies?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1220	I will ask the Minister of Knowledge the following questions: ‘Do the Council of State consider teaching density to be a major factor in the learning of pupils and an important measure in school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1227	Of course, teacher density is important, if we couldn't have classes of 500 or 100 students – or 50 students. So that's not the question in Norway. The question in Norway is: Does it want to spend money on extra teachers — and in concrete terms there are fewer classes involved — have an impact, given how expensive the measure is? That's really the question. There it is that the majority of the research points to the fact that it does not give a large professional gain, at least not automatically. Then there are some research reports that are drawing in a different direction. That means that what the government's been working on is that the teacher's density is of course important. We want to give priority to 1-4. Steps, but we are most concerned with two other things, namely that we should have good teachers, because good teachers are more important than many teachers, and then we are concerned about how the thousands of teachers – or more – that we have allocated money to together with the Christian People's Party and the Left are spent. Then I believe that there is a better use of those teaching positions, for example. to create groups of teachers who are conducting intensive training of those students who need it the most – otherwise what Oslo has now started, very well – than just using it to reduce class size from 20 to 15 or from 20 to 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1232	Thanks for the answer. But the Council of State itself is behind a scheme for example. the municipal economy, which shows that 10 out of 18 Østfold municipalities actually receive a cut budget from the government for 2017. So they don't even get enough initially to cover up for the rise in wages and prices. If not the teacher's density is the first priority of the Council of State, at least the quality and upgrading of teachers is. With such a budget for the majority of the Eastfold municipalities, to take it as an example, how does he feel that it helps these municipalities to invest in quality in school, when the Council of State rather prioritises tax cuts for them with the most important assets in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1237	Now I do not know the details of the municipal structure of the Østfold municipalities, I have to admit, but the Østfold municipalities have got their share of 1.2 billion. the civil majority on the Grand Duchy has granted the eartag for several teaching positions of between 1 and 4. steps. They've got their share of 1 billion. to continue training of teachers, and they have been given their share of all the other major school initiatives that this government and this majority of the population have carried out. Then I must send the same challenge back to the representative, because Eastfold is a state where the Labour Party has many rapporteurs. You should check, then, how the local rapporteurs have used the earmarked funds, whether they have used them for additional teaching positions alongside what they had intended to do before, or whether they have not done so. Jonas Gahr Støre gave a clear message in the 2015 election campaign that a so-called guarantee from the Workers' Party should be fulfilled by hiring more teachers. The numbers indicate that it has not been done in most places.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1244	What's right is that there would have been a lot more working party rapporteurs in Eastfold than it actually is. We have to make sure to do something about that. However, in the municipality of Eidsberg, where the right-wing rapporteur, who is also a good man, now stands out in the Municipal Report and says the economy is 'demanding', so demanding that Eidsberg, with the right-wing head, had to introduce property taxes from this year. And the rapporteur goes on to say: ‘We did not have enough room for action to make the municipality as attractive and to facilitate growth as we wanted. Without property tax, it would almost cease to exist.» He ends by saying that the municipality does not get enough drag help to break the curves. These are pure words for money, for which the rapporteur in Eidsberg should be commended. How does the Council of State think that Eidsberg can strengthen the quality of school with such a starting point in the local economy? Are there more tax cuts in the next period to be made, or are there other measures that will help with quality in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1256	Firstly, I assume that the Right-Rapporteur in Eidsberg is also concerned that people have jobs. I still have the good fortune to see the company that is now at the brink of a tough situation that Norway has been through, saying: Do you know what, 15 billion? in the case of a tax increase, as proposed by the Workers' Party, 15 billion. kr directly towards people most, directly towards our jobs owned by Norwegian owners, not non-residents, it is the recipe for getting more jobs. It is possible that the Workers' Party has such an enterprise. I have yet to meet one. Then Eidsberg also has all the possibilities to spend 1.3 billion. kr they have received several teaching positions in the 1st to 4th grade. in several teaching positions. These are earmarked funds that come from the majority. As far as continuing training is concerned, there are great opportunities there. So it's just to say about the local economy that the growth of the free income has been greater in this period than in the red-green ones. Last year it was a record year in Norwegian municipalities in general. This does not mean that individual municipalities cannot be difficult, but at the same time there is a good illustration of the difference between the Right and the Workers' Party. Right takes property tax if we have to, the Workers' Party takes it because they can.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1267	It was an interesting stamping of all the country's Labour Party rapporteurs. But I'm going to ask the Council of State a question about something else: ‘In the programme of the Progress Party, we can read that the Government Party is making choices to implement that funding for the education system needs to be ‘opened to private actors’. Can the Council of States guarantee that if the Right and Advance Party government continues, advertising funding will not be provided in Norwegian school and that the Progress Party will not achieve its objectives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1276	The law is very clear that Norwegian school should be free of advertising, and so it should continue. I am not a member of the Progress Party and I was not at their national meeting, so I have not seen the context of this. I don't know what 'open to private actors' really means. But it's not up-to-date politics for me to introduce Coca Cola sponsorship of school desks or that kind of thing. Now it's not entirely foreign to Norwegian school that you have market players inside – Tine, for example. - but I think we're doing fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1283	There is reason to worry that schools will become a funding area for advertising. In the context of previous questions, we see that many municipalities feel that they are not getting the money they need for it to be spent on the school budgets. I also believe the Council of State should look at a press release from Gunn Marit Helgesen in KS that this good financial situation for the municipalities was a one-off event due to. changes in the tax system, before using it as a response. It is such that other Right-State Councils, such as Kristin Clement, have previously stated that we must be able to tolerate any advertising in Norwegian school, despite the fact that the co-operation government had clear rules against this at the time. That's why we're worried. We see that the money doesn't stretch. But it's fine if the government can guarantee again that this is not going to happen with a Right Party government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1290	Yes, to the extent that I said in a previous reasoning. Before a choice, it is always such that everything has to be negotiated, etc. But I have not registered anyone who wants us to start with advertising funding for Norwegian school in general. It could be that the issue when Kristin Clement was the State Council was whether it should be okay to distribute these school journals or free magazines. Now it's possible that young people don't read magazines on paper anymore, so there's no problem, but should you be allowed to distribute a school journal that's advertising funded? I don't think it's very good resource use to spend a lot of time and effort and resources fighting that kind of thing. But the main principle of the law is stated. It is that Norwegian school should be free of advertising with the reasonable common sense exceptions it entails. It is quite right that a record situation in Norwegian municipalities was due, among other things. change in the tax system, but I still have the benefit of hearing the Workers' Party refute that the free income is greater in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1299	I am very pleased that the Council of State now says that we are not going to have advertising funding in Norwegian school, and that there is obviously no mention of free things that are in a way part of the school's education or the school's arrangements. I was not at the National Meeting of the Advance Party either, but when you write that it opens up that private operators can be part of the funding of Norwegian school, I expect it to be understood as supporting the normal running of the school. So, of course, it's nice if someone wants to do it without getting anything left for it. It may have happened up through. But I think that if it's going to be introduced as a new principle, it'll probably be like a return where you get paid for it. Can the Council of State agree that there is a kind of thing that he and his party will be guaranteed to do, and can he say that we will not allow it even if the Progress Party has written it in its program?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1304	I just have to say again that with regard to this quote, ‘open to private operators’, there is no context here. I don't know what the relationship is, whether it's more private schools or what it is. It is not possible for me to say anything about what the Progress Party has meant on the basis of this question. But I can say a lot about what I mean. I think that's where Wickholm and I are in line. Then it's worth including that we also want a strong involvement from business and working life in school. It is probably not as unusual as the representative Wickholm has the impression that business and working life contribute to the school, without expecting anything directly back. For example, there are very many companies that donate equipment to professional programmes. They do it because they need skilled labour and more employees in the future. They don't do it because they're going to get their logo on the nest pack for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1314	This question, from the representative Are Health to the minister of knowledge, will be raised by the representative Marianne Aasen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1319	‘Why does the Council of State consider it a reasonable priority to spend 25 billion. for tax cuts, mainly for those who have the most in their history than to introduce, for example: the maximum price in the SFO, the standard for teacher density, digital equipment for all pupils and enough special educational resources?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1324	This must well be called a polemic question -- I think it fills the very definition of a polemic question. Let me first answer that some of the things that characterise this government is that we have reduced taxes – because we have done that, to strengthen Norwegian business, strengthen jobs and, not least, ensure that we can have Norwegian companies on Norwegian hands, instead of selling to foreigners – while at the same time investing heavily in not least knowledge and research. We have had a total real growth in government appropriations for the school sector of 47,5 p.m. during this landfill period. This is a much larger real growth than the tax relief is in percent. For example, there are important reasons for this. high level of continuing education, the grant to several teachers of between 1 and 4. Step 1,3 billion. kr, the apprenticeship grant has increased, we have introduced a new science course, etc. Then we have also taken concrete steps to introduce e.g.: more specialised pedagogical resources. Right now, the Aasen Committee has a message for consideration where we propose to legislate on special pedagogical competence at the pediatric stage. With regard to the standard of teacher's density – it depends a little on how you want to do it, whether you want to have the Labour Party system, which the members of the Educational Association have called bleach, and which it is a little difficult to know what it means, or if you want the Christian People's Party and the SV's system – it's something that the government doesn't want. We're not in favour of a national standard of teacher's density. In the case of digital equipment for all students, the government comes up with a digital strategy for the school. I would like to answer it more – I guess I will also have an opportunity to do so in the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1333	I would like to start by thanking you for the answer – polemics or not, but we are now driving polemics into the Stortinget, preferably in the Questionnaire. After reading the Right Programme for the next period, one thing strikes me: When they went to the elections last time, the main prescription for Norwegian school was to train more teachers – it was thought that teachers were too poor. From the programme now, I see that there is a clear tax commitment – it is going to be a lower tax, even though we know that the tax relief we have had has hardly created a job. But if you go in and look at the school program, it's about making sure, strengthening, getting better at it -- pretty bad points about the school. How can the Council explain that the tax promises are so clear while they are so close to school?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1340	It is tempting to say that I cannot see that our tax promises are so clear. If you look at how the tax promises in the Right Programme are formulated – I have managed the Programme Committee – there is also no menu list of all taxes that Right will have. We stand for what we have always stood for, namely that we need to have a healthy tax and tax level in order to create jobs and to give people room for action and encourage work, etc. But the most concrete thing, or the most important concrete thing, we say about taxes, is that we should follow up the tax reform, and I assume that the Labour Party also agrees that we should. So there's a lot of concrete stuff in school. It is concrete, early efforts, and there are the details of treatment in the Storting right now, for example. the obligation of the municipalities to intervene for those students who need it most early in the school cycle, the legalisation of special pedagogical competence, a whole new system to follow up those municipalities that have persistently weak school results over time. All this is also described in the program. In addition, there are large expenditure proposals, such as: new master training for teachers, which will also enter the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1347	But the tax is going down, so you're not satisfied with the tax relief in this period, even though it hasn't led to growth in private jobs at all. As far as early efforts are concerned, I think the Right Party and the Labour Party have quite similar ambitions there, I think we can agree on that. But what I'm questioning is how to finance this. This requires extra effort, it does not just keep up with law making this with early efforts and special education, etc., cf. previous issues that have been addressed in relation to the school and community economy. So how is the Council of State going to ensure that the taxes go down? And the local economy, what happens to it? The big question is, how does this work, despite beautiful and pretty words, that many in this room spend a lot of time on?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1354	This is to be done by the fact that almost all the space for action, or at least large, large parts of the so-called space for action, i.e. the new, extra money we have to spend every year, is going to improve the services in this country. Knowledge and research are a very important priority among them. Even if you sometimes get the impression of the Workers' Party's rhetoric that everything goes to tax relief, it's obviously not like that. Only the growth in school during this period illustrates it very clearly. It's completely possible to do both, but it's clear that it also assumes that into the next decades we'll be able to prioritize what's most important. For the government, for the Right, school and research have always been a main thing, we've always prioritised it. But that also means that we have to be tough on the priorities. We need to modernise the public sector. We cannot say no to all the modernisation attempts and all the modernisations that some parties want. We can't reverse, we have to keep renewing, improving and simplifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1362	‘In one case today and Time in 2015, the Council of State took a settlement with the so-called digital enthusiasm in the school he described as ‘naïve’, setting up a modern school and better learning as two contrasts. Does the Council of State describe that investing in an up-to-date and modern school for our children is naive?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1369	There has been an error in the representative Tung's posts, either deliberately or unconsciously, because I have never claimed that investing in an up-to-date and modern school for our children is naive. It would be quite 'heavy in hat' to claim something like that. There is also no evidence in the article and the interview with Day and Time to formulate it that way. What I said was something very, very simple. It's about two things. First of all, school has to keep up with time, it's quite natural for school to teach children how to use digital tools and handle a digital everyday life. It's one of the things the government's been working on, and it's been working on the whole period. So I also said that this belief that just giving the schools equipment, the digital competence will come, is naive. In many parts of the 1990s, part of the Norwegian ICT education policy was characterised by this. It was thought that portable PCs or other devices were given to all students, that digital skills would automatically follow. One of the most important things to forget about then is the most important thing in school next to the student, the teacher. It does not help to buy iPads or reading boards for all Norwegian students if they do not have the skills to use them in a good, healthy and educational way. What is the whole point and the whole key to the successful digitisation of Norwegian school is that equipment, infrastructure, learning skills and learning goals actually have to be linked. Something else constitutes a naive digitisation, at worst a harmful digitisation, which means that students spend more time being distracted by digital instruments than actually learning more — and learning more about them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1376	I think the Council of State may have misunderstood a little when he says that digital competence automatically comes along. At least it can seem like that's what he thinks when in four years the government has barely done anything about digital tools in school. In 2016, the Labour Party proposed a national strategy for digitisation, which both the Right and the Advance Party voted against. We both know that good digital tools can give students better learning, and not least teachers more time. I think there's a connection rather than a contrast between good learning and modern school. Then I have to ask the Council of State, since there has been very little in this area in the last four years: Has tax cuts to the wealthiest been more important to the government council during his reign than the investment in school and digital learning?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1383	Making sure we have jobs in Norway, making sure that we have Norwegian owners who own Norwegian companies, and not having to sell everything to foreigners, is important for this government. One of the reasons Norway has had the biggest oil price shock in many decades, perhaps ever, now is over – not entirely, but unemployment is falling, new jobs are created, optimism is back in Norwegian business – is that we did what was needed. I have yet to meet a business owner who says, if I'm going to secure the jobs, if I'm the Norwegian owner, who lives in the municipality here, go to the same store and have the kids in the same school as those who work here, to maintain it, what I need is a 15-billion tax increase. kr. Moreover, the Right Party and the Advance Party voted against the sale of a national strategy simply because the government had announced that we were going to make a digital strategy. Then it became a little funny to vote to do something we were already doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1390	I think it's a little funny to vote against something you're in favour of, especially when you're working on it. That should be the best excuse and not least the reason to actually vote for it. At least the last time I checked, there were not very many new jobs created by the tax cuts the government gives to the richest. But let it go — these questions are about digital competence and digitisation in school. I think I and the Council of State agree that the digital competence is – not least in the future – as important as being able to read, write and calculate. Coding is also a property students should be familiar with. I think it's good that the government has introduced this as an electoral profession in high school, but if it's really going to work, and if it's going to be something that all students are going to be allowed to participate in, it probably has to be something up. Then really is my question: why is the government waiting for high school, and why is this an electoral profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1399	In terms of coding, we started it as an electoral profession. The choice subjects were introduced by the previous government, then coding was not part of it. We have said that we should have a trial plan, now everyone should be allowed to have coding as an elective subject. Coding may be part of more than one subject. We're going to go into a trade renewal, and coding may well be a natural part of e.g. earlier in the years. The maths profession. But once again, it's important, as the Workers' Party often forgets, that we also have teachers who can use this. It's not just to introduce something from the political side and assume that it's working well. It's not just spending half a billion dollars on multiple reading boards for all students and assuming it's going to work out. Competence, professional digital competence is needed. Otherwise, the contrast is pretty clear between this government and the previous government. In practice, the previous government did not increase taxes, but they did not give priority to research and knowledge in particular. We remember all the rest-cuts that were left after the red-green government. The right priority is both taxation to safeguard jobs and knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1415	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1423	‘In the Police Forum on 23 May 2017, the Minister of Justice stated that ‘the Police Directorate gives us feedback that all municipalities have been involved, or have been briefed in some form or other in the process’. Is the Council satisfied with the way POD has involved the municipalities in changing the service provision locally?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1430	As you know, the Stortinge laid during their treatment of Prop. 61 LS for 2014-2015, the close police reform, a significant emphasis on local involvement in the design of a new local structure for the police and officers' movement. In order to create co-ownership, legitimacy and security of the population, it has been important to involve local communities. The Ministry has therefore pointed out in its mission letters to the Police Directorate the importance of implementing good, inclusive and transparent processes. The Ministry has followed the Directorate of Police's work on developing a new local structure closely. From an early stage, reports from the Directorate have shown that local involvement has been well maintained. On 24 May 2017, the Ministry decided on the 72 complaints raised against the Police Directorate’s decision on a new local structure. Some of the complaints stated that the processes had been deficient, but the ministry did not find the basis for such a claim in its handling of the complaints. It is therefore my opinion that the Police Directorate and the police officers have carried out good processes according to the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1443	Good local processes are an important factor in the success of police reform. That is why it was very central for the Workers' Party to make this concrete in the agreement on this reform. It is important that citizens can be confident that there will be available and present police in their local environment, even after the Länsmannskontoret has been closed or moved. The police forum asked the rapporteurs of the country the following questions: ‘Do you feel that your municipality has a good overview of what kind of police services come after the location structure has changed?’ 65 pst. of those who answered, said no. It is an alarmingly high number, and it is not a sign that the local processes have been carried out in line with Storting's order. Why has the Council of State not ensured that the municipalities have been involved in the way the Stortinget asked for?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1457	It is important for me to stress that close police reform is both a structural reform and a quality reform. The police shall work differently. They shall implement new aids. Multiple tasks shall be solved by police patrols. The public service shall increase. The preventive part of the work will be intensified, including: by establishing police contacts. This shall be established in all municipalities by 15 June 2017. So we're talking about a little over two weeks. At the same time, the role of the Police Council will develop. It will be an important venue for local interaction, especially in the field of prevention and preparedness. It's important for me to stress that now that the map is drawn, it's about filling it with content. That is what is – let us say – the motivating force for police reform, as we see results from now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1464	I record that the Minister of Justice is of such an opinion, and that he is satisfied. But the Labour Party is not satisfied with how the government has followed up the implementation of the police reform. What we read in newspapers, and what we hear from the Council of State, indicates a lack of control over the Police Directorate and a lack of leadership. It is difficult to understand why the Council of State has not ensured that the police have carried out better local processes. I have registered that the Council of State has pronounced to the VG: ‘Let it be clear who controls this launch. That's me." What concrete action has the Council of State taken vis-à-vis the Police Directorate to ensure that the launch is corrected and steered in the right direction, in line with Storting's order?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1476	I can actually confirm the quote from the VG. That's right, I'm the one running that shot. And I don't feel like a conflict between the Department and the Police Directorate at all. I feel that the Directorate of Police is most closely following up the decisions taken by political leadership. Something else would not be acceptable – something else would have been clearly turned down. I would like to stress that during the complaint handling we completed last week, we went through the complaints. A total of 72 complaints were raised, of which 50 were real. All were given a good, proper and self-based assessment. In view of that, we made three changes, and it is a follow-up to the Storting decision to maintain good local processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1486	‘Head of reform work in the Police Directorate, Håkon Skulstad, says that POD is not surprised that the municipalities say that they have not received a document from the police with ‘A promise to the inhabitants’. He says, "It has never been the meaning of the police directorate or the police chiefs." The opinion testifies to the fact that POD has not understood the order from Stortinget. Why has the Council of State not ensured that the police have followed up the settlement of the Great Britain at this point?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1491	I dare remind you that I received a similar question from the representative on 5 April 2017, and that I then gave the Stortinget a thorough briefing on the police's work in the ongoing processes. At that time, the complaints were dealt with in the ministry. The complaints have now been dealt with, so it is only now that the police know how the local structure becomes. Police can now start designing the final briefing on how the service will be provided. At the same time, I would like to remind you that it is in the nature and intention of the near-police reform, which I am sure is in agreement with, that the individual municipality and the police are expected to enter into closer cooperation in the future. I am thinking in particular of the establishment of police contacts, which will be active from 15 June 2017, as well as the further development of police councils. In the future, the municipality and the police will work together to find good solutions to the local challenges. In this way, the near-police model will develop and become increasingly better. In this work, it will be necessary to meet the key requirements for police work in the future, which were adopted here in Stortinget on 10 June 2015. So, to the referenced opinion from Skulstad, the Police Directorate reports that the opinion is related to a question from the Police Forum on why the police districts had not published written information on the provision of services locally at an earlier time in the process of developing a new place of employment structure. The task of the police officers has been to prepare draft such written information as part of their recommendation on a new local service location structure, after involving the local management groups. Police officers shall now complete these documents as the local police station structure is finally established. The representative of Vågslid must not be in doubt that the Police Directorate has understood the Storting's order. The Ministry follows closely the reform work and the capacity of the Directorate of Police to understand and carry out tasks is assessed to be good, as confirmed by the February 2017 review report of diffi. It concluded, inter alia, that: Explain that the reform is on track, but that the workload is extensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1504	I might be a little bit more in doubt if the Minister of Justice has understood the intent of the conciliation when I hear his answer. It is not surprising that there are not many complaints, as the premises for the process are not known. Then there is not so much to complain about. There is no room in the reconciliation for a promise to be made to the inhabitants after they have been set. There's a big difference between the Labour Party and the government in that particular case. It was said that the map is now the end of the map, and its contents are coming. Here we are not some. I wonder if the Council of State sees that it may not be so strange that there are not so many complaints, when it turns out that the municipalities are not informed about what premises are in a promise to the inhabitants. Regardless of whether it was to be completed afterwards, the municipalities should be given time to work on this in order to achieve our common goal of a better police service in all the municipalities of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1516	As I have explained earlier, all municipalities have been involved in the process that has been towards changing structures. And let me stress, it's only when the location structure is finally established, which it is now, that you have a full overview of what content will be delivered. It will, of course, be essential for each municipality whether or not you have a county labour office in the municipality, and it will also guide what other content that municipality will then have. Our intention – and what we are working on and what we are going to deliver on – is to have police contacts ready by 15 June, and we will follow up through close, close cooperation with the municipalities. It is the will of Storting, I follow it up, and I ensure that it is followed up. But there will always be disagreements about process when one has not agreed on the result. It's always like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1523	Based on the questions of Skulstad in the Police Directorate, to which I referred at the outset, it may appear as an active choice not to inform the municipalities of what they are entitled to. There is nothing to suggest that that information would have hindered implementation. On the contrary, it had guaranteed much better to the process, both for the Minister of Justice and for us at the Stortinget, which was very concerned about a promise to the inhabitants. It's totally central. And if this is the case, that means that this which has now happened is a counter-action of the will that has been made in the decision here on the house, which is formulated in "a promise to the inhabitants," and what I think is serious. Then I wonder if the Council of State, when he has heard both these sayings and what is being referred to in the Police Forum, despite this, do I think that the intentions and will of the majority of Stortinge have been taken care of in this process until now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1530	I would like to remind you once again that we have been through a complaint procedure, where the decisions taken by the Directorate of Police have been dealt with not only once more, but in fact twice more. In the first round, the Police Directorate converted its own decisions, in one case, and we have turned three more from the department. So it's like one of the foundations for being able to complain was just the process, and it's been possible to appeal. These have been individually assessed, and the assessment obtained is that three of the sites have been converted. So that's what I'm saying, when you do the grip and the change in a structure, not all of them will be satisfied. There will always be some who are dissatisfied. But from there to draw the parallel and conclude that this is about a bad process, I think you should be withholding. We have set up good processes, and now, once the decision has been taken, we must follow the municipalities closely and ensure that we get a good neighbourhood police and a good offer to the citizens in the future, in line with the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1542	This question, from the representative of Hadia Tajik to the Minister of Justice and Defence, will be raised by the representative of Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1547	‘The size has given its consent to the co-location of the naudstrals in Norway. This is based, among other things, on the fact that Drammen has had a project for several years, which has shown good results from such cooperation. What does the state council do to follow up POD when POD itself says that they have ‘extraordinarily low target achievement’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1554	The national emergency project had concluded that there were many benefits to the co-location of emergency situations, but had not investigated how this could be solved in practice across the country or how much it would cost. The current Minister of Justice therefore chose — and agreed widely — to co-locate the 110 and 112 centres as part of the close police reform. In addition to co-location, Stortinget concluded that the 110 regions would be reorganised so that they would have a common border with the new police districts. The Directorate of Police and the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness were tasked with finding good solutions for co-located centres after the Stortinge had joined the new district division for police. Already then it was known that it could be challenging to get good solutions in some of the police's existing buildings. Int. 306 S for 2014-2015 shows that the Ministry has informed that it is practicable to implement the co-location of all 12 within a three-year period, but that it will be difficult to undertake to complete all co-location processes within such a timeframe. I even opened the co-located central in the Inland police district in March. On June 6th, next week, I'm going to open the center in Northernland. The plans show that More and Romesdal have a common centre during the year, and East and South-East police districts have such centres as early as 2018. Emergency centres are so important in the emergency work that it would be ‘old’ with the safety of the population if we were to set time limits ahead of quality. This government has proposed and the Stortinget has decided to finance five co-located centres. This is in line with the recommendations of the Directorates for Progress. I am proud that we have five co-located centres in 2018. The Directorates report that co-location is being prepared in all police districts. Sometimes this is more demanding than others, and it's not concluded that solution anywhere yet. The two directorates report good cooperation and benefits from co-location. I'm happy about that. The close police reform and all the measures related to the reform are and will continue to be followed up in the governance dialogue in such a way as to ensure compliance with the decision and leadership of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1569	I thank you for your answer and note that the Council of State acknowledges the problem and the challenge. That's very good. After the headquarters of the Nordland police district was added to Bodø in 2015, the process of co-location was speeded up in Bodø. Police Director Humlegård has told VG that the police officer Vangen has developed a good and well-functioning concept. This has helped to establish co-location in Bodø in close cooperation with the municipality of Bodø and the health company. As the Council of State says, he's going to Bodø himself next week to mark it – you should be cordially welcome! But the question is, how will the Council of State ensure that you can learn from the good experience that has been gained since December 2015 when the decision on the main seat of the police district was made? And how can you apply those experiences to other police districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1576	Firstly, no one has suggested that it is challenging to obtain all co-locations within a three-year time perspective. There is nothing new either, it has been communicated to Stortinget in the past. The size has also been continuously reported on progress in the budgetary procedure, and the progress that must be made has also been the basis for the government budget. There has been a lot to learn from the co-locations that have already been carried out. The starting point for the successful co-location we saw in the Drammen, in the Søndre Buskerud police district that time, provided us with a good basis for carrying it out elsewhere in the country. We've completed it in the Inland. Now, not least, is the good work done in Northern Ireland, the good experience that takes us further into the further police districts and the co-location we're going to have in place there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1583	The council acknowledges the problem, but my original question was: what will he do to POD to achieve the goal in relation to what POD itself describes as ‘extraordinarily low’? Here we all recognise, I think, that this is challenging, but the closest we came up with an answer was that this will continue to be addressed in the governance dialogue, so that the Storting decision was implemented. What a lack it would be that the decision of the Storting was not followed up! But I can challenge the Council of State to be concrete: in the next governance dialogue with the POD, when discussing how to achieve the goals, what experience from Bodø and elsewhere is it concretely believed that POD should step up its efforts to speed up and achieve a higher target?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1588	Firstly, I do not agree with the description, which is – I think – inserted into a context that is not correct, but which is along those lines that it is ‘extraordinarily low achievement’. I don't share that description. We're where we're going to be in the interests of progress when we look at the frameworks laid down in the state budget, where the Storting has been involved all the way, and also given the challenges of being co-located three different agencies like this. I myself visited Finnmark yesterday and saw the plans that you have there for co-location, which are considered very good. But once again, there are also things that need to be incorporated into the ordinary budgetary processes, adopted by the Storting and financed. Clearly, the experience we have gained so far in order to achieve the best possible solutions of a technical nature, but also on the building challenges, are good prerequisites for delivering faster at the latest centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1597	That being the case, it is no. 2 done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-31.ana.ud448e1611	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
