ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e56	Representatives Norunn Tveiden Benestad, Sylvi Graham, Bente Stein Mathisen, Åsmund Aukrust, Morten Wold, Hans Olav Syversen, Sveinung Stenland, Liv Signe Navarsete, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Audun Otterstad and Erlend Wiborg, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The Vara representatives, for Akershu County Are Health and for Rogaland County Unn Therese Omdal, now take the seat. Two permit applications are available: from Mr Freddy de Ruiter on welfare leave for the period from 15 February to 23 February from the representative of Trond Giske on parental leave from 16 February to 8 March The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of the South-Trøndelag County, Gunn Elin Flakne, apply for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget under Eva Kristin Hansen's leave due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: for East Agder counties: Line Kisses Vennesland for the South-Trundellag County: Ferhat Güven
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e154	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Grand Duchy's meetings on Tuesday and Wednesday this week. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will further propose Hans Andreas Limi and Sverre Myrli. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Andreas Limi and Sverre Myrli are unanimously elected presidents of Tuesday and Wednesday meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e172	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e182	The Committee has examined Document 8:8 S for 2016-2017, the representative of the Kjersti Toppe, on a national action plan for hepatitis C work, with the aim of eradicating hepatitis C in Norway. The proposal for a representative proposes a national action plan for work on hepatitis C. The proposal aims to ensure that no infection or death of hepatitis C occurs in Norway by 2025 and that all patients are given access to safe and effective treatment. The draft hepatitis strategy of the Public Health Institute, dated December 2015, is proposed as the basis for the preparation of a national action plan. In its comments on the draft representative for the national strategy against viral hepatitis, submitted on 15 June 2016, the Council of State set out its position. The strategy is general and is based on a draft submitted by the Institute for Public Health, in cooperation with the Directorate for Health, non-governmental organisations and other relevant actors, to the Ministry of Health and Welfare in December 2015. The final strategy is more general than the draft and provides guidance for the work of hepatitis. The Committee notes that the Council of State considers that the strategy as it stands today provides a good basis for further work on viral hepatitis and that the Council of State is sceptical that the Ministry of Health and Welfare should develop a separate action plan for hepatitis C. The Committee considers hepatitis C to be a global health problem and shows, among other things, that work against viral hepatitis is included in the UN Sustainable Development Goals. WHO — The World Health Organisation — has encouraged all countries to develop national strategies for hepatitis. In May 2016, the World Health Assembly adopted a target for the elimination of viral hepatitis by 2030. The Committee also points out that the WHO target for hepatitis C is 50 pst. reduction of new cases by 2020, 70 pst. reduction of new cases by 2030 and 70 pst. reduction of hepatitis C-related deaths by 2030. The WHO’s vision for hepatitis is as follows: ‘A world where hepatitis is not infected and everyone has access to safe and effective treatment’. The Public Health Institute believes that based on the disease situation and the provision of health services in Norway, Norway should have a target that is significantly more ambitious than that of the World Health Organisation. The Committee supports this position. The draft National Strategy for the Work on Viral Liver Diseases, i.e. hepatitis, of the National Institute of Public Health, proposes to set an overall target for the complete elimination of hepatitis-related deaths in Norway by 2025. In June 2016, the Ministry of Health presented the national strategy for the fight against viral liver infections, i.e. hepatitis, without such a defined vision. A minority in the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left, are behind a proposal which reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a national action plan for the work against hepatitis C, with the aim that no infections or deaths of hepatitis C occur in Norway by 2025, and that all patients are given access to safe and effective treatment. The draft hepatitis strategy of the Public Health Institute, dated December 2015, must form the basis for the preparation of the action plan.’ I would like to address this proposal, and I consider the matter to be referred to you.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e207	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e212	One can ask questions about whether one should be measured by the number of action plans or by its actions, because the fact is that both the number of patients treated and the resources used to treat this disease have increased sharply in recent years. Of course, it is due to new treatment methods, but I dare say that this is one of the diagnostics in Norway that has received the most relative increase in appropriations in the last few years. When we do not vote in favour of the proposal for a separate action plan, it is not because we want the hepatitis virus to live on in Norway, but it is because we are of the opinion that one cannot feel that one has to develop a separate action plan for each disease to show the willingness to treat it. Of course, we will, along with the proposer, do what is in our power to get rid of this disease, as far as possible. In the case of hepatitis C, we've done a lot already. One thing is in the field of medicine, with an active pricing policy that has given you a lot, much more money left. That's a good old Right word. At the same time, we have also developed the availability of non-invasive measurements. I dare say that this is a success story that will continue. At the same time, I would like to remind the House that we have just adopted a prioritisation report. A total increase was behind some priority criteria, and seriousness is one of them. I believe that we know all diseases and in any case have to ask the question: Is the severity of this disease more important than that of other diseases? That's exactly why we have a priority message. We all put those criteria behind us. I believe that hepatitis C is a serious disease, and it should be controlled, but it should not take precedence over others, based on the priority criteria. We also agree on the decision-making forum. We agree on the purchasing system for new medicinal products, and we agree on method assessment. We now see that especially within hepatitis C, this works. Prices are falling, more people are being treated. I would warn against a development in which, in order to give priority to a disease, one must adopt a separate action plan. In the case of hepatitis C, this should at least have been seen in the context of other infectious diseases, other diseases affecting people. There are good examples of diseases in Norway with at least the same consequences for the population, for which there is no proposal for a separate action plan. In addition, it has to be mentioned that in the last few years we have adopted a separate escalation plan for the drug field, which contains a number of measures for the weakest patients, which are easily affected by this disease. In the overdose strategy, there are a number of measures in place, including: To reduce the number of injecting heroin users. All of this will contribute to the fight against hepatitis C. Then it has to be mentioned that the municipalities are one of the keys to succeed in this. Many of the solutions are local. Then it is only to realize that there are too many differences between municipalities and that municipalities have to take more responsibility. One example: My own municipality got, happily enough, a record profit last year. So they did not choose to use the funds we have spent in the state budget for more health sisters. The municipalities have a room for action in the health and care sector, and we see that there is a little too much difference in how they choose to use local self-government to work at grassroots level to combat this type of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e231	With this proposal for a representative, the central party wants a national action plan for the fight against hepatitis C. If this proposal had come in the last period, while the Central Party was in government, I would have more understanding that the proposal was coming. We were in a completely different situation that time. Together with its government partners, the Workers' Party and SV, the Centre Party made sure that the extra bet on drug treatment, the so-called Golden Rule, was terminated. The same thing happened with the earmarked funds for drug work in municipalities. This resulted in long waiting times for drug treatment and a reduction in prevention and follow-up in municipalities. Now we're in a completely different situation. The Right Party government, well assisted by the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, has reintroduced the Golden Rule and the municipality's earmarked funds. In addition, the government has promoted and adopted a historic promise for the drug field, with more than 3 billion. For drug treatment, prevention and follow-up. Hepatitis C is a global health problem, and its response is included in the UN Sustainable Development Goal. The World Health Organisation has therefore encouraged all countries to develop national strategies for hepatitis. This government has followed up. Six months ago, we got such a national strategy, and the responsibility for following up this is now with those who work with patients and users every day. The strategy is general and is based on a draft by the Public Health Institute in cooperation with the Health Directorate, non-governmental organisations and other relevant actors. It is more general than the draft and provides guidance for the work on hepatitis. The Progress Party believes that the strategy as it is today provides a good basis for further work and has no faith that a separate action plan will improve this work. The prevalence of hepatitis in the Norwegian population is low and the potential for prevention and treatment is good. At the same time, the incidence of hepatitis C among drug addicts is high. We have also received new medicines that work better and that have a lower side effect. This means that more people carry out the treatment. These medicinal products are expensive but cost-effective. As a result, more and more new medicines are being treated. At the same time, there is reason to recall that for hepatitis C, as for most diagnoses, it will be better for individuals and more profitable to prevent rather than treat. The contingency plan for the drug field is well on the way to this, as it envisages establishing reception centres in the largest cities, increasing the number of outreach treatment teams according to the ACT model, low-threshold health measures according to the Gate Hospital model and low-threshold substitution treatment according to the LASSO model. But it is not ultimately an action plan that saves lives. This is probably why we do not have action plans for every diagnosis available. What matters is that we have a strategy, and that we actually rig the hospitals and the municipalities in such a way that we are able to give an offer to everyone. The Public Health Institute believes that based on the disease situation and the provision of health services in Norway, Norway should have a more ambitious target than the World Health Organisation target. The Progress Party supports it. The members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Left believe that hepatitis C is a serious disease affecting one of the most vulnerable groups in society. This is a vision I share. Therefore, intoxication has also received perhaps the very greatest promise. What happens to me is that I get criticism to give my care a little too much space, but I think the situation we were in, made this absolutely necessary and absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e256	Hepatitis C is a global health problem, but it is also a national, regional and local health problem. But most of all, it's a problem for those people who get the diagnosis, who live with the concerns about whether they're going to have a permanent liver injury, or whether they can die from the diagnosis. Work on viral hepatitis is included in the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and the World Health Organisation has also encouraged all countries to develop national strategies against different types of hepatitis. Even the World Health Organisation has adopted, in May 2016, a target for the elimination of viral hepatitis by 2030. In its draft national strategy, which was based on the World Health Organisation’s demand for national strategies to eradicate or reduce the number of hepatitis-related deaths, the Public Health Institute set out a target for Norway to eliminate this by 2025. The Ministry of Health and Welfare presented a national strategy for the fight against viral hepatitis in June 2016. That doesn't mean we're going to reduce the target that the World Health Organization has set itself, even if there's not a percentage there. The hepatitis incidence in the Norwegian population is low. Thus, the possibility of prevention and treatment is very good. At the same time, we should not put under a chair the incidence of hepatitis C among drug addicts in Norway is high. Then we have to think two things at once, thinking Christian People's Party. Together with the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have presented an escalation plan in the field of drugs, and the measures here can help reduce the number of cases of hepatitis C and other infectious diseases. In addition, the incidence of infection is a separate chapter of the strategy put forward by the government. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Council of State that the strategy against viral hepatitis, as it is designed, provides sound grounds for further reducing this work at regional and local level. When we have a health challenge pointed to by the World Health Organisation, which has also been pointed out at national level, it is a major responsibility on each municipality and on health businesses to make action plans to address the challenges locally, where you are, to get ‘hands-on’ plans that fit where groups of hepatitis patients are actually. These are often users across municipal boundaries. Nevertheless, we must get concrete action plans, together with the ideal actors or other actors involved in care and treatment work for this particular group. It doesn't keep having a national action plan if we don't get it down to local level. The Christian People's Party believes that the strategy presented gives good opportunities to different actors locally — municipalities, businesses and organisations — to have their own action plans for this patient group. This patient group needs concrete, good local follow-up. The Christian People's Party believes in adapted plans. That's why we believe that this is where the job needs to be done in order to achieve the goal that we all have, care for the patients who have this disease, and who have an opportunity if we have good plans locally. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not support the proposal of the Central Party for a separate national action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e271	The World Health Assembly has called on all countries to develop national strategies for the control of hepatitis, and Norway has supported this resolution. In Norway, hepatitis B and C are the most common and are responsible for the most serious hepatitis diseases. The Public Health Institute has been given the task of drafting a proposal for a hepatitis strategy, and the Ministry of Health and Welfare is promoting a national strategy for the fight against viral liver disease in May 2016. The draft strategy of the Institute for Public Health is on 40 pages and was developed in cooperation between the Directorate for Health, voluntary organisations and other relevant actors and received very well. The Ministry’s strategy is on 5 pages and has been strongly criticised for being deficient – therefore this proposal for a representative. Treatment of hepatitis C can today make the vast majority of patients free of virus and thus leak for the disease. Until now, such treatment has been given primarily to patients who have clear signs of liver damage, in order to stop the development of liver failure and liver cancer. The World Health Organisation’s vision for hepatitis is a world where hepatitis is not infected and everyone has access to safe and effective treatment. In its draft global strategy, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has the following proposals for global objectives for hepatitis C: 50 pst. reduction of new cases by 2020 and 70 pst. reduction by 2030 70 pst. reduction of hepatitis C-related deaths by 2030 In Norway, infection is low, and prevention and treatment options are good. The Public Health Institute recommends in the draft strategy that the Norwegian target should be significantly more ambitious. Hepatitis-related deaths should be fully and at an earlier stage, e.g. by 2025 – what we propose in the draft representative. But in government's strategy, concrete goals are completely gone. The government’s objective for the national work against viral hepatitis is to keep hepatitis infection in Norway at the current low level. Infection spread in deferred groups shall be reduced. All those who become seriously ill with chronic hepatitis infection have access to safe and effective treatment, i.e. seriously ill. So it's not a government strategy goal that fewer people get infected. It should be kept at the level of the day. And it's not an objective of the government's strategy that there should be no death of hepatitis in Norway, as both the Institute of Public Health and the World Health Organisation have clear targets for the work. When there is a better knowledge of existence, the government is relinquishing responsibility. They write in the strategy that it is up to the Public Health Institute to assess the need for new knowledge acquisitions towards other areas and available resources. In the draft strategy, the National Institute for Public Health and the Professional Environment recommends a number of current, concrete measures within each of the three main objectives, which are good knowledge, fewer people infected and to reduce disease and prevent death. The proposal for a strategy by the Institute of Public Health states: ‘An action plan for chronic hepatitis should be drawn up in which prevention and treatment are seen in the context.’ That's exactly what we're proposing. When both the government party and the Christian People's Party seem to know better than a collective trade union environment and vote against an action plan, it makes no sense. Do they think the Institute of Public Health is wrong? Do they think the Health Directorate is wrong? Do they think all user organisations are wrong? It is positive that more people receive treatment, and that the supply has been split up so that it is possible, but if we are to be able to eradicate hepatitis C in Norway, we cannot just wait for cheaper medicine. Hepatitis C is often asymptomatic. There is uncertainty in the reporting routines. There is a low level of follow-up of risk groups. There is a lack of prevention in LAR and in prison. And it helps little with cheaper medicine if you don't know that one is infected. A large proportion of patients in need of hepatitis C treatment are people who are taking — or have previously taken — a drug with a syringe. The sad fact is that if there were another patient group this was about, there would be a large majority for the proposal that is being addressed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e309	Hepatitis C is a disease that primarily affects the weakest in society, the heavily addicted, and many have had bad odds so far in life. I am therefore very pleased with the escalation plan for the drug field and the ambitions contained in that plan. Prevention is one of the three areas of activity in the plan. It is natural to see the work of eradicating hepatitis C as an important part of the work of improving the quality of life of heavy addicts, and the escalation plan is particularly difficult to implement. We know that there are many reasons why people end up in heavy drug abuse. Much can be explained in stories of care failure, violence, and abuse for which the victim is entirely innocent. Ensuring good growth for all is the most important thing we can do to avoid people ending up as heavy drug users with, among other things. hepatitis C. But for all those who are already in this difficult situation of life and cannot get childhood to replay, it is our duty as society to give good follow-up and treatment, completely free from moralism. There is a need for a stronger commitment with more concrete measures to follow the government's strategy. The Left therefore supports today's proposal by the Central Party. We want to go on, and we want to bet on this patient group. Russian and psychiatry patients have, after all, 20 years shorter lifetime than the rest of the population. Only that in itself is a reason to bet. No, we are not going to have action plans for everything and everyone, but sometimes it is also possible for Norway to go ahead. We're at the top of Europe in the number of overdoses. We can lead the WHO’s work to show that it is possible to eradicate an infectious disease such as hepatitis C. The role of municipalities is important in the escalation plan for the drug field. It's a challenge that we say we can't move on because the municipalities are too different or have too different competences. It is time for us to take a tighter grasp of what the municipalities are going to do. This is about a more coherent treatment chain. We don't have many injection rooms in Norway. The Left Party and the Central Party together have made a proposal to establish user rooms. It is also part of a more coherent treatment chain where we are given more emphasis on prevention and better treatment locally. We have to put in more of these measures, and preventing people from getting hepatitis C is the very best medicine. This requires greater cooperation between those who are to direct their efforts. In this area, there is also a very large gap between those working in departments and in drug departments locally, and those working in hospitals with the treatment of hepatitis C patients. That distance we have to do less, and we have to make better use of the resources, because today there is too much resources for specialist treatment inside the hospitals. New medicines help us further – yes, fortunately – but we also have a lot of work to do to avoid detoxification and to avoid so many getting infected. There is an important reason why the Left supports this proposal today. We have the opportunity in Norway to move faster than the WHO points to. This is a good investment both for patients and perhaps also for the Norwegian health sector, which can help the world to get a faster path to the goal, show how it is possible to do so, and there is also a way forward to strengthen local efforts in Norway where treatment chains are too poorly linked. And, as the representative of Sveinung Stensland was in, the municipalities give it too low a priority. There we have a common task to do in Norway – to strengthen municipalities is one thing, but also to provide stronger guidelines on how prevention and local treatment should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e326	Hepatitis C affects some of the most deferred groups in society. 20 000-30,000 people have this disease. Someone knows they have him, others don't. This is a group of people who are often down-prioritised in health care. It's a disease that we can cure, so we can also eradicate it. Of course, it's also profitable, it's a good investment to do this. SV therefore supports the proposal in this matter of the whole heart. The Institute of Public Health has been very clear on this matter, and they are not happy with the follow-up to the strategy. The size should set a goal that we can keep the government responsible for. We do that in important things. In addition, we have the WHO, which has made a pure follow-up to the UN's conservation targets, where it is explicitly stated that a desire to eradicate this disease. We still have a well-developed health system in Norway, and this should be ambitions we can see as a country. The size should at least set a target. I actually feel this as a purely priority debate. When Stensland said in his post that one should have an action plan for everything, I thought: It was interesting! So I went into Storingen.no – notable website – and checked if there were proposed action plans for different things by Right before. That's it. Bent Höie proposed many different action plans while he was in opposition. It is not possible for me to go through the whole list here, but against self-harm and suicide, he wanted an action plan in 2011. One wanted a separate action plan for medics and an action plan for coal. We all agree on the need for an action plan on antibiotics resistance in the health care system. So if that's the main argument, it's really unreal, it might reveal why goes against this. And that's perhaps what's most interesting in this case -- that a simply not to set a goal, not to give the Storting the opportunity to set a goal that we can hold the government responsible for. SV supports the proposal, and we are thinking about the resistance of other parties to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e339	I'm glad that attention is paid to hepatitis C and the burden of this disease on people, especially in the drug environment. The national hepatitis strategy provides guidance for further work and aims to keep infection at the current low level, to reduce the spread of infection in vulnerable groups, and to provide safe and effective treatment to all those who become seriously ill with chronic hepatitis infection. The prevalence of hepatitis C among drug addicts is too high in Norway. We're taking this seriously. We have had dialogue with the professional community and user organisations and have a good overview of the challenges. The question of good treatment is central to the dialogue and the document we are now discussing. The financial responsibility for medicinal products for hepatitis C has been transferred from popular concern to health regions. This was endorsed by the Stortinget in the state budget for 2016. The specialist healthcare system introduces a national system for the introduction of new methods, and decisions on the medicinal products and methods to be financed within the framework of health enterprises are within the care-responsibilities of health regions. Health regions have delegated this power to the Decision Forum for New Methods, which also includes user representatives. The system facilitates thorough national evaluations of all new medicinal products using methodological assessments and contributes to knowledge-based decisions in line with the principles set out by the Storting. The system contributes to an equivalent access to medicinal products and methods across patients and patient groups. New knowledge and access to new medicinal products, such as hepatitis C medicinal products, are part of the evaluations carried out in this system. In this context, a need is continuously adapted in order to evaluate medicinal products to be offered and to which patient groups. A recent tendering procedure for hepatitis C medicinal products has been carried out. About 40 pst. of the cases in Norway are genotype 1. This means, in practice, that more people will be offered the latest treatment. At the same time, health regions report good coverage of non-invasive measurement equipment for testing fibrosis levels around the country. These instruments allow you to determine the degree of morbidity in the liver without having to take a biopsy. In Akershus and Oslo, the offer is best, but there are also most patients with hepatitis C. It is the regional health companies that themselves have to assess the need for this type of measuring equipment, but the overview has also been transmitted to the Stortinget. I believe this shows that health regions are working purposefully and well to ensure more access to treatment with the new medicines for hepatitis C, and that this responds to the main elements of the proposal for a representative. At the same time, concrete measures aimed at the prevention of hepatitis C among injecting drug addicts are being taken. Better information on hepatitis C infection is needed for users and personnel. Here I want to engage in dialogue with user organisations to find the most effective measures. We have continued the appropriations for the follow-up to national overdose strategy and have contributed significant funds to the drug field escalation plan, which is on track to achieve the target of 2.4 billion. kr more for this field at the end of 2020. The municipalities are strengthened, inter alia, by: by providing them with more resources to establish a wide range of services for those with drug problems, including: – not least – low-threshold measures and harm-reduction measures. In sum, this shows that one, in cooperation with healthcare services, is well-informed to follow up on the national hepatitis strategy. I therefore believe that the strategy, as it is designed today, provides a good basis for further action. I am skeptical that every time we take action against patients, we first have to draw up an action plan. Here it is an area where the measures are well defined, where the priority areas are well defined, and where we are actually implementing the measures recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e363	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e368	In May 2016, the World Health Assembly adopted a target for the elimination of viral hepatitis by 2030. The draft National Strategy for the Work against Hepatitis 2015 of the National Health Institute proposed to set an overall target for the complete elimination of hepatitis-related deaths in Norway by 2025. In June 2016, the Ministry of Health presented a national strategy for the fight against hepatitis without such a defined vision or objective. Why not, Councillor?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e375	This is because the objective of eliminating hepatitis C is not possible at a national level. It is only possible through an overall international effort, including: Because we travel more, and also because more people come to Norway with hepatitis C. It is a goal that is suitable for an international forum such as the World Health Organisation. What we have to do at national level is implement the measures that help us do our part of it. And that's why we have measures that are very clearly aimed at both the prevention and treatment of hepatitis C. As I also explained in my statement, what is the most important Norway can contribute at a national level to achieve the international objective of eradicating this disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e382	The Council of State did not capture the shades here between the World Health Assembly, which aims to eliminate viral hepatitis by 2030, and the Institute of Public Health, which wants to set an overall objective of the complete elimination of hepatitis-related deaths in Norway by 2025. Perhaps I was confusing in my questioning, but why does the national strategy of the Council of State not have a goal of eliminating hepatitis-related deaths in Norway? Does he think that there is an international issue that cannot be reached nationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e387	No, and therefore, the strategy we have presented contains the measures necessary to achieve the objective of not killing people in Norway with hepatitis C-related diseases. This is done by reducing the level of infection, not least for vulnerable groups, and by providing safe and effective treatment to all those who become seriously ill with chronic hepatitis C. That's what the actions are to achieve that goal. It is also part of the strategy that has now been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e392	The recommended strategy of the Institute for Public Health states that Norway ‘should develop an action plan for chronic hepatitis where prevention and treatment are seen in the context’. There was a recommendation in a strategy that was much more concrete than the strategy put forward by the government. The proposal to develop an action plan – which is a recommended measure – is now being voted down. My question is, what kind of arguments does the government have to go against the recommendations of the Swedish Institute of Public Health to have its own action plan against hepatitis?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e399	That's a purely practical question. It is a question of whether it is most appropriate to go the way of drawing up an action plan, or whether it is most appropriate — in an area where a strategy is actually being implemented — rather than going directly to action. My recommendation has been the last one, because we are in the process of a difficult escalating plan for the drug field where very much of the prevention measures are in place, and not least where there are also concrete appropriations. So this is an area that is now clearly prioritised. On the treatment side, we have established a system that has also joined the Storting and that works. We get better access to more effective treatment for larger patient groups through that system. In the test area, which is the third area, we see that there is a good expansion of the testing possibilities. In fact, we are at the heart of what an action plan would be about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e408	I believe that the Council of State says that even if it is recommended, an action plan does not need to be adopted in this area, because the measures are defined. In the proposal for a strategy by the Institute of Public Health, many concrete measures are recommended. Take, for example: Increase testing capabilities, to which the government itself refers: It is recommended that a full list of selected groups be tested. Can the Council of State say that health services are then imposed? When it comes to teaching and knowledge, it is a proposed measure to have mandatory teaching of chronic hepatitis in all specialist courses — an example of a concrete action. Is this, then, a measure that is contained because there is no need for an action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e417	Developing good testing opportunities is – which is also my response to the Stortinget – part of the health region's care-for-responsibilities, which are also followed up, and the lists and overviews are a response to the Stortinget. Developing new knowledge and, not least, improving knowledge in the service is already part of the agreed escalation plan for the drug field. So these are areas that are now being systematically worked on, and that's also the background to my opinion that it's better now to implement the actions that we're actually already doing and have adopted, which are also funded, than to spend time and resources developing an action plan within this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e422	We agree on the money, and the money is on the table to prevent more, including: through the escalating plan – 2,4 billion. DKK over five years. But we see that the number of overdoses doesn't go down very fast. This suggests that there is still a lot of injecting drug use, and it is difficult to transfer users to inhalation methods. Syringes pose a high risk. But there is still much to be gained from better organisation of services. When the money is in place, the question is what you want to do with, among other things. Laws, regulations and the type of regulation — the spray room regulation is part of it — to extend it to a wider user perspective. It also applies to the competence to be there. One can look at it with hepatitis clinics in the largest cities — this is the biggest challenge in large cities, where we have many injecting drug users — and more actively using prisons and drug treatment institutions to treat. Can the State Council say anything about which measures are the highest priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e429	There is a correct description of the representative here – that we still have major challenges related to injecting drugs in Norway, and we are in the process of implementing a separate action plan related to overdose deaths. As regards cases of hepatitis C in Norway, it declined from 1740 in 2010 to 1 183 in 2015, and currently 770 cases of hepatitis C have been reported in 2016. It may seem that one is in the midst of a positive development in hepatitis C infection. Many of the measures put forward here by the representative are precisely those contained in the plan of escalation. Establishing reception centres in large cities to operate low-threshold health services and to expand health services in prisons will be important measures, including to prevent, detect and thus start the treatment of hepatitis C.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e439	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e446	I feel the need to comment on something said in the debate, too many, at least several, do not support an action plan because it is unnecessary and one cannot have an action plan for each individual disease. I think that argument is being quite sought here today. Firstly, there are certainly many examples of action plans adopted here, covering smaller groups than those with hepatitis C. Secondly, this is, in fact, something recommended by those who developed a draft strategy, that the strategy must be followed up by an action plan that looks both at prevention and treatment in the context. Thirdly, I had never made a proposal for an action plan if the strategy was good, but one must assume that the strategy pursued was strongly criticised by all user organisations. The strategy was on five sides. The draft from the Institute for Public Health was on 40 pages, with many specific measures. Even the objectives had been removed, which was also anchored in the World Health Organisation. So we have a strategy that doesn't include the goal that the World Health Organization has seen. Then the priority message will be referred to. As a matter of principle, we're all behind it. There is nothing against having an action plan for an neglected group in the criteria adopted in the priority message. It's at least in my view completely in line with that. Representatives from the government's party refer to the golden rule that one has done so much for intoxication and psychiatry, but then one must tell the whole truth, because the golden rule is the rusted rule, he does not ensure that intoxication and psychiatry are prioritised in the specialist services. We are committed to supporting the escalation plan for drug use in the municipalities. There's not just earmarked resources there, and a lot of good things can happen within that plan, but now we're talking about eradicating a disease in Norway. In other countries, for example, where this is well under way. Scotland, start one with a political will to do something about it, and that is the will I lack here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e457	When a non-voting action plan shows a non-political will, it has been. As the Council of State was in, one here went right to action. We took the right to take action to launch an important work for a group that – as the representative Toppe rightly says – is a neglected group. Why is it neglected? Well, that's because it hasn't been prioritised before. Then the effort on the drugs field and within the psychiatry that this government stands for will be ruined. I remind you that the escalating plan for the drug field-- $2.4 a.m. kr – is the largest promise ever made for this group. I wonder if the representatives from the centre party and SV can refer to some government that has done the same for this group earlier. To the SV, who is also talking about priorities, and does not prioritize being in the debate any longer than one has made comments – and goes: there were some things we could discuss further, such as this with the Golden Rule, which is a very important political signal, showing political will – as the representative Toppe calls for – to bet on the weakest patient groups. I asked the question in my main post: can any representative point to any group that has had a greater increase in efforts in terms of both the crown and the number of patients in recent years? When it comes to prevention, there are a number of measures in the context of the special escalation plan and the action plan on overdose deaths targeting this particular group, which are most at risk of infection. It needs to be added that an eradicated hepatitis does not benefit from doing so only in Norway; it is a global challenge. These viruses like to travel with those who travel. Very many Northmen travel to the Far East, where there is much more hepatitis than in this part of the world. So it's interesting to see that it points out that the municipalities don't do what we want. There is an interesting debate within this with municipal autonomy. To what extent is Stortinget to govern the municipalities? Do we want strong municipalities, which can do their own priorities? It is interesting that a municipality that is run by, among others. The centre party, Left and SV, has as mantra ‘good enough’ and does not give priority to using the increased framework we have provided for preventive health work. I'm talking again about my home municipality, Haugesund, which has over 100 million. kr in profit, and as an active – active – decides not to spend all the money we have spent in the framework of municipalities, for preventive health work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e472	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e477	In the article and in my proposal, I do not criticize the government's expenditure. It came up in the debate. That is why I replied to it. When it comes to the fact that those who vote against an action plan are also opposed to action: No, that is not the way it is, but when one promotes a strategy that is purely for goals and for instruments, that is what the problem is – it shows that there is not enough action. The representative of Stensland asks if I can point to another group that has been strengthened more in the budget, etc. No, but can one point to another group who had accepted chronic infection and who did not receive treatment before liver injury? It does not exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e486	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e500	We are today deciding to provide the basis for the Health Protection Act to establish health records in a state of emergency. There will hardly be any major debate on this, because there is an overall committee that supports the Ministry's legislative proposals. But I think it's worth stopping so far up by what we're doing here today. The background to the proposal is that in several situations health authorities have found that information on patients may need to be collected and systematised in order to obtain an overview of the extent, causality and disease development that may be the basis for action. I'll use a concrete example to show the need we have. The Giardia outbreak in Bergen was an environmental incident that led to a major outbreak — that was in 2004. We will also stop at Östersund and Skellefteå in Sweden, which had similar outbreaks in 2006 and 2008-2009. These three are actually among the largest bacterial outbreaks of drinking water sources throughout the Western world. Sometimes we discuss climate and climate-related events. Why this happens in the north of the western world, it may be worth stopping by. This could also say that we can expect more such outbreaks in the future. There's reason to gain more knowledge about what's going on. This affects people over a long time; up to 6,000 people in Bergen were affected, 1,400 got a safe diagnosis, and up to 500 people live with long-term effects after this incident. This is an example of the need for a type of emergency registry, which we provide legal support to set up today. So we're going to have the opportunity to follow patients over a longer period of time and also to research more about what's happened. There is a need for more systematic knowledge of the type of events and their effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e509	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e534	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e543	I want to start by congratulating the President on his birthday – and she didn't club me! It's a serious matter we're discussing when it comes to both of these proposals. The use of coercion is a very interventional measure, with the risk of inflicting injuries, injuries and serious traumas on patients and users. The threshold for the use of coercion shall therefore be high. The Health Committee will praise the VG for lifting and documenting the contentious and illegal use of coercion. This is information that should have emerged through established reporting systems and supervisory bodies. According to the VG, there were 4 000 cases of belt laying in 2015, divided into 1 200 persons, of which approx. 650 who, according to professionals, are contentious or illegal forced use. There are 60 complaints registered, where 15 have been followed. VG revealed that forced use is increasing in the evenings, nights, weekends and holidays when permanent workers are not at work. Problem drug use has been recorded in all hospitals. Information contradicting VG documentation has not been obtained. The Committee takes a very serious view of what has been revealed and is pleased that the Minister of Health immediately addressed the challenges and made demands on health businesses. In the media, the use of psychiatry is often illustrated by the use of belts. But for many patients who have been assaulted, retention can be seen as even more invasive. We have received the same feedback on the use of coercive medication, where patients say that they prefer belt laying rather than losing their senses. There are considerable differences in the use of coercion, and many institutions, such as the United States, Japan and Japan. Lovisenberg has introduced new knowledge and methodology that has significantly reduced the use of coercion. Collaborative guidance has proved to be a well-suited method of competence transfer and should be used systematically to provide an equivalent and professionally updated treatment provision across the country. During the hearing, the Norwegian Psychiatric Association stressed that there is a small group of patients responsible for a high proportion of coercive use in the field of mental health protection. These patients are in the emergency departments and the safety departments and should therefore be prioritised. There is a need for increased competence and attention to the use of coercive measures against people with dementia and cognitive failure. Lock-in is perceived as extreme detention, and coercive medication is widespread. It is a fundamental principle in our healthcare system to treat patients in an equivalent way, and current demente practices can be perceived as discrimination against a large patient group. Today, we have different legislation on the use of coercion in health, one for mental health, one for somatic health, including dents and people with cognitive failure, one for mental retardation and one for drug addicts. The rules also differ between local health services and specialist health services. The Committee is pleased that the NOU work is now under way to address the need for changes in enforcement legislation in the health and care sector. It is an important principle that patients, users and relatives experience that equivalent situations are managed with the same requirements for professionalism, participation, documentation, transparency, remedies and legal certainty. This is also important for health professionals and supervision. In its work on the Borderless Care project, the Children’s Ombudsman has documented a very complex challenge picture for the use of coercive measures against children in child protection and mental health protection. Many young people under public care have very poor health — a mixture of mental health, alcohol and generally reduced general conditions. Therefore, in addition to harmonising the legislation, targeted work is needed to ensure that children are provided with equivalent health services in relation to other children. The Committee takes a serious view that we have such poor reporting systems on the use of coercion. This is nothing new. Differences between the actual use of coercion and data from the Norwegian patient register have been known since 2007. It is a serious cross-section of thought that the most profound and ethically most problematic treatment of patients is the one that is being poorly documented and of which we have the least knowledge of the extent of. The development of electronic reporting systems in the specialist healthcare service is top priority. It is important that the systems become compatible with central registers and that there are unique definitions of what should be reported. In order to do a proper job, the control commissions must be able to see the patient’s course, what has been tried before the use of coercion, and how the possible use of coercion has been followed up with the patient afterwards. It is unclear how the use of coercion is reported in the municipal health service. The Labour Party believes that the reasons for improper use of coercion are well documented by the VG, the Civil Ombudsman’s investigations, user organisations, professionals and research, and believes that resources should be used to ensure the proper use of coercion rather than extensive investigation. We therefore do not support the proposal of the Central Party for scrutiny.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e573	President, I guess I'll also join the congratulations on the day. It is a serious matter that we are dealing with today. The articles and stories about the people in the VG series of articles about coercion have affected us all. Last year it was revealed that 650 out of 4000 shrouds in mental health protection are controversial or illegal. It's a frighteningly high number. The large amount of errors documented is serious, but not least it is offensive and unacceptable for the individual who has been belted. It's about detention. It is unacceptable and unlawful to use coercive measures to compensate for the lack of qualified personnel or as disciplinary measures or to prevent unrest or harassment in departments. In the Right, we are very pleased that the Council of State came to the Storting so quickly to explain how he follows up in this area. The size has now been given the opportunity to have a thorough discussion on the use of coercion, through consideration of these two representative proposals that we are debating today. It is important that the spread of illegal coercion is put on the agenda, and I will pay tribute to the thorough work of the VG, which has helped raise the issues. The right is satisfied that the Minister of Health has already taken several steps to follow up the legislation, including: through legislative proposals to increase legal certainty and participation for patients in mental health protection. The Minister of Health has also taken the initiative of appointing a legislative committee which is going through the rules of coercion in the health and care sectors as a whole. This is important. It is also important to improve reporting and to provide an overview of quality indicators, which will be public in health Norway. The right, along with a majority, in the position of the case, has made it clear that we expect user-friendly electronic enforcement reporting tools to be put in place. We are pleased that, in the Minister's reply to the Committee, health professionals take this matter very seriously, that work on cleaning up is in progress, and that in all health regions, plans have been put forward for improved data reporting, for less and more correct use of coercion. It's positive, but we expect health companies to have a high pressure on this. The right agrees with the proposers that there is a need for evidence of the prevalence of coercion and evidence that there is a systematic effort to change practices according to professional and legal requirements. But the Right also believes, along with a majority in the UK, that we have already gained a lot of knowledge about the very causes of the problem of coercion. In addition to the VG's studies, the Civil Ombudsman has carried out his studies, and we have received several opinions from user organisations, not least from professionals and the research community itself. The right therefore believes that an investigation will not provide us with any more answers or better documentation as a basis for following up this situation than what we have today. We therefore do not support the proposal to re-examine the use of force. However, we believe it is important to prioritize resources and ensure proper use of coercion. We cannot accept that there is such widespread illegal use of coercion. I would therefore like to emphasise again that we will follow closely the way health businesses take responsibility for making the necessary improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e590	The use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection has been very high over several years, with widespread use of involuntary medication, forced admissions and large geographical differences. At the same time, there are different practices for registration, reporting and inadequate training. There is a need to look at the use of coercive measures throughout the healthcare sector, including mental health, drug care, dementia and child protection. We are all particularly concerned about the use of coercion against children and young people. The use of coercion may cause injury, injury and serious trauma to the patient. The threshold for the use of coercion must therefore be very high. Today, we have four different legislations dealing with the use of coercion. The rules also differ between local health services and specialist health services. Therefore, before the summer of 2016, a legislative committee was set up to address the need for changes to the enforcement legislation in the healthcare sector. I share the health minister’s view of the gravity of the situation and the need to improve registration and reporting practices. It is a serious cross-section of thought that the most intrusive treatment of patients in specialist healthcare is the one that is being poorly documented and of which we have the least knowledge of the extent of. The Eastern Town Committee has been given the task of carrying out an overall review and assessing the need for revision and modernisation of the legislation and proposing the necessary legislative changes to meet the needs of current and future health and care services. The committee will also discuss the relationship with our international commitments, including: The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and assess the need for regulatory changes to meet those obligations. In its work, the sample shall also look at adjacent coercive legislation and propose any amendments. Coordination and modernisation of legislation is important. The Progress Party takes a serious view of the widespread and incorrect use of coercion in Norwegian psychiatric hospitals, documented in the media, and is pleased with the proposals for action presented by the Minister of Health in his statement in Stortinget on 7 December 2016, which aims to increase legal certainty and reduce the use of coercion. The Party of Progress is in favour of the government appointing a legislative committee to review today’s enforcement legislation. Another important step is the lifting of coercion into the governance dialogue with regional health companies, and the revision of the 2016 mission document, among others. it was clarified that enterprises are required to provide a brief status for the establishment of systems that ensure correct and complete data on the use of coercive substances in mental health protection, in the Norwegian patient register. It is equally important that the country’s hospitals work specifically to raise awareness of the use of coercion and that hospitals are now required to conduct dialogue meetings with patients and user organisations on their experience of coercion. VG discovered that forced use is increasing on evenings, nights and holidays, when permanent workers are not at work. Several treatment institutions have worked purposefully to reduce the use of coercion, and it is important that these experiences be disseminated. I notice that the Workers' Party and the Centre's party point to a reduction in the number of bed places as a partial response to a large use of coercion. There is reason to remember that this reduction in the number of beds started under the red-green government, on the grounds that one could not live one's life at institutions, but that the help should be given there the individual lives. This is a view that has had broad political support, but we can well see that the offer in the municipalities is not well-developed everywhere. ACT teams and user-controlled beds have shown very good results, in terms of less need for postage. There is reason to believe that as a result, the need for coercion will also be reduced. It is therefore important to expand more of such offers. The member of the Committee on the Left, who has promoted the proposal for an investigation into forced use, points to the fact that the proposed legislative committee on the use of mental health services states that it will result in a NOU and that the Left therefore considers its proposal to be fulfilled. In the case of the other representative proposal, which the Central Party is promoting, which deals with an examination of what has been, only the Central Party itself wants to look back. The rest of the committee wants to look forward and indicates that we have a lot of knowledge about the reasons. Now resources need to be used to ensure proper and less coercive use.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e620	I put myself in the line of congratulations on such a big day. There is a need for increased knowledge and attention to be paid to the coercive issue, regardless of the basis on which action has been taken. The different situations of coercion that have emerged in the media lately, both in the VG in the field of mental health, and in Stavanger Evening magazine in the case of Glasshenta, have put their mark on us all. But most of all, there have been traces in those who have experienced the use of coercion. Force, which should be an emergency response only when all other measures have been tried and there are no other alternatives, does not always prove to be used in that way. Being subjected to coercion is serious to the person who is exposed to it. A defrauder's freedom and integrity, and it can cause lifelong damage. Many of us remember the young woman who was at the NRK and told us how she experienced it when people came too close to her, because she was forced when she was admitted to anorexia. She moved on to the chair and couldn't have anyone next to her for many years afterwards. The Health and Care Committee, in its budgetary work before Christmas, considered that there was a need for closer follow-up, in particular by the Control Commissions and how they carried out their mandate in the day-to-day work on this subject, in order to meet each user. Some hospitals and some departments show that it is possible to reduce the use of coercive measures. Other hospitals and institutions really need to bring with them what hospitals, for example. Lovisenberg has done. It is also good that the Council of State in its mission documents has instructed health companies to conduct manager-based dialogue meetings. This in itself does not change anything, but it nevertheless creates changes in attitudes throughout the organisation regarding the use of coercion — from the bottom to the top of a hospital — and that this is something you want to do differently. However, when the Christian People's Party will not support the proposal for an investigation, it is because we believe that we know so much that we need to prioritize the resources in order to ensure proper use of force rather than having an investigation. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party will insist that it is incredibly important to get all the tools in place to succeed in this, and not least to ensure that businesses and commissions do what the Storting has now asked them to do. Therefore, the Christian People's Party says a great yes to less use of coercion and no to investigation or investigation of coercion now. Now, the Eastern Town Committee, which is to look at the enforcement rules in the health and care sector, needs to harmonise its work with the Children's Law Committee, so that we get a whole around this with coercion, whether in terms of health, child protection, care for the elderly or whatever it may be. That is why the Christian People's Party does not support the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e637	VG’s monitoring and detection of extensive, serious and illegal coercive use in Norwegian psychiatry is a very serious matter, which requires a completely different approach and political action than any other criticism that is regularly directed against the provision of patient treatment in Norwegian health services. It is critical in itself that it was not the Minister of Health and Welfare who, through his department or his directorate, had carried out such a survey as VG has now done. As a result, it is through the media that the Storting is made aware of one of the most serious patient cases that have been raised during this majority period. VG has made patients in mental health protection a major service by documenting illegal coercive use by a selection of institutions and thus creating political debate on the topic. But it's a public responsibility to make sure that we have systems in the healthcare system that detect faulty practices and that reveal that patients' legal security is not being maintained. This responsibility lies with the permanent government. The disclosures to VG are based on the necessary trust we should have in the supervisory authorities of the Norwegian health care system. Such a continuous and long-standing failure of the system should have been discovered by the supervisory authorities, the department and the directorate. VG has not carried out a holistic review of Norwegian psychiatry and forced use. Newspaper has conducted a survey by looking at the coercive protocols from 14 institutions for 2015. Both the Minister of Health and Care and others point out that there is no need for more documentation from the public sector, as there is no doubt about VG monitoring. Of course, the Central Party and I do not doubt the reports of the VG, but in respect of the meaning of this subject for single patients, and for the abuses that have been done, and given the inconsistency of the monitoring of the VG and the seriousness and extent of the crime in what has been investigated, we believe that there must be a public responsibility for an overarching review of all aspects of the use of force in Norwegian mental health protection. A public review must give those who have been forced, clear answers. There is a need for a full overview of the use of coercive measures, the manner in which he behaves, and the causes. Such knowledge does not have Norwegian health care today. A review of the use of force in Norwegian psychiatry is needed to acquire knowledge to assure patients good, dignified and defenceful psychiatric health services in the future, but also to demonstrate the injustice and illegal coercive treatment of patients who have been treated in Norwegian psychiatry. When the Health Directorate was not familiar with e.g. the existence of large seasonal and daily variations in the use of mechanical coercive agents shows that there is far too little knowledge of coercive use in Norwegian health services today. To ensure proper use of coercion and reduced use of coercion, a start must be made by securing documented knowledge of coercive use in the Norwegian healthcare system. The proposal for a public inquiry has been supported by the Equality and Discrimination Office, by Professor Jan Fridthjof Bernt at the University of Bergen and by the head of the Human Rights Committee of the Law Association, Mette Yvonne Larsen. The Civilombodsmann, Aage Thor Falkanger, also stated to the VG on 21 November 2016 that he is concerned about the legal security of psychiatric patients. A public review should, in the view of the Centre Party, be 5 to 10 years back in time, as there are probably very many patients who over several years have experienced illegal forced use by the Public Health Service. In respect of this patient group, a public investigation should take place. I would like to make the following suggestions on behalf of the Centre Party: ‘The government asks the government to launch a public investigation into forced use in Norwegian psychiatry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e659	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e664	Today we are discussing two representative proposals relating to coercion in the psychiatry: the Left's proposal for a legislative committee and the proposal of the Central Party for an examination. For the left hand side, it's important to establish that we're looking forward. Now, using resources on a review is, in our view, the wrong use of resources. So it's like here, there's been a little bit of porridge about what's suggested, what are revelations, propositions from the Council of State and other things. We in the Left are at least happy that we in the settings of Prop. 147 L for 2015-2016 saw a change to widen the proposed legislative range and give it a mandate to result in a public investigation. It is important to include all parts of the welfare sector using coercive measures. We also see major challenges in the future. The more people living at home related to the care of the elderly, the greater the challenges we can face with coerciveness at home. Then we are particularly concerned about child protection, where we see that there are a lot of different practices, and where abuse committed in early childhood can be faced with new abuses in the form of coercion under public law. It doesn't give a good life. For further development, it is important that we put in the system the competences we have, and all the resources that exist. We see today, as many people have been about, too much inequality around the country, it's itself within ICT systems and routines or within competences. When it comes to competence, VG revealed that part of the unwanted coercion use accumulates a little in connection with holidays and temporary work. That's something we have to work with more systematically. Then it's also about the control commissions and the supervisory bodies we're going to have. We can no longer stick to control commissions based on the needs of the 1800s. We have to modernise and develop them. We have good examples, and several have mentioned Lovisenberg. I want to draw up Nordfjord psychiatricians, and we see how they have drastically reduced forced use over the last few years by facilitating activity, user-controlled beds and places. Taking users on board and developing their skills will have a major impact on reducing coercive use. We also need to go more offensively to work in the governmental bodies. I have previously stated that one of the hospital companies must have a special responsibility for psychiatry. We need to research more and invest more in psychiatry and more closely monitor what's going on outside the world in research related to psychiatry. We need a big effort on digital support and telemedicine. This will lead to increased standardisation and more treatment can be done under the conditions of patients. We have to bet more on the outpatient team, and we need a renewal of Norwegian medics, where there are also great variations, there is a lot of idealism and some coincidences, too, but we see that psychologists, psychiatrists and psychiatric nurses are considerably underrepresented in today's Norwegian medics. We have a job to do throughout the treatment chain to strengthen competence and organisation in order to reduce coercive use as much as necessary – we do not have to live it to the full, because there is also some good care under compulsion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e683	The fourth year was a demanding year for the part of mental health protection working with patients with the most severe mental disorders. VG first revealed a lack of registration and reporting of enforcement decisions and later a partially illegal and professionally disputed forced use that goes far beyond the extent to which the hospitals themselves have reported to the authorities. This very serious incident shows a lack of patient safety and the responsibility of healthcare companies for the adequate competence, resources and management support of personnel to deal with demanding patient situations, regardless of the time of day, week or year. Now I feel that the work on cleaning up is well under way. I see that the matter has been a source of concern to the managers of the regional health companies, and that this is now being taken seriously. For example, in Health Nord and Health Mid-Norway last year systematic follow-up actions were carried out on the basis of the Civil Ombudsman's report and the reference to the VG, and in all health regions concrete action plans for better data reporting and minor and proper use of coercion have been launched – in line with the management requirements of the Department. Health regions are asked to report when systems for proper reporting of forced data will be in place: Health South-East states that quality-assured, complete figures for the use of coercive substances in 2015/2016 are complete from all health establishments/hospitals in the region. The exception is Oslo University Hospital, which is to complete its own work during this month. Furthermore, it is stated that they are planning their own project, which will continue until 1 November, related to the reduction in the use of mechanical coercive agents. In parallel, a system is being used to report complete data on coercive use by the same date. Health Nord considers the registration of coercion in its region to be good. According to the company, complete data has been provided to the Norwegian patient register for 2015 and a comparison with the forced protocols shows few deviations. In 2016, the review showed a slight deviation. Health Nord states that they will introduce regional enforcement procedures to harmonise registration practices. In the Health West, work has been carried out on regional procedures for the use of coercive substances in the final phase and is planned to be used during February 2017. The entity discloses that they have come a long way in ensuring equal understanding and equal registration of the use of coercion in health establishments through the regional project to be concluded on 1 May of this year. In Health Mid-Norway, better registration measures shall be completed by 1 June 2017 and put into service by health businesses as of 1 September. In cooperation between health enterprises, user representatives, control commissions and county officials, a strategy is now being developed for each health business for the correct registration and correct and reduced use of coercion by 1 April 2017. I would like to stress that the Civil Ombudsman continues his visit to mental health protection this year as well. As several sites are visited, we will get a clearer picture of the enforcement practices of the institutions. Together with the ongoing legislative committee, which has a very comprehensive mandate, and the other measures the government has taken in the field of law and services, I believe that, overall, we have a good and results-oriented follow-up related to coercion in mental health protection. Finally, I note that the majority of the Committee considers that an examination is not necessary now, as it will hardly provide us with significant other types of answers or better evidence as a basis for following up the situation. At the same time, I fully agree with the majority that it is necessary to monitor closely whether the managers of health businesses and control commissions take responsibility for making the necessary changes in a sufficiently serious way. I still want to have full pressure on the follow-up of the case. Of course, if the results show that this is not going in the right direction, I will consider new measures all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e705	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e710	It is good to hear that there is so much progress in getting an overview of the use of force in the specialist health service, for all types of unlawful, illegal and improper use of force is serious. What also concerns is the use of coercion in primary health services. What systems do you have to report forcibly? Have you thought about how it will develop? We get the impression that especially older people with cognitive failure and dementia are being subjected to either coercive medication or incarceration, which is perceived as a pretty strong assault, too. So the question is, what is the status of reporting of coercion in primary health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e715	As the representative is involved, there is a completely different system related to the use of coercion in the municipalities. It is such that the enforcement measures that can be used in the municipalities are also at a different level than those that can be used in the specialist health service. But I'm also, like the representative, concerned about the use of coercion in the municipalities. This is one of the reasons why the mandate of the legislative committee specifically addresses issues related to different regulation, use, registration and follow-up of enforcement in the specialist health services and municipalities and among different patient groups. Today’s legislation is divided – both horizontally and vertically – in such a way that it does not really correspond to the needs and movements of users, patients and health services, and it is a central part of the mandate of the legislative committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e720	We agree that legal work is important and that it is harmonised for different patient groups and between specialist and primary health services, but the challenge has been – at least so far in the specialist healthcare service – that we have not had sufficient knowledge of use and inequality in use. So the question is, are there any plans to create some reporting systems? Are there reporting systems, electronically or otherwise, that cover the possible use of coercion in municipal health services?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e725	I am not aware that there is any overall reporting of the use of coercion in the community health service. It is, as I was in my previous answer, a completely different law relating to this in the municipal health service. But there are reports, supervision, etc. documenting errors and excessive use of coercion also in this part of the service. It is therefore so important that we get a comprehensive review of this, and are assessed both in terms of regulation, control and follow-up as a whole issue, so that we do not take this piece by piece and divided. Of course, we are also working on the follow-up to the recommendations of the Arianson Committee on Patient Safety and Quality. We aim to promote matters for Stortinget about this before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e730	I have a simple question. Now, for three years, the Council of State has our government, and how could it actually happen that neither the Health Directorate, the Department, nor the Council of State somehow discovered and got information about what happened in the psychiatry? That it was VG that put this on track is, of course, rocking the confidence of the entire oversight system. My question is how it could happen that it was VG who provided this information.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e735	It has long been known that there is a challenge related to the variation in the use of coercion, and therefore also the use of coercion in addition to what is under the law, and what is intended for the use of coercion, namely that it should be the last resort. Therefore, national action plans for the proper use of coercive measures have been in place over a long period of time, as demonstrated by the documentation recorded, that they have not produced results. A number of measures taken to address this issue were initiated before VG’s revelations, but what VG did, as no one else has done, was to work systematically through the documentation. This gave a much clearer picture of the extent of the use of coercion, in concrete terms, in the various health establishments than in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e740	I wonder if the government doesn't see that the ministry itself should have done just that, had a systematic review of what one saw. Will the Council of State learn from it in view of the future, and also in view of other policy areas where coercive use can become a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e745	The initiative and the need to re-evaluate this whole system through a dedicated public sample was a decision taken on the basis of the knowledge and experience that had already emerged and that, among other things, was based on what patient organisations have addressed. It wasn't a result of the work that VG did. The work that VG has done has been very important, precisely because there has been a completely different evidence of knowledge in this area that goes beyond the impression of the existing evidence. So it's right that it shows that there's a constant need to look at how a job with supervision, patient safety and quality. It is an important part of the follow-up to the report of the Arianson Committee, which will soon be presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e752	Firstly, Norway has been encouraged to pursue a mental health strategy. I hope we don't have that long. So to the Women's Country Committee, because it's about the big structures for managing and distributing health resources. Some have ambitions to liquidate regional health businesses. Others may have ambitions to reduce the number of hospital enterprises, so that there are not so many variations in the number of hospitals you run when there is one hospital enterprise. But I can't see today that any hospital or regional health care company has given psychiatry a special priority, given by us. Can the Council of State see that there is one way to go to show that it is possible to do something, that goes ahead and drags the others behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e759	Work on the overall strategy for mental health is well under way and will be presented before the summer. With regard to the discussion of governance systems up against this, there is something we have to take on, that we have variation not only between health businesses and health regions, but also variation within the same unit of a health business. For example, the Civil Ombudsman's report from the UNN visit just shows that within the same unit there is a wide variation between departments. What has been important to me is to look at how you can systematically learn from those who get good solutions, and work for that knowledge to be used in other hospitals, in other departments. It's now doing a systematic job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e767	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e774	There are actually many parallel discussions going on in this debate on these two issues, but I would just like to make a few brief comments on what is at the heart of the proposal, that is, the question of scrutiny or not. For my own part, and for the Workers' Party's part, this has not been a question we have taken lightly. I assume that there is no such thing as the ones that today are a little light, I would say, suggesting, that anyone who wants to look back in this case – as some suggest – is just concerned about looking back, while everyone else is forward and will just look forward to solving the problems. This is perhaps the most serious thing we've had on the table during this magnification period. Kjersti Toppe is quite right in that. Kjersti Toppe is also quite right in saying that what VG has done in an affordable way is a selection of and not a complete review of everything that has happened in this time. Looking back at the last period of growth, from today's government parties, it was a bit of a campaign to investigate what many say is less serious than what's here now. It's e.g. reason for pointing out that today's state council, Bent Höie, until he became the state council, required an examination of the capital process here in Oslo. There he turned and pointed to many of the same arguments that are now being used, that now is the time to look ahead and not use energy and forces on what is behind us. That is why I would say that for our part this has not been a simple balance, and I also understand that it has not been a simple balance for the Minister of Health or Health. After all, he writes in the committee’s answer that he is uncertain as to whether review is correct. I guess if you were absolutely sure, you wouldn't have written that you were unsure whether it was a question or not. This is a difficult issue, and when we have nevertheless stated that we do not see the need for such a drastic instrument as to examine, it is about the arguments that have been put forward, among other things. by the representative Ruth Grung and others in this room. What I want to say in the end is that we are in any case stunned, because when everyone agrees on a description of reality that is so intense for many individual patients, and not least too many hospitals, which have been given a real boost when you look at some figures, we think – especially as regards the follow-up to the work that the Baltic Region Committee is going to do – that more concrete measures should be put on the table of the Stortinge faster, for example. on the question of what might be a more sensible control body, to replace the control commissions currently in existence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e787	This is an important debate, and it is a broad debate. What's a little bit of my concern, which also some people have taken up here, is the municipal section. I feel quite confident that there will be a clean-up in the specialist health service. I'm a little more concerned about what's going on in the municipalities, it's getting older, and it's being less developed. I see a huge variation. One of the fields in which I've been involved a lot concerns the less developed, where the variation from state to state, for example. forced use is alarming. The quality is also very different from municipality to municipality. I think it's important to look at quality and hold it up against, for example, forced use. Then I think one will find quite clear contexts: poor quality provides a lot of forced use, good quality results in little forced use. At least that's my hypothesis. It brings me a little bit to the supervisor today. I have a feeling that we have a supervisory system that, on the one hand, feels bound by a law that gives municipalities a great deal of space for action in some areas, while the supervisory authority seems to scratch the surface just in terms of legal matters. I think we need a system where you can go in and check the quality of municipal care services in a much more thorough way. I don't think this problem will come to life if you can't go in and check the quality in a completely different way from the supervision. So everything is related to everything, kind of. I hope that it will also be a theme for the range that will look at coercive use across the board, from psychiatry out to the municipalities, and that we will find more effective ways to check the quality. In this way, I believe that we are going to achieve a completely different objective in terms of unnecessary and, in part, illegal forced use in those services as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e794	It was the intervention of the representative, Mr Mikalsen, that led me to take the floor a second time now, because the debate on scrutiny is important. That's what I want to say. Nor has it been a simple decision for the Left to say that we're going to look forward and not backwards, because it's obvious that we lack a lot of system skills, and there's no doubt that there's system failure over a long period of time backwards that makes us stand in some of the discussions we're doing now, and have some of the challenges. But for us, it's been a compilation of the situation we're in, looking at the possibilities we have, versus the effect we have of looking backwards, which gave us the answer that now we're putting the resources into getting a development. And there are so many who have gone ahead that it should be possible to pull the others after themselves. But still there are major challenges. If we go to the research and development appropriations, we see that the psychiatry is far behind the somatic state of hospitals. If we go to the municipal sector, which unfortunately we don't spend too much of our R & D resources on, psychiatry is going to be a lot of trouble. So here, there's system failure all over the line. We have some major challenges in prioritizing here. Then the systems have to get better, and that's our responsibility. Then we're over to the discussion about, among other things. the supervisory authorities. The control commissions are part of this, but also the statesmen. We are now having a debate on how to organise that supervisory function. Perhaps there is too much inequality in the supervisory tasks of the county officials today. Is part of the failure we see, that we do not have strong enough and equal enough competence and capacity out of the county supervisors? Then we have a discussion about municipal structure and municipal sizes. Calling for more capacity and better structures, more competence in municipalities, which face major challenges, we also need to discuss the structure for them and not just transfer and demand more competence from a local government sector that is perhaps more than anything else under pressure in terms of tasks and that, in today's structure, should not get so many more. We should then at least discuss the structure of the supervision we need, and whether we should leave too much responsibility to the municipal sector here, when they are struggling to establish both competence and capacity in the care of the elderly, in the protection of children. So we're facing some structural challenges, but just looking forward now is the Left's answer to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e803	I took the floor after hearing the representative Micaelsen, because I very much agree with what he says, that this is perhaps one of the most serious issues we are dealing with in this period. It is serious when you see the examples of how people have been treated and how bad it is many times. There is no doubt that the Toppes – and the Centre Party – proposals are things that have been carefully considered and that it has been difficult to decide what to do. But I very much agree with the conclusion that the Council of State has drawn, namely that there is a lot of knowledge and much evidence on exactly these issues. That's why I think it's important to start looking forward, and to make sure that you follow up on good practice when you're going to take action that includes coercive action against patients. I also agree with the representative Freddy de Ruiter that there are challenges in the municipal health and care services to have the right knowledge and knowledge and competence, as well as that of course you have enough staff, and that the supervisory authorities follow up in a good way – there may be differences between county offices and county offices and the procedures you have in some municipalities. I think it has been a neat and good debate, this might have been a slightly different debate. Everyone agrees on what we want, namely, to work to prevent coercion from being committed against people. I think everyone has seen examples that do something about you, when you see how some people have experienced public treatment and use of coercion. But I also think it's good to see that we have a health care system now how many look forward and look at new ways of doing things to reduce the use of coercion, and where you've also seen good results by not using coercion, but using other methods. So I look forward and hope that we will now get a good grip on this. I am convinced that the Health Minister and also the Health Regions will follow up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e812	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. Case No. 5 and 6 are interpellations, and the President will propose, by reference to Section 79 of the Rules of Procedure, to depart from the general procedure for interpelling debates by discussing them together. The two interpellations are largely related to the same theme. – No one has asked for the floor and it is deemed to have been adopted. The President will propose that speaking time be allocated as follows: First, the interpellants and the two members of the Government receive one post each of up to 10 minutes, followed by a new post of up to 3 minutes each. Then open for up to 15 speakers with a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each. Finally, the inter-pellants and the two members of the Government are given one post each of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will further refer to the inter-pelling texts on agenda No. 50, and will also deviate from common practice by the President not going to read out the two interpellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e851	Norway has an open economy. We encourage young people to go out and take either the whole or part of their education abroad. Internationalisation contributes to enriching the professional environments, increasing quality and increasing innovation. We get new citizens who want to use their skills and actively contribute to society. They can either be family members of people who have received a job in Norway, or refugees. For many years we have lacked health professionals. Health professionals with foreign education represent a significant proportion of those applying for and receiving Norwegian authorisation. They represent valuable labour and competence in Norwegian health and care services. The proportion of foreign superiors has increased sharply and currently represents 21,3 pst. by the superiors in Norwegian hospitals. 39 pst. of the specialist medical authorisations for the period 1997 to 2014 were EU/EEA conversions. Of the 450 psychologists who received authorisation in 2015, only 276 were trained in Norway. 103 were educated in Denmark, 3l in Sweden and 12 in Hungary. The rest was scattered across very many different countries. More than half of the pharmacists who received authorization last year had education from other countries. In spring 2015 processed Stortinget Prop. 99 L for 2014-2015, Changes in the Health Personnel Act etc. [[conditions for authorisation]] We thought that we had now put in place a good framework for a more predictable, effective and transparent system for the recognition of health education, which also offered relevant additional training, while taking into account the overall need for capacity for practice and guidance in Norwegian health education. But through the media and direct contact, we get insight into a reality where many individuals unfortunately meet what can be called Kafka-like systems. They experience great uncertainty and that their lives are being put on hold. In the fall, we got to know all the young Norwegian students with masters from the University of ELTE in Hungary, who have been admitted to psychology in Norway since 2003. But then, without notice, 28 newly educated students last year were denied a licence to qualify as a clinical psychologist. The Health Directorate had changed its practice. Students are still waiting for concrete information on what is needed to get the education approved. Before Christmas 2016, the Health Directorate clarified that they do not have a solution to how the former psychologists who have gone to ELTE and started in a guided job with a licence are to be granted an authorisation. The Health Directorate says they are working on finding a solution to the matter. A former Norwegian psychology student at the University of ELTE, Hungary, has applied to ESA for the new practice of the Health Directorate. The European Monitoring Authority has addressed to the Norwegian authorities questions as to why they refuse to grant an ELTE work licence to former psychologists in Norway. The complainant considers Norway to be in breach of Article 13 of the Professional Qualifications Directive. The ESA indicates in its letter that a solution with a qualification period or a test is common if the training is more than one year shorter than the one with which it is compared in an EEA country. Norway has the deadline for replying to 1 March. The students who have complained about the refusal of a licence have been informed that they will also receive a reply in March. It is important to clarify that we are not going to four on quality requirements to obtain authorisation to practice in Norway. However, young people taking foreign education are entitled to a certain predictability. It is unacceptable that hundreds of Norwegian youths are being tricked. They are in a situation where they have wasted valuable years and money on something they cannot spend in Norway. On the other hand, the reality is that we need more psychologists. If it appears that there are considerable differences between Norwegian and Hungarian education, it should be possible to create supplementary training schemes for those who have taken several years of training in Hungary and to inform those who have recently started that the training will not qualify as a clinical psychologist in Norway. We also know that Norwegian students have good payability and are therefore considered attractive to many educational institutions abroad and actually also to private schools in Norway. Effective information systems should therefore be designed to enable students to ask critical questions about how training places place themselves on the market. We've had cases with nurses who have been educated in Australia in the past. It was solved for most people by organising additional education at the University of Oslo and Akershus. Then we record that many people take health education in several countries. The number of medical students abroad is increasing. What quality assurance do we have to assess foreign education? Is it the training places or the professionals involved? How do you safeguard professionalism and not professional protectionism? Hungarian education has been licensed for more than 13 years. What systems do we have to follow up approvals, and what procedures do we have when Norwegian professional plans are revised? How do we ensure that all Norwegian students taking health training abroad are informed? We have an overview of those who have loans in the Loan Fund. How do we organise to offer relevant additional competences leading to authorisation? Another matter that has been of great interest to me lately is the case of a young, Syrian dentist who has been acting for three years and three months after all the guidance he has received, in order to be able to practice as a dentist in Norway and contribute to our society. He has five years of university education and three years of practice from his home country. The Health Directorate made a mistake in the first rejection, so that he was not assessed as a qualified applicant for the Qualification Programme. The University of Bergen has received national funding to develop a qualification programme for dental practitioners with training outside the EU/EEA region. The course of a year and a half now started in January. The problem from the Health Directorate was corrected in January. I tried to help him re-evaluate the application. The course has room for ten candidates, there were two vacancies, and there are still two vacancies. The university rejected it just before the weekend and justified it with pure formalism of non-discrimination. I think it should be part of the university's social responsibility to actively contribute to the rapid integration of refugees. Do Ministers believe that the University of Bergen's bureaucratic attitude and inability to be solution oriented is a representative expression of the government's integration policy and the rational use of Community resources? It turns out that Sweden has developed more efficient systems, despite having accepted far more refugees than we have. So maybe we can learn a little bit from Sweden. Two of the studymates of the Syrian dentist ended up in Sweden. One has received authorisation, and the other – I have to make it clear that the two came to Sweden after he came to Norway – has practice with a Swedish dentist and has six months left of the Swedish qualification programme. With Swedish authorisation, they can also practice in Norway. Bergen’s Official Journal, which has written about the Syrian dentist, has contacted the two in Sweden, who described the refugee as having landed in Norway, as one of the most powerful on the hill. The question is: what will governments do to give Norway a more appropriate health education system from other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e883	I agree with the representative Grung that health professionals with education and work experience from other parts of the world are positive for our professional environments. They can give us new perspectives, and it can help improve Norwegian health and care services. I also agree with the importance of having good systems to assess applications for authorisation. For the sake of order, I would like to point out that my answer naturally concerns authorisation schemes for health professionals. Patient safety is also an important issue for the government. We need to be sure that health professionals working in Norway have the skills expected and needed for the different groups. The aim of the authorisation schemes for healthcare professionals in Norway is to ensure the safety of the patient, to contribute to the quality of healthcare and to contribute to the confidence of the public in both services and health professionals. We want to create the patient's healthcare. And we know that quality and patient safety are important to achieve this goal. Further development of our healthcare, with the patient as an active participant, demands that the public have confidence in healthcare and health professionals. There are several ways to go to get Norwegian authorisation. Not only applicants with Norwegian education but also applicants with training from other EU/EEA countries and training from outside Europe can apply for and obtain authorisation. However, all education — both Norwegian and foreign — needs to be evaluated and approved in accordance with the existing legislation. For applicants who are educated in an EU/EEA country, specific EU rules apply. A prerequisite for entitlement to recognition under these rules is that the training is recognised in the country of education. Some professions are so-called harmonised. This means that one who is trained as a doctor, a dentist, a nurse, a midwife or a pharmacist from an EU/EEA country is entitled to an authorisation based on completion of education. For other health professionals, however, the duration, content and level of the courses are compared to the training in Norway. For applicants educated outside the EU/EEA, authorisation is also based on a comparison with the corresponding Norwegian education. Applicants must have completed a health education which is equivalent to the corresponding Norwegian education or which, together with additional training or professional experience, has given the applicant the necessary skill. This means that the applicant may need to qualify for further authorisation, for example: by taking more education. For some, it may be possible to apply for admission to a Norwegian university and then apply for exemption from certain subjects already covered by foreign education. It is the Directorate for Health that is responsible for assessing applications for authorisation. The timing of comparison between education and training is the same as the time when authorisation is sought after completion of education. The basis for the comparison is inter alia: Norwegian education frameworks and curricula. Verification is ensured by the written and reasoned nature of all decisions and by the possibility for the applicant to appeal against the decision of the authorisation authority. Because education varies, not only between different countries but also between universities and not least over time, the Health Directorate does not grant recognition until the education is completed. According to the Health Directorate, each application receives a specific and individual treatment based on the documentation attached to it by the applicant. There are many aspects that play and that can lead to different assessments and outcomes. Occasionally, applicants from the same study site may have studied at different times and the training may have changed. Some may, for example: have a bachelor's degree from one university and a master's degree from another. In such cases, two applicants with diplomas from the same place of training may have differences in their training. In addition, applicants may have chosen different professional courses, some may have additional training and/or practice, and such conditions may contribute to some different outcome of an application for authorisation. It is true that Sweden and Norway have different laws and have adopted different schemes for the authorisation of health professionals with foreign education. I cannot comment in detail on whether Sweden approves education that is not approved in Norway. One thing that was mentioned in the media last fall, to which the representative Grung refers, is applicants who have studied psychology at a university in Hungary. These applicants have not received a licence or authorisation as a psychologist because the training does not contain sufficient clinical practice and therefore does not grant recognition as a clinical psychologist in Hungary. A better system for the authorisation of healthcare professionals, including the accelerated processing of applications, is constantly being developed. At the same time, we should not underestimate that this is a very demanding area. Several measures have been taken to improve the scheme. The electronic application procedure for applications for authorisation and licence has been used. The digitised application process helps to ensure that contacts with applicants and the processing of applications for authorisation, licence and specialist approval are more effective and with the best possible quality. From January 2016, the State Agency for the Authorisation of Health Care Professionals was integrated into the Directorate for Health. The inclusion shall contribute to the more comprehensive supervision of the authorisation and authorisation of healthcare professionals. The authorisation process is now better seen in the context of personnel planning, specialist training, specialist recognition and healthcare competence needs. The procedure shall ensure that applicants for authorisation, licensing and specialisation approval have the necessary qualifications and that their applications are dealt with in accordance with the applicable legislation. A European Professional Card for nurses, pharmacists and physiotherapists is also being used. The electronic certificate will confirm the applicant’s professional qualifications and is intended to simplify the work on documentation for EEA graduates applying for authorisation. In the case of supplementary education, provision has been made. However, this is a challenging area because of very different conditions in different countries. An offer of complementary training has been developed for nurses with nursing training from their home country, particularly for migrants with a refugee background. The offer concerns those who have received a refusal of authorisation because of minor shortcomings in the training. They are offered complementary education, including practice, and will then be able to apply to the Health Directorate to move on to the second stage of the authorisation process. The option for these would have been to resume the full training of nurses in Norway. Since 1999, the University of Bergen has organised a qualification programme for dental practitioners with training from outside the EU/EEA region. The programme was established as an integration measure for foreign dental practitioners residing in Norway. The qualification programme aims to compare odontological competence gained outside the EU/EEA with Norwegian integrated masters in odontology. The aim is that they should be able to obtain Norwegian dental authorisation. The University of Oslo and Akershus also offer a study on themes in which many nurses with education from outside the EU/EEA area are lacking. The study was developed in cooperation between the health and education sectors. I would also like to mention briefly that the Health Directorate is working on information measures aimed at universities and students. They cooperate with actors such as the Loan Fund, NOKUT and ANSA on good and early information for those who assess or choose to study abroad. Any person intending to study in the EU/EEA health profession requiring authorisation in Norway is recommended to examine whether the training grants authorisation in the corresponding profession in the country of education before starting the study. Several measures have been put in place in recent years to improve the system for the authorisation of healthcare professionals. It is important that this work continues. Health professionals with training from other countries shall have their applications for authorisation properly and fairly processed, but also in a way that contributes to patient safety. That is the most important consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e929	I have a basic belief that all people want to contribute to the community they belong to. They want to work, earn money, live independent lives, support themselves, use their abilities, experience mastery and succeed with what they can. It's also true that even though many people believe that we're rich in Norway because we have oil, gas and money in the bank, the most important economic resource we have is the people who live here with their skills, their knowledge and the ability that they give to solve problems and create values. The people who live in our country are our most important resource. That is why we are so committed to knowledge, education, competence and research. At the same time: We live in a time when people travel, move and immigrate. Nordics, like many others, live, work and study in another country. We're just encouraging it, to go out in college, because we want more internationalization. Therefore, many students take part of the study abroad. In addition, people come to Norway as refugees from something, but who often had not planned a life in a country other than their home country. Their educational background is local and national, and not rarely difficult to document because of war and conflict. Some people also come to look for work because we have job vacancies in some industries. Very many of these people with a foreign background can do something, and they want to use the knowledge and competence they have. In addition, it is very beneficial for society to get them to work as quickly as possible. But they are facing a system that is difficult – too difficult. So how is this system? I choose to quote the Productivity Commission, which the government itself reduced, and which is my impression that the government often listens to: ‘The system of approval and authorisation may also be difficult to deal with, in particular for immigrants, but also for students taking training outside the EEA territory. As of now, there are 18 different offices responsible for handling authorisation applications. There is not a common Internet portal or a place where you can access it, but each one has to look for the right place. In addition, the various offices are subject to 12 different departments, which can create major coordination challenges. There appears to be a slightly different enforcement of the authorisation legislation between offices, where, in particular, the health professionals’ approval office is later to be stricter than in our neighbouring country.’ Both the Productivity Commission and the NOCUT are clear that the authorisation schemes appear to be inflexible. It is difficult for those who have training from abroad to complete an education with what they need to get it approved. This helps to prevent more people from using the formal competence they have from abroad. The Government has decided to go through the system of recognition of foreign education — the same as the Productivity Commission recommended and as the NOKUT supports. In addition, it is worth mentioning that an external report was made in 2009 on behalf of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, which wrote the following on recognition of foreign competence, that it: ‘Appears to be fragmented, unbridled and there appears to be a lack of an overall national approach to the field of approval’.» The time to do something is really overmature. 26 years have passed since the recognition schemes for foreign competence were subject to a major review. Since then, a lot has happened both in the labour market, in the education system and in the number of people moving to and from Norway. We simply have different needs today than at the time. Better provision is also needed to enable people to complete their education. It is important for those who lack practice or some subject in order to be certified to work in a regulated profession in Norway. Today, it is difficult to carry out systematic complementary education. Some students also take their entire education abroad. It saves Norway money and ensures that we have the necessary access to doctors, psychologists and chiropractors, for example. We've recently had a few examples of unfortunate cases in which approval has suddenly been withdrawn, and the students are going to be sitting with black teats. We can't have that when the goal is to get more students to take education abroad. I expect the government on a general basis to ensure predictability for all Norwegian students abroad and that they can use their education in Norway. The last two issues have led to a lot of anxiety. But then the education can change, of course, after the students have gone out. It may have implications for approval, but it is very important to have a transitional regime in place, cf. The Hungarian case, which has been mentioned earlier by the representative Grung and the Council of State Höie. So how is the government going to solve this? I also see challenges in the fact that responsibility for this is spread to so many departments. For this reason alone, it is difficult to find the will or ability to coordinate the transitional arrangements. That's why we've asked two government councils to come here today. As far as this is concerned with psychologists, I have understood that it is the four universities that train psychologists in Norway, who are now on a mission from the Health Directorate to enter and recognise Hungarian education. Then I'd like to ask myself, "Why is that?" Shouldn't non-Norwegian environments assess this, which is more unhilded? That's what you usually do when you check quality in academia – you don't check it yourself, you let other countries assess your competence. We also have an additional challenge after the budget decisions before Christmas, where NOKUT got 10 million. kr i k cut. At the same time, the number of cases at NOKUT is increasing sharply, especially from refugees with a background from Syria. Documented education is important. The agreement on integration that was made here in Stortinget, I would like to remind you, and it was also launched an academic hard work how many places of study were set up to receive complementary education, but it requires the state to provide funding for approval, because we want to get people to work. What's the consequence? In fact, the study places for just completing education will be empty. University of Oslo and Akershus have notified it. So why does this get cut? The reason is that the number of asylum arrivals is expected to decline in 2017. That reason is a little hollow, and it's because it takes time for the refugees to start looking for a job or higher education. That's not the first thing they do when they come in and apply for asylum – it takes time. Many of those who came in 2015 are now applying. We thus risk putting people on hold. This is unnecessary because it leads to them coming to work later – later in education, later in work. At the University of Oslo and Akershus, they have made some conservative calculations based on figures from Sweden. If it is that 175 people with a background as a refugee establish themselves in the labour market one month earlier, the social savings will be about 10 million. kr. And that's what NOKUT got for 2017. The NOKUT cut is therefore a very expensive savings. Investment in competence pays off. The Brochmann II Committee recently presented a report in which they write quite clearly that immigrants with education we are using give Norway more socio-economic benefits. Norway needs skilled labour, not least in health and electrical professions, and typical groups require authorisation and authorisation. That's why this work is very important, because it becomes a bottleneck. But, of course, we don't have four requirements – we need them to protect the security of our society. Only people who are truly qualified have to pursue a profession that requires approval or authorisation, but at the same time we have to make sure that people get used what they can. My claim is that we're not yet in the goal of exactly this. We have an unpredictable system of long and heavy processes and little predictability, and it makes it difficult for many of these people. Too many end up in jobs for which they are overqualified. This applies both to higher education and to professional qualifications. This problem is going to increase. The number of persons with foreign competence in society is increasing. At the beginning of 2015, there were 13 pst. by the population with a migrant background, which is quite numerous. In addition, there will be further increases in the coming years. Then it is important to make good use of their competences. I therefore call for a strategy with a review and a streamlined form of the approval schemes. It will be very important and absolutely necessary to have it done. When's it coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e986	I want to start by saying a thousand thanks to the representatives of Grung and Aasen for what is a very important inspiration theme. I can't agree with everything that's said, of course, but very much of the reality description I agree, also that this is an area where we have a lot left to do. But when the representative of the Aasen calls for a strategy, I still – as I am going to use the rest of the post on – argue that the government is not there now that we need a strategy; we are there that we have to implement, and are in the process of implementing, the measures we have already launched. I'll say a little bit more about that. It is a very relevant question how people who have training abroad are admitted to their education in Norway. It is important that they can use their competences into Norwegian employment. The representative of Aasen sees challenges with today's system and asks if simplifications are possible for users, for example. for several students to take all or part of their education abroad. They then contribute to the Norwegian society with a competence and cultural understanding Norway needs. In addition, we have had an immigration and a flow of refugees that both Norway and Europe have felt. It also helps to put the recognition systems under pressure, as they want to assess their education. As I said, I am pleased with this question – or these interpellations, I guess I have to say – because since we got into the government, we've been working specifically to improve and simplify the authorisation systems, and we've been doing it for three years. In Norway, there are several recognition schemes, depending on the level of education, the need for individuals and the labour market. For the sake of order, I would just like to stress that in Norway there is no general requirement for a foreign education to be approved in order to obtain permission to work. However, for a group of about 170 regulated professions, the recognition or authorisation of professional qualifications is required in order to be able to exercise the profession in Norway. This applies, for example: health professionals, teachers and lift fitters. In the case of recognition of foreign education, it is necessary to distinguish between general recognition schemes and recognition for professional activities in regulated professions, where authorisation is required for the pursuit of a profession. NOKUT is responsible for the general recognition of higher foreign education. This responsibility has been theirs since 2003, when they received it from the then Minister of Education Kristin Clement. In my time as a knowledge minister, I have established two new national authorisation schemes. In 2016, NOKUT was given responsibility for establishing a system for the recognition of foreign vocational and vocational education at secondary level, and in 2017 they also received responsibility for a system for the recognition of foreign vocational education. Among other things, we received: the involvement of the social partners in the strong desire to do so. General recognition means that NOCUT assesses foreign education towards the Norwegian education system, verifies papers, etc. and issue evidence of the level and duration of the training and, where appropriate, of its degree. However, it is still the schools themselves that are responsible for professional recognition, both for further study and assessment of the professional content of education – a point that the representative of Aasen problemed. In fact, general recognition schemes at national level for vocational and vocational education and training have not existed before. This is in itself a significant simplification for applicants, who thus have one national body to address. It was high time we had a successful recognition system at all levels of education in Norway. Thus, we have gathered all the general recognition of foreign education in one competence environment. In addition to being responsible for authorisation schemes, NOCUT also has a national responsibility for information on all types of authorisations, including those in regulated professions, including the sector for which State Council Höie is responsible. This applies both to the EU Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications in the EU/EEA area and to training from around the world. Anyone who wants to have their foreign education assessed may apply to NOKUT. NOCUT will either assess the education itself or inform the appropriate body for further treatment. This last one is important. As a newly-accompanied refugee/migrant to Norway, it may be difficult to be briefed in the recognition system, and therefore NOW has a national guidance role to assess which body should assess the competence involved. NOCUT is also responsible for the so-called UVD scheme, a scheme for applicants who, because of the situation they are in, cannot verify their education. This is an important addition to our general authorisation schemes, which have otherwise received international attention. Several countries consider introducing similar schemes. Once I'm on the international track, I want to inform you that I've taken the initiative to map and review the authorisation systems that exist in the Nordic countries and autonomous areas, and an analysis of the findings. Norway has the presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers this year, so I am pleased to take the initiative to discuss how we can further develop and improve our approval systems, including: by learning from each other's experiences. Then comes what is affected by the Grungs Interpellation, namely the regulated professions. Here, too, the Ministry of Knowledge has a role even though we do not directly own the bodies that approve. We have commissioned Altinn to create a common electronic application portal. It is developed as a common user portal, regardless of the profession for which authorisation is sought, precisely to let go of what can easily appear as a myriad of different portals and pages. The proceedings themselves shall remain with the underlying agency, which has both professional responsibility and competence, but may be communicated through the portal. There will be significant simplification and the portal will be operational by the end of February. In order to simplify the system, I have also asked that it be possible for applicants without a personal number or ID number to search through the portal. In parallel, NOCUT has been entrusted with the task of gathering uniform information in both Norwegian and English on all regulated professions and the application process related to each profession. This information shall also be made visible on that portal. This was also mentioned and was an important part of the big message from outside to new chance, the so-called exclusion message. Several of the measures contained in the Communication are precisely aimed at facilitating the use of more people’s foreign competences in the world of work. As a follow-up to the Storing Communication, which received broad political support, NOKUT has held a course for Nav and other first-line services in the municipalities to provide them with up-to-date information on the system of recognition of foreign education. An e-learning platform is also established for this type of course. The representative of Aasen also asks — quite correctly — whether it is appropriate to allow persons with foreign education to complete their education if it is inadequate to pursue a profession. That's a good and important question. As the representative Grung mentioned, schemes were set up in the wake of the refugee flow, i.e. funds, to provide nurses, teachers, engineers and technologists who needed to supplement their training, a complementary training offer in Norway. The idea is that this should be expanded. There are some selected universities and colleges that facilitate today. In addition, higher education institutions also have a general responsibility under the Law on Higher Education to assess foreign education for inclusion in further studies. I believe that that assessment is – in line with other Norwegian education from Norwegian institutions – the university and higher education institutions that have to do. However, I will be honest and admit that it is a challenge that many people experience the Norwegian system of approval as heavy-duty and unnecessary strict. This may also lead to the absence of valuable competences in Norway. At the same time, there is a balance, for employers and society in general must also rely on the approvals given. Therefore, it is important that simplifications that we are working with – and we also need to do more – do not go at the expense of the quality of the documentation itself. Furthermore, I am also concerned that we should not arrange for many people who strictly do not need it to apply for approval. It is only in the context of the practice of a profession which is regulated that an authorisation is required. Refugees with a degree in e.g. social sciences or mathematics, with engineering training, or with experience/training as a bus driver or hairdresser, may also apply directly to the employer without going into the NOCUT or education system. We can't create a system that deprives them of the ability to evaluate their competence, to say it that way, but it's not mandatory. It will lead to a strong red tape if it is perceived or made mandatory. It is worth mentioning that NOKUT also has a turbo scheme for employers in higher education, where within five working days they can draw up a short assessment describing whether education is recognised in the country of education and the degree to which the training corresponds to education in the Norwegian system. Finally, let me also mention that we intend to follow up the proposal of the non-governmental communication to set up a cross-ministerial group to look at opportunities for further simplification of this system and work. That's why I'm saying we don't need a strategy now. We simply have to start the work that is now in progress, through close dialogue with my colleagues in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1018	I would like to thank my interpellant, Marianne Aasen, and also thank you for what has been said in particular by the last Council of State now, about what we experience as a real willingness to tackle to reduce the time it takes to give individuals greater predictability. It's about individuals who have chosen to train as professionals that they want to practice. I am thinking in particular of the Norwegians who are applying for the rest of the world. For those who have a refugee chain in addition to an education, it is part of normalized life to feel that they too can contribute by using their profession. Three and a half years is incredibly long to wait, no matter who it is, but especially when one has come to a whole new country, where one does not always understand everything. State Council Höie believed that the students from Hungary had received a good, transparent and professional description of what they were missing. That's not the case yet. They've been told that they're still waiting, but it could be that it's happening in parallel with the work going on, that the four universities that train psychologists will look at the content of the education that's in Hungary today, versus earlier. But then it is worrying when so many — well over 200 — who have already taken education in Hungary have been approved, have had practices in Norway and have thus received authorisation. Have we not had quality assurance when they passed, why should there be such a difference between those who are currently taking education? As for the Syrian refugee, I fully agree that we need better coordination. What I think Sweden is better in is closer follow-up as soon as the refugees arrive, so that they both get relevant practice – like the Syrian dentists in Sweden along with corresponding Swedish dentists – learn the language and also get feedback on their skills in relation to the requirements in Sweden, which could probably have been done in the same way here in Norway. But the answer that Bergen's magazine received when they asked the Health Directorate why he lacked the one sentence, which would make him qualified for admission to the qualification program, was that they knew that there was rejuvenation in Bergen – therefore they should not bring up new students. That's probably why he couldn't get qualified and get that sentence. Finally, in my speech, I asked: What are the state councils' expectations regarding the role of universities in getting more of the refugees through, so that they get relevant practice and education?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1029	It's an important theme the interpellanters are addressing. It must not be left as an impression that the interpellants are not satisfied with today's system, and that I and my fellow Councillor are satisfied. That's not the situation. At that time it would not have been necessary to make the quite extensive changes that have now been made. However, it is challenging to comment and comment on some issues, because – as I said in my introduction – the background to individual decisions is often very complicated, and the comparison made in the media in the case of individual cases is not necessarily comparable, simply because, for example, it is not. changes in en-route training. It is true that some people take part of the studies at other places of education, and even if one eventually comes from the same place of study, this does not mean that the entire course of study has been conducted at the same place of study. It is an important bottom plan that the education that provides authorisation is consistent with the Norwegians. I would like to clarify that the educational qualification is the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge, but the authorisation is subject to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. To the situation in the case of Hungary: there is a situation in which similar training does not grant authorisation in Hungary, and similar training does not give authorisation in Norway. We also have master’s courses in psychology in Norway that do not give authorization to work as a psychologist — with the clinically oriented education and practice that provides the kind of competence. It is also important to see that there is different content in these courses. So it's that in this system it can be done wrong. This does not mean that the error that is being made will be more correct if it is repeated further, but it is also the type of relationship that the directorate is currently working on. There was a need to make major changes. It was also one of the reasons why the State's authorisation office is now under the Directorate for Health, to work on contributing to better ICT solutions, electronic processing, a wider environment of competence and better quality assurance of the decisions taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1044	Thank you very much to Mr Grung and the two Councils that are putting forward here today for having a good and thorough debate on this issue. I am of the opinion that this is something we must take seriously. This is a bottleneck of the big ones in our society. I want to comment on the short posts. The first concerns health authorisation. It's very easy to bury in detail. We can do that with examples and in the know and the wide. I want a bigger perspective on this. Is that the way we're doing it now, which is the right one? Shouldn't we think quite new? Should we not take it seriously as the productivity commission, to reuse it again, says that there are too many offices doing this – 18 in 12 departments? Maybe we'll do it completely differently and put it one place? Is it now such – the study barometer came last week – that all Norwegian education is so excellent? That's not it. Nor in health. In addition, we know – as they write – that in particular, the health professionals’ approval office will later know that it is much more stringent than in other countries. Then it is clear that we have a challenge in Norway, which may even be special, and which, in my opinion, we should take a larger grip on. The other applies to NOKUT and cut to 10 million. kr, which was not included in any of the articles of the Council of State. They are the ones who — and those who listened carefully to them — are going to do a lot of these tasks. They've got 10 million. kr less, for which they actually received in the budget last year, for 2016, in order to solve precisely this with refugees. The reason for this is a hole. I repeat that I believe that it is hollow, when it is right now these refugees need to be admitted to their education. Once we have worked on this interpellation debate, we have seen dissatisfaction with the employees, the employers, the ANSA – among all the people we have talked to about these things. Something also believes that important things need to be done about this. A blog post was written about this yesterday. This is a matter that needs to be raised and become something other than a working group at the State Secretary level. In my opinion, we need a case for Stortinget about this, where one chisels out a course, which shows that we take this much more seriously, simply because the need to do something about it is going to increase. There are going to be several Norwegian students going abroad. There's going to be more, as they meet, maybe marry and settle with in Norway, with education. There's going to be more refugees. There are going to be more people coming to Norway to work, with other education, and then we have to take this particular challenge much more seriously – because we have a little old-fashioned system that belongs in the past and not in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1055	If we agree – and we are then – that today's system has not worked well enough for a long time, and also agree that something needs to be done, it is in every context that we criticise the government for not doing enough or not being able to do everything at the same time, but it is important to say that this is an area that we from the Ministry of Knowledge and the Government have also prioritised. It doesn't mean that all the problems have gone away in these three and a half years, but there have been important things. I would first like to say two words about NOKUT. It's important to stress that it was 10 million. kr as a one-off grant to NOKUT, not a permanent strengthening of the framework, and then it is always more popular to get 10 million. This was the money contained in the draft budget, which then fell into the budget negotiations. But something has also received permanent strengthening of its budgets. For example, they've got about $25 million. kr to follow-up on the precise recognition of foreign vocational training, which has been important, and they have received 25 million. kr for digital processing – which is a permanent reinforcement. It's not hard to understand that NOKUT would have 10 million either. kr extra as a one-off grant than not to have it, but it is nevertheless such that there has been permanent strengthening in their area. The common denominator in what I describe as the government has done is probably this very user perspective. For example: collecting it into a common portal and strengthening the guidance role of NOCUT further is important for the user coming to Norway and will be briefed in this system. Then Marianne Aasen invites you to a very interesting and touching debate that really touches on one of the basic ways in which we have organized the Norwegian government, namely sector responsibility. I believe that although sectoral responsibility may have its challenges, it is essentially an advantage to maintain the idea that each department owns the whole of its area of responsibility, because if the Ministry of Health had not had a responsibility for the recognition of health education from abroad, it is very difficult to imagine that it should have a good and close connection with the Norwegian education system, and that it should also build good enough environments for it. Although this is an interesting discussion, our starting point is good, I think, by keeping sector responsibility. Finally, what I think must be our ambition is that we should have a system that is as flexible as possible. One thing, then, is for all those who do not need to have their education approved, but for those who need the approval of the education, we need a NOKUT that has enough capacity to process applications quickly, and then the university and college institutions – for those who have to do so, I disagree with Marianne Aasen that it should be transferred to some external expert body – have the opportunity to provide supplementary education. That's what we're doing. I wish that work had been started before 2015, but now it is at least going on, and the idea is that it should be further developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1068	Thanks to the representative Grung for taking up the authorisation of foreign health workers. When I discuss this matter, which is very interesting to listen to, of course I have the health-care glasses on. This area has no quick fix. I guess that's what history has shown us. It's an area that ANSA has been very busy about. As new health care representatives, we immediately met nurses who had not received recognition of education from Australia, doctors who were educated in EU countries, and now we meet psychologists who have not received authorisation for education from Hungary – who prove to be right. I first want to say that it is enriching to bring in people who are educated, whether they are Norwegians who have taken training abroad, or there are foreigners who come to Norway. It's enriching for the Norwegian system, for both professional development and for research, and we really should have had a lot more of it. I myself have accepted my education abroad, when I worked there. I have also received a degree from abroad in Norway, and I can well say that it was met with a little greater scepticism, but thanks to a vigorous head of department, it went well. It might say something about the fact that we have a little ingrained scepticism and a very protectionism about our educations in Norway, and that the current loop may have been too crowded in some cases. We have a long experience of physiotherapists and doctors being trained in EEA countries, so the work with authorisation does not apply to them, but it is primarily for those trained outside EEA countries. It hasn't been high enough on the political agenda, and I think that maybe we all have to take over here. This is not an area that you can clean up in three years, it takes longer. I am very pleased that Höie has taken control of the field, and that the Health Directorate is now in charge, after a new order. I think the Minister's thorough review here shows how seriously the department takes this. At least what I'm very happy about is that we now have an electronic search process, which makes it much easier for the applicant to keep track, and not least that the authorization offices get easier access to paperwork. But there are still stories that papers get lost in the system, and that things take time. What is important in this is that we have a complete and systematic retention of authorisation and approval, and we have started that work now. It is good that we have also started complementary education for those who may lack some elements. There should be more of it. This applies in particular to nurses. It seemed for a while that nurses who had been educated abroad had to take the whole hospital care back in Norway. It's both wasted time, resources, and money. It can't be like that. But at least now we've started a system for that. It is also incredibly important that we have information measures, and that the Health Directorate is now working on it. They work both with NOKUT, with the Loan Fund and with ANSA, so that Norwegian students who leave are aware of the professional groups for which authorisation is granted in Norway and what is needed to obtain this authorisation. It's important that the individual who's going out gets this information, but also that the information given on the other side is correct, that it's correct, and that may not always have been the case. I would like to say that authorisation should be a quality stamp, but we cannot renovate on quality. Quality is also about trust in health services. Of course, we want to make progress and flexibility in the treatment of applicants, but we also have to expect that it will take some time when education is very different. We are very pleased with the work that Höie has started from her department, and hope for good results in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1091	It's very good that these issues come up, and these are good interpellations, but when you listen to the representative Aasen, it almost sounds like everything's been going on for the last three years. I think we all agree that these are challenges that have been there for a long time, and that's why it's important to do something about it. Then I would also like to say that it is good to have good quality assurance procedures in place to approve perhaps special health education in Norway, because it is about ensuring the safety, safety and quality of patients and all those who need health care are well cared for. However, it is also important to look at opportunities to simplify procedures and tasks in the application process, but also to ensure the quality of the documentation itself. As the Minister of Health also pointed out, simplification of the processes is under way. I'm very happy about that, and I realize that that's what's important here, too, that you get in place simplifications to be able to get answers faster and to know more quickly what you need to seal the gaps you might have in education. Among other things, the Public Health Administration Office is now integrated into the Health Directorate. The inclusion shall contribute to the more comprehensive supervision of the authorisation and authorisation of healthcare professionals. I would also like to point out what the Minister of Knowledge said earlier here today that he now wants to set up a cross-ministerial working group to go through the various authorisation schemes and that he has taken the initiative in Nordic cooperation. That's very good. As many here know, caring for the elderly is one of my children. Every week I get feedback and stories from relatives who have their love in hospitals, hospitals or at home with the help of home services. One of the challenges that persists is the inability to understand and speak Norwegian with several of those who have a foreign language. It is important to me that we do something about it too, because no education/authorisation is good enough if you cannot communicate in a good way with the one you are going to help. It is important that relatives and patients understand what is being said, and it is not possible to exercise good and safe enough nursing care if the language is not in place. In the years to come, the health care service in Norway will need more nurses and health professionals, and we will depend on labour immigration to fill all the jobs — if we do not believe that every third youth will study health professionals and start working in the health sector. This challenge has been taken seriously by the government through the Competence Plan 2020. It is one of the main efforts to ensure good recruitment and stable staffing of health and social professionals. In several municipalities and especially inland areas, we see that there has already been a shortage of health professionals, and we have had to enter into an agreement with the manning company in order to offer a quality-secured health and care service. There is some of the challenge, of course, that there are self-employed nurses from other countries, and then it's good to know that when they're coming here, they also have to go about the Health Directorate in order to get the approval of education and language skills. We know that there is a great need for increased language understanding and skills of several employees and future employees in the health and care sector. Then it is good to know that these signals have been taken seriously by the government through the strengthening and extension of the introduction programme and training in Norwegian and social knowledge, as well as the basic competences of the labour force and basic skills in volunteering. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1109	Internationalisation of education, research and employment has many positive aspects both for the individual student, for the employee and for institutions and enterprises that gain access to skills and capacity that are not available on the domestic labour market. Although there are many positive aspects to the exchange of labour between countries, one should not underestimate that it poses challenges. Therefore, it is important for the Central Party that we are tidy in the debate when we discuss these questions. A fundamental element is the need for the recognition of foreign competence and education in a good way, where Norwegian standards are guaranteed, and for the absence of employment or social dumping. Unfortunately, we see negative examples of this happening in several industries and growing challenges. For this reason, it is important that the recognition system for foreign education and qualification requirements is regulated within Norwegian legislation, which takes care of these conditions, and that we not only comply with international legislation where the main purpose is to facilitate the free flow of human beings and capital. Recruitment of foreign labour and labour market challenges are partly intertwined and part of it is a backbone of the debate when we are discussing what representatives Aasen and Grung have drawn up in their interpellations with the Councils. It is a fact that, in several industries, there is a disparity between the enterprises themselves in need of labour and top skills, and the volume of what Norwegian educational institutions provide of ready-made pupils and students, both in higher education and in vocational training. For what kind of occupation, field of activity, type of education and level of education does the labour market have a desperate need in the coming year? What kind of skilled workers, engineers and technologists are most needed? According to the 2016 NHO competence survey, a total of five out of 10 NHO companies are reported to have an undetermined competence need. The greatest is the need for vocational and vocational training. When it comes to enterprises that intend to recruit the necessary labour force, it is to increase the competence of today's adding one must look at as much as possible, followed by adding people with appropriate qualifications to the Norwegian labour market, and then recruiting foreign labour is the option that scoring the lowest, but it achieves a score of not insignificant 20 pst. This shows that the most important steps we can take to resolve the disparity between the needs of the labour market and the available skilled labour force are, above all, to increase educational capacity in Norway within a range of education and training. It must also be the first priority of the government, and I expect both the revised national budget and the state budget for 2018 to address this challenge. In Norway it is NOKUT that is the contact point and manages the approval system. Recognition of foreign education as equivalent to accredited Norwegian higher education is regulated in university and højskulelova. Correspondingly, qualification schemes for vocational training exist that NOCUT makes a professional assessment as to whether the training and qualifications of the jobseeker from his home country can be assessed as equivalent to a Norwegian letter of formal education or training. This is immeasurably important to ensure that those who work in Norway have the necessary qualifications in the profession. NOW'S work is a security for employers and for us as consumers and as a society. I ask myself a little questioning about the wording of the interpellation from the Aasen – and I quote: ‘At the same time, it is unfortunate that the limits are so high for the recognition of foreign education that taking the same education in a Norwegian system in practice becomes the only dangerous path. It is expensive and time consuming and should be avoided.’ The central party hopes that there is no desire in this appointment for a expectation that the government should harmonise qualification requirements with other countries in a way that will reduce the requirement of competence. In that case, the Senter Party will strongly warn against this. Nor can we simplify the recognition system for appropriate reasons, so that education at different levels is equalised, so that there is a pressure on Norwegian education and qualification requirements. If the capacity of NOCUT is a challenge, or if there is a need to provide additional or modular training for people recruited from abroad, who do not entirely match Norwegian requirements of competence despite having completed vocational training or higher education in the same profession, we should find solutions to this, but without leading to pressure towards reduced skills requirements and content in our secret education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1139	First, I would like to thank the inter-pellants for addressing a problem that is important, but not least relevant. There's a problem that many people experience today, and that, if we get what we want, even more people will get away with, because it's a desire from this big thing that several of the Norwegian students go out and take all or part of their education abroad. We think of it as a resource, we see it as important that people get out and get the impulses and the education that you can pick up there. At the same time, many come to Norway for different reasons, but not least because we live in a globalised world. It's not necessarily like we're just marrying one person two houses down the street. The world has become smaller, we get impulses from elsewhere, and we have to adapt that others come to us and want to contribute to society by working with what they're trained to. We could like it or not, but there's a whole bunch of education we actually don't get taken in Norway. In the health field, I can mention chiropractors, who we don't train in this country, but who we depend on travelling abroad for education, then come back to Norway and work here. We know that approx. half of all medical students must travel and take their education abroad. So this is a problem that's most topical, not least because as a big one, we've put it up to date. So there are some things we have to deal with, these are things we just can't accept go slowly, are difficult or experience as bureaucratic. We have a challenge when the NOCUT, as the important body it is, is perceived as a bottleneck – that it is a lengthy procedure, that many feel that the decisions are illogical, that someone is given authorisation, while others do not. One year they received approval for that education at that university, but the following year they do not get it even if they started while the education was still approved. These are the things that we have to look at all the time, even though we don't want to lower the quality of the approval that is given. In addition, I would like to mention one issue, and it is that Norwegian universities and colleges themselves have a very large potential to adapt their teaching so that both Norwegian and foreign students who come to Norway with a foreign education can get a supplement, a module, which allows them to get their education approved in Norway. Many people experience that they have to take a large part of what they have already taken again in Norway to get it approved, while it would have been possible to create more customized modules that would make it smaller in order to meet the requirements that were set. We have received feedback from many who had experienced it as positive if they could complete their foreign education with a module or two from a Norwegian university or a Norwegian college. When applying for a job in the business community or in the public sector, there is something to say that yes, they took most of the education abroad, but they have taken it and it at a Norwegian university or at a Norwegian college that people are actually familiar with. It will in a way be a stamp of approval on education that they can show that they have taken part in it at a Norwegian university or college — it is felt safe for those who are to be employed. I would like to thank you once again for raising this issue. I think both state councils have a lot to do for the whole way to deal with the bottlenecks and the challenges that are in this area. But we as big people, we who work with education, must strive all the way to get more internationalization in this area, because it's only positive that Norwegian students travel abroad and get impulses from there, and it's only positive that Norway can attract smart heads from abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1152	I would first of all like to thank the inter-pellants Aasen and Grung for addressing such an important topic, which is high on the agenda both in the government and for the Progress Party on the Stortinget. My post is largely directed to the interpellation of the Aasen. Finding a good solution to the recognition of foreign education will help solve a number of challenges in skills and employment policy. As Councillor Røe Isaksen said in his statement, the government has worked intently to improve and simplify the recognition systems for more than three years, in the professions in which authorisation or approval is required. The part of progress will highlight the importance of both flexible and simple approval systems and a strong quality focus. For us, it is important not to slack down on the standards and approvals in order to make it easier for those with foreign education to enter the labour market. What we need to do is to speed up the recognition of high-quality foreign education, so that Nordics and non-residents who want to get into work and contribute to value creation can quickly do so. Available and effective arrangements for the recognition of education and professional qualifications in regulated professions are important instruments for using competences acquired abroad in Norwegian working life. This is an important theme for the government, which has started a good work in this area. The Government Declaration states: ‘It is a challenge for many people who have education and competence with them from their home country to have little recognition and use of their competence.’ In order to meet this challenge, the government has established a system for the recognition of foreign vocational and vocational training. A system for the recognition of foreign vocational education is also in place. NOCUT has become a national centre of competence responsible for recognition at all levels of education. This will also benefit Nordics with training and professional qualifications from abroad. So we shouldn't be left with that it might seem that the government erased has done nothing. I also want to say that the state councils showed in their speeches that a lot is going on. Refugees and immigrants with training acquired outside the EU and the EEA territory requiring authorisation are often not admitted to their education because they lack some elements of the training. Therefore, it is worth noting that the government has set up different schemes for supplementary education. The Progress Party has expectations that the start of the work on complementary education in cooperation with universities and higher education institutions will lead to the rapid introduction of more people into their education. In Report. St. 16 for 2015–2016, From Exclusion to New Chance – concerted efforts for adult learning, which is the first of its kind in Norway, the government has developed a coordinated and comprehensive policy for adults with low education, weak basic skills or unqualified competences. The Progress Party believes that it is important to look at this matter in the context of the need for competence and value creation across the board. We believe that Norway must aim to be one of the world’s most attractive countries for enterprises to carry out research and innovation. This attractiveness is not just about strengthening the research and innovation activity of Norwegian enterprises. We should also get R & D-based foreign companies to Norway and attract foreigners with knowledge and skills to benefit our country. This is an important part of making Norway an attractive place for R & D-based activities. The fact that more and more Norwegians are taking training abroad and that qualified workers from abroad have given and will make important contributions to the development of Norwegian business makes it important to seek further simplifications in order to obtain recognition of foreign education that needs recognition. Here again I would like to refer to the Minister of Knowledge's posts, where he showed that he has taken several initiatives and has put a very bright spot on this. I believe that with continued wise and effective policies in this area, both Norwegian and foreign citizens will continue to constitute a significant resource of competence to further develop and strengthen the value creation of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1174	Thank you to all those who have contributed to a constructive and good debate. This is a theme that obviously affects many of us, and we in the opposition have the privilege of being a little bit more impatient with those who are in the position. There are three target groups: Norwegian students are taking foreign education. It is those who come here either as specialists or with family members who work in Norway and who also want to use their background. And there are refugees who are to be integrated into Norwegian society and contribute as quickly as possible. The catchwords are ‘increased predictability’ and ‘a more flexible system’. Developing complementary education, we believe, is absolutely crucial, and there should be real challenges for educational institutions to become more dynamic. Perhaps we should also make greater use of practical guidance, both for language training and for a greater understanding of the profession, in terms of content and practice in Norway. We're excited about what happens to the psychologists when you go through the education they have. It will be a test to see if we can offer complementary education to those who are close to a Norwegian education. The conclusion may be that they are qualified only for master's degree, but then they have to know it before they start their education. It might also be desirable to have a minister who dares to challenge the autonomy of universities when managing their position as petty and bureaucratic as the University of Bergen does, leaving two seats open, with one who unfortunately got wrong on his first application to qualify for admission. We also believe that it would be wise for us to have a case of our own in this field – both because it increases awareness among us of the Storting when it comes to looking at the challenges, and because it may give increased status to those who are committed to developing better and more flexible systems. I don't think it's stupid that we at least look at what Sweden has done in this area, because they obviously manage to get their new fellow citizens through the system faster than we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1199	I would like to thank you for the discussion. I also think it was wise that the discussion took place together. To Marianne Aasen's comments – and wish – that instead of discussing the details, one should discuss the big perspectives, I don't know if that's what would have led us further on these questions. I feel that we fully agree on the broad perspectives, namely that education to grant authorisation in Norway must be balanced with Norwegian education, because it takes into account the service – at least in the area of health – and the patient that is the basic one. It would surprise me if someone disagreed. Then we also agree that it should be better, that it should be more transparent and predictable to get approvals when one meets that requirement than it is today, and it works well. But the challenge in these questions is actually not in the big perspective, but very often in the rather complicated details. The improvement work in this area will therefore focus on systematically working with rather complex individual elements in this system. Another perspective, which is at least important in the field of health when talking about the big perspectives, is that in the case of health professionals, there are some issues that are important to bring with them. Many of those who have spoken today have talked about what is an advantage: that many take education abroad, that many come from abroad and want to work in Norway, but it also has some aspects that we can't talk about. For example, I think it is a challenge that we in Norway are in a situation where about half of our doctors have foreign education. I believe that this is too much in a healthcare service, because then this will not only be a positive contribution from the outside, but it will actually be a situation where about half of the doctors have training from a healthcare service other than the one they are going to work with in Norway. There are language-related challenges, which were also a little advanced in the discussion, which are crucial for patient safety and quality. I believe it is a challenge today that one in part of the service, when one employs health professionals from abroad, places too much emphasis on authorisation and does not look at the appropriateness, and language is an appropriateness that the employer has a responsibility to assess. In addition, it is important to bear in mind that we are obliged in an international code of health professionals, where Norway does not have to be a country that attracts health professionals from countries that have challenges to meet their own needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1212	Thank you for a good debate. I think we've been through a lot of relevant issues, and there's a lot of people involved, so it's fine. I want to make a few comments. One thing is that maybe more than me have a feeling that there's someone who has a little bit of a ethnocentric attitude, which is a little bit lower here, that we have a much better education than others. It was the representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen so far that she had personally experienced it, and felt that it also had to be part of the debate. At least we have to put that balloon on, because it is not the way – as I have said earlier in the debate – that at all courses in Norway we are the best in the world. There are very many good educations in very many other countries. Having said that, of course, I fully agree with everyone who has called for us to have a level of competence that is more than good enough in Norway, not least in health and care. We need competence requirements, and we need to be able to prove that. We're not going to have four on it. But that is not really what the debate is. The problem is, do we do it in a good enough way? Many people think that we don't. Can it be done better? Many people think that we can do it a better way, and then that's what we need to figure out. Are there too many people taking training abroad? Yes, State Council Höie argued a little about this in terms of medical training. I don't know if it's in common with the Minister of Knowledge that we're going to have more places to study medicine. I have not seen any suggestions about it. I don't think we should limit and have fewer who take education in medicine abroad, because then we get too few doctors. It's a dilemma, but I'm not sure if it's a big problem. The representative, Nybø, was involved in the university and higher education sectors, which also need to take greater responsibility for adapting their education modules to complement it. This applies to all education, in a broad sense. There I think a lot of institutions have something to go on, and it'll be wise and tricked anyway. I think the representative Bård Hoksrud had a very good point when it came to language, and it was also mentioned by the Council of State Höie. We might want to focus on it even more and perhaps see it as a major challenge in many professions related to people, at least. Then I would like to say again that I am calling for action when it comes to getting the approval in place. I don't think we're on target. We have a lot to do, and I think it's going to be more than just picking up a little bit here and there and getting some better application procedures here and there. I think it's also a basic idea that the international education system and the Norwegian system need to be seen more in context, and we need to build down barriers so that people get into work. Everything else is precious, both for them and for us. I am very pleased that everyone agrees with this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1227	I would like to say a thousand thanks for two good interpellations and a thousand thanks for a good debate too, which has engaged many in the Chamber. I think this is an exciting discussion because it affects both levels of policy at the same time: it is individuals – we have got some examples of this – who are being affected, and it is also about the level of the system, what we are going to do at system level. Both Health Minister Höie and I have explained a part of the government's work on this. If you're going to sum up, I don't think the good summary is that we have some kind of an ethoscentric approach angle to this. It is quite natural for a country to wish to have a type of higher education recognition system, in particular for those professions that are protected. It is also quite natural that universities and colleges in Norway should assess how other studies fit into their study portfolio. It is also true that when we have a system in which we have a sectoral responsibility and thus several different approvals based on which sector it belongs – the universities and colleges have a role, the NOCUT has a role – there is an ever greater need for coordination. I really think that's the summary I'm taking from this debate, that because we want to organize, among other things. through a sectoral principle, it is important that coordination is improved. Something has now strengthened its role. What was referred to as a state secretarial committee is not just that – if it was meant as a body that should just sit and talk. It is limited to look at how we can take the next step to see how this system can be even better for both users and for the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1236	That being the case, the debate is on the agenda. 5 and 6 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1254	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a national action plan for the work against hepatitis C, with the aim that no infection or death of hepatitis C occur in Norway by 2025, and that all patients are given access to safe and effective treatment. The draft hepatitis strategy of the Public Health Institute, dated December 2015, must form the basis for the preparation of the action plan.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1354	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1365	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1374	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1391	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to launch a public investigation into forced use in Norwegian psychiatry.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1420	In Case No: 5 and 6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-14.ana.ud462e1478	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
