ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e120	Honourable co-representatives! On 25 April 2017, former depositor Rolf Fjeldvær from Hitra died, 91 years old. He represented the Workers' Party and the South Tribute for four periods, from 1965 to 1981. During this time he was among others. a member of the Protocol Committee, the Committee on Churches and Education, and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Fisheries, while being Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Transport for the last eight years. From 1973 to 1981 he also sat in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Constitutional Affairs, and it was said that on the Stortinget he was among Trygve Brattelis most trusted. For two of the years when Bratteli was chairman of the Workers' Party's group board, Fjeldvær was Vice President. In his professional life, Fjeldvær was a teacher, a school principal, and a principal. And as an Labour Party politician, he was what was called 'of the old school'. He was referred to as a «power socialist» and saw it as an honorary term. As part of a generation heavily concerned with building the country, he saw the great importance of hydropower. He worked hard to expand the Orkla/Grana watercourse, and won. This was an important matter for the South-Trundellag Arbeiderparti, and among those who remember the World War II from the time of the fall, he is referred to as a «head» of the Trondelag on the Stortinget. Even when it came to the form of politics, the old school was in the mountains. He is referred to as being thoughtful and listening, one who was not happy in the light wits. He was concerned with the thorough political craftsmanship, the political teamwork and the loyal party building, and he was similarly little enthusiastic about what he saw as a development towards more personal focus in politics. Rolf The World's lifelong social exposure was marked by his concern for weak groups. He led the steering group that prepared the basis for what is known today at Hitra as the growth and reintroduction company Dalpro, and set up as the chairman of the eleven first years. In his spirit, this enterprise developed further, and among 220 candidates, it was named the ‘Growth of the Year’ in 2016. Mountain worlds often stressed that people who, for various reasons, have a weak starting point in life, not only have much positive to contribute to society, but that it is their full right to do just this. His commitment to the right of disadvantaged groups to work and active participation in society was also promoted when he received the King’s gold medal for his lifelong work in 2003. We bring peace to Rolf Fjeldvær's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e143	The representatives Lisbeth Berg-Hansen and Mazyar Keshvari, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For East Agder County: Lene Langemyr For the South-Trundellag County: Ferhat Güven
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e166	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sverre Myrli. – Other proposals are not available, and Sverre Myrli is unanimously elected as President-in-Office of the current sitting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e194	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the working party 30 minutes, the right 25 minutes, the progress party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the centre party 5 minutes, the left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e205	I am pleased that a large majority of the parties in the Storting will see about the same thing as the government when they look forward and look forward – the perspectives that are going to meet us. So, of course, there are differences, and you can see that from the setting, but in a lot of central areas, the Storting shares opinions about what will be important. First of all, we have the challenge of many more getting older in the coming years. It is demographic development that overtakes us, whether we like it or not – but usually we do, because the option is not very topical. This demographic change over time is perhaps our biggest challenge. That means we have to have more, not fewer, in the years to come. High employment is the cornerstone of our welfare society. At the same time, having a job that ensures income ensures personal development through life is an essential quality of life for individuals, and it is also the most equalising differences in society. Having a job and not having a job is what creates differences, what creates inequality. In addition, there is a central balance for the state between how many contribute to the income of society and how many receive from society. If too many people stay out of work, the burden will be lower. The foundation of the welfare society is perplexing. This is a challenge that can only be addressed by facilitating the widest possible access to work. The main key, as indicated in the Perspectives Communication, is an increasingly educated and more competent population that can take care of the jobs of the future and contribute to the international and global competition between the enterprises we see. We need more with higher academic skills, more with good vocational training, more who contribute to increased digitisation and the use of ever-improved technology in value creation. We also need the best possible integration into working life, not least by immigrants. International migration is unpredictable. Our country has recently found out. Good language training and good education, not least through the rapid entry into working life, are the best policies for individual immigrants and strengthen the sustainability of our welfare society, a welfare society that ensures everyone through its services, but which is, above all, a safety net for those who need it, and those who, for various reasons, fall out of the way. At the same time, we have to make sure that people not only live anymore – we do – but also that we work longer. Otherwise we don't get sustainability in this. Maybe we shouldn't work any longer every day – evolution seems to go in the opposite direction – but further beyond age, when we can. Tax and social security systems must make working and working longer more profitable. Tax systems must make it more profitable to invest, invest more and in the right things that provide jobs and contribute to growth. We have little differences and little inequality in Norway. Norway scores the highest on quality of life and life indicators. Then, later in the debate – I see from the comments – we will probably hear a lot about that the differences are increasing, and that we are moving towards something that might look more like a classed society. We have small differences in Norway. We've had it for a long time. We're going to keep having it, no matter how you measure it, no matter how you argue, economically, socially and geographically. The next generation is also completely different from a few generations ago, regardless of the parent generation and not least regardless of where you live in the country. This development will continue. It facilitates the perspectives contained in this Communication. Our country has great resources, not least through oil and its revenues, which we have wisely converted into shares in a differentiated business world-wide, a unique buffer for a country that has good opportunities even outside oil, not least in fish, minerals and high population competence. It will be central in the future to make the most of our resources, not least those that are channelled annually through the public sector. We have good public welfare systems, but we must always ensure that resources are used efficiently and that we keep productivity up, including in the public sector. The same applies in the private sector. Productivity has fallen in the last ten years. In addition, it is an increased challenge that the petroleum industry will not be the same growth and productivity engine as before. In the longer term, oil activity could mean less for our country, but it will still be significant. It must therefore continue to have stable and predictable framework conditions and must be guaranteed access to new areas. The tax guess for the petroleum industry has served us well and should be solid. Transfer of competences from oil to other industries will become increasingly important. Future growth will come in industries with less returns than in oil, and we must therefore facilitate and convert into a business that is adaptable and attracts capital. Tax reforms with planned reductions in corporate taxes and the tax on working capital will therefore be a good tool to reduce the cost of capital for Norwegian-owned enterprises. At the same time, continued growth in wealth requires policies that foster innovation and further development, not least in combination with the necessary reforms of public activities. Then we need to prepare ourselves further for the green shift, which is underway, and which will be central to industrial policy in the foreseeable future. The instruments of society must be put in place to reduce global emissions and must not distort competition for Norwegian activities. At the same time, we need to prepare internationally for the increased protectionism and the more introverted policy we see in several countries. Our country, of all people, depends on the world around us, and we must contribute to maintaining international trade and links between the countries. We depend on access to larger markets. I am therefore pleased that at least a solid majority in the Committee agrees that our small, open economy and thus our welfare society depend on the world around us, not least our relationship with the European markets through the EEA Agreement and other international trade agreements. It will be a very central work for any future government to call upon our welfare society so that we can maintain and strengthen our agreements on the widest possible free movement of goods, services and not least investment. The country's financial assets in the State pension fund abroad support economic development over time. I am pleased that the Committee supports an expected real return of 3 pst. in the case of withdrawals from the Fund, but one also adds that fiscal policy should be adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy so that fluctuations in production and employment can be balanced — as has been the case in particular in the last three years since the oil price shock hit the Norwegian economy. I also perceive that the Stortinget is still behind the main 2001 priority of aligning the use of oil with infrastructure – i.e. roads and railways – knowledge and growth-promoting tax incentives that can create new and relocated jobs but also ensure existing ones. We must never forget that. The work on the more efficient organisation of public administration is demanding, both practical and not least political, but it is necessary for us to be able to continue to offer improvements in the provision of services wherever people live in the country. The alternative to meeting the ever-increasing public sector coverage needs is increased employment – we need to do this – more efficient management, increased private co-financing or simply increased taxes, but none of these options alone can be the solution to future financing challenges for the welfare community. It is around these assessments that the Committee of course shares views on how to solve this financing of our welfare society. We have a very good starting point – there is no doubt about it – but we are also facing significant challenges. Some of them we know, others we don't know. Despite our highly educated population and our productive business, we need to change. We need to increase professional participation, and we need to get more out of public resources. It will be completely central to the never-ending work of international trade and cooperation. It has given our country, and it has given Europe, both peace and economic growth for a very long time. At the same time, it is important that our sound state economy does not become a sleep cushion in order not to make the necessary system reforms in society over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e235	The choice for the harvest is important for Norway. It's a choice in many individual matters, and it's a choice of value. It's about what kind of Norway we want to be. For voters, there is a choice between two distinct alternatives – a government of the Advance Party and the Right on one side and a Workers Party-led government on the other. The perspective message draws up the long lines of our society, decades ahead of time. The review of the challenges can many people agree to: Work for all is the key to financing the fragile welfare state. Others have to have the opportunity to work. The economic space in the future will be reduced, in particular following the record oil money use of the Right-wing Party Government. At the same time, new, large investments are needed, especially in the care of our elderly, new technologies, knowledge and competences. If we are to take care of our social model, we must remain a technologically modern, productive and curious society with little differences, participation from all and equivalent opportunities throughout the country. It is in the answers to these challenges that the options separate teams, as the representative Fleet correctly said. This is where both choice and choice of value are clearly shown. The policy of the right-wing Party government does not respond to the challenges it itself describes. It takes us in the wrong direction. It's been four years. So-called growth-promoting tax cuts do not produce growth or new jobs. A right-wing policy that increases disparities weakens the possibilities of conversion and joint action. A passive industrial policy does not address Norway’s advantages. An unimpaired use of money has increased deficits and put short-term prospects ahead of long-term. In a difficult time where we have to stand together, state councils have sown a rift where they should have gathered. We cannot afford four new years of unsocial tax cuts, growing government budget deficits and a policy that fails with the most important thing – to get more people to work. It is therefore urgent to make Norway the most important part of Norwegian policy — and the most important part of economic policy. That is why the Workers' Party has written its own perspective message, and it provides us with answers to the challenges we now believe we are facing. A lot is good in Norway. We have a lot of possibilities. Now it's going a little bit better with the Norwegian economy. We're happy about that. But as the governor said in February, the transitions are ahead of us. In our response to the perspective message, we outline five developments that need to be reversed. First of all, the share that's at work was last year at its lowest in twenty years, and it falls. The Progress Party and the Right Guard create too few jobs in the private sector. More people have to work. Secondly, the Progress Party and the Right have made it less attractive to organise and more attractive to hire people for unsafe contracts. That development must be reversed, it must be cleaned up in the workplace. Thirdly, the economic differences are increasing. It is bad for trust and cohesion in society, and it weakens our ability to change. That development must also be reversed. Fourthly, growth in productivity in Norway is close to zero. It has to go up. And fifth, the welfare state is not sustainable with today's course. That is why we need to pursue an economic policy and a public sector policy that enables us to pay for a world-class welfare state, including for those who get older in the years to come, even for our children and grandchildren in the longer term. These challenges are huge separately. In combination they are very large. Compared to the 2013 forecast, the estimates for annual productivity growth up to 2060 have been adjusted down from 1.8 pst. to 1.5 pst. Solberg and Jensen have failed in what they thought a few years ago was most important – increasing productivity growth. At the same time, we feel that the proportion of those without work is record high and increasing. In particular, young people have become more demanding in the labour market. This combination, decreasing share of work and weak productivity development are very unfortunate. We need to do more to get more people to work. We have to do more to get productivity growth again. If we are to succeed in solving these challenges, we need to achieve the full quality of the Norwegian model. Norway is, as one of the world's most open economies, also mentioned by the representative Fleet, exposed to forces that work on all countries. If we meet passive changes from new technology, globalisation and migration, then the differences are increasing. The development must be met by a firm political will to give everyone equal opportunities, in the city as well as in the country. Increasing economic inequality is one of the biggest societal problems in many countries around the world. We don't have to let the inequalities get stuck with us. Therefore, a different political will is needed than the present government shows, where the Progress Party has programmed that it is not a political task to reduce differences. Yes, some people think it's due to developments that there's less room for politics today, that politics doesn't benefit, that people and society have to adapt to the forces. The working party thinks it's the opposite. Politics benefits. This is just the time to mobilise political will to: Strengthen our communities, local and national, small and large communities providing security for the family, making an effort to give our children a good start in life, providing security for our elderly – a policy of equality and equal rights that gives everyone a chance support new industries in which we have special assumptions, such as our clean power and the processing of our natural resources, the enormous opportunities of the sea Politically associate with the social partners and our knowledge institutions to ensure that all receive knowledge and training throughout their lives – lifelong learning, in the face of a working life that requires up-to-date competence However, in the field of field-by-field, the policy of the right-hand side reinforces negative developments. In countries by country, tax cuts are at the top of the list of bets, mostly for those with most of their history — and also for Norway. The inequalities are increasing. A major and growing social problem is thus increasing. That's what the right parties are leaving behind: wrong policy at the wrong time. The Labour Party will pursue a more offensive policy for safe work for all and competence throughout life – creating and sharing, duties and rights, in that order. We'll take care of that. That's the policy we're going to implement after the big shot for the fall. But we can say clearly from now on: it becomes demanding – and more demanding after four years with the Right and the Advance Party policies in government. The action room is almost used up by the Progress Party and the Right. In four years they have increased oil money consumption more than in the previous twelve, including the financial crisis budget in 2009. Siv Jensen became the first finance minister in history to withdraw from the pension fund. In the coming years, there is no room for further escalation in the use of oil revenues. The government of Erna Solberg has effectively reduced the scope of action of incoming governments to meet future challenges. Therefore, now that the priorities are getting much tougher, it is even more important that we be able to do the most important — the most important, the fair, what is based on the best in Norway. We need to invest more, not less, in Community solutions and our most important tasks. When priorities get tougher, choices and value choices mean more. The Workers' Party's Perspectives Communication puts forward concrete policies on a number of points. Let me just mention it in short form. Firstly, a secure economic policy and an active industrial policy will provide more jobs in the private sector. We will digitise industry, establish value creation programmes in strategically important industries such as marine industries. We will use state ownership to ensure that key competences remain in Norway and use public tenders to build domestic markets that in turn can create export opportunities. We must have a world-leading public sector, based on the trust of competent and competent staff. Our healthcare system should be the world leader in e-health by the mid-2020s – to mention something. Secondly, and equally important: a much stronger commitment to competence — learning throughout life, a more ambitious competence policy to get more people to work. For many of those who are not at work today, they are not qualified for tasks in a highly productive Norwegian business. Therefore, the Workers' Party will give priority to lifelong learning – from more professional personnel in kindergartens to early school interventions, a marked increase in professional involvement to a wide range of labour skills reform developed in close cooperation with the social partners and our educational institutions. This is our answer in response to the weak development of productivity. Productivity has to rise because we're once again going to be the best way to put new technologies into practice and new ways to work. Then we must have the most competent workforce in the world. Together with the social partners, we're going to realize this vision and get started from day one. Thirdly, the Labour Party will reduce, not increase, differences in Norway. The most important thing is to make sure that more people get into work. We want to strengthen organised working life, including: by doubling the trade-union deduction and tightening the legislation against unfair terms and contracts. We want to make the tax system more redistributive and focus more on wage subsidies for companies that employ people who are struggling to get a job. Fourth, we must give our older dignity and security — a boost in welfare technology that can make it possible for more people to live at home as long as they want, a municipal economy that provides security — also for our elderly. And fifth, climate. In the context of the 2017 state budget, as the first political party in Norway, the Labour Party put forward concrete proposals on how to achieve the target, step by step, to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. We follow this up loyally and ambitiously. Emissions shall be reduced and in a way that creates new industrial opportunities in the low-emission society. Then I hear that the right parties claim that they are behind something of the same policy. It's just that after the four years that we're laying behind, the Progress Party and the Right have become more and more difficult to be believed when they say it. They are more difficult to be believed because the actual results after four years in so many areas are poor, with increasing inequality, growing deficits, weaker productivity growth and a lower proportion of jobs. They have difficulty being believed because they don't give priority. Early school effort has been eaten off with small sums year after year. Our proposals have been put to the vote. Now, on the tap, Erna Solberg promises that this will be the next big one. It's not for believers. The part of progress and the right is struggling to be believed because it is not possible to increase the use of oil in the next major period near as much as in the last four years. The government is going to have to say it itself. The space for action is marginal. And it's already used up many times on the Right and the Advance Party's promises of tax cuts and a wide range of election vows. We know from the history of the Right and Advance Party what will happen if this continues: deficits will increase, and tax cuts are ultimately more important than school and care for the elderly. The Labour Party presents a credible economic alternative with a responsible tax regime that provides lower or unchanged income tax for three out of four and a slightly higher income and wealth tax for those of us the most. Nine out of ten pensioners are screened. We clearly say about how these funds are to be used – among others. to promote early work for our children and to provide valuable care for our elderly. The parties to the government, on their side, do the bill without a host. The Right and Advance Party announces cut in a place between 20 billion. kr and 50 brd. kr without telling how this should be related to the development they themselves outline in the Perspective Communication. It's irresponsible. The choice for the harvest is a choice of roads and a choice of values. It's about what kind of Norway we want, and what kind of Norway we want to be. In many countries, they are now experiencing weaker communities and increasing differences. It's poisoned against conversion. We don't want yours. That choice is now standing. If everyone is to be included, we need to strengthen, not weaken, what has made Norway one of the world's best countries to live in – investing in skills and productive jobs, security for our elderly, a world-class welfare state, small differences, an organised working life and many at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e332	Norway is well equipped to meet the challenges of the future. We have a high level of labour participation, a high level of natural resources, a high level of competence and sound finances. Wealth is evenly distributed compared to most other countries, and most people have considerable resources, freedom and the ability to manage their lives according to their own assessments, wishes and needs – a very good starting point, even though we have been through a recession since 2014 and are still characterised by reduced investment in the petroleum sector and lower oil price levels. The debate on the previous Perspective Communication, in 2013, made the political divides and disagreements about the use of instruments to achieve key societal objectives visible. Common to all those who took part in the debate at the time was that no one could predict that the oil price would fall like a rock in the summer of 2014. It shows that the future is uncertain and that, as elected representatives, we must not over-focus on the use of money and the size of the funds, but turn our attention to the priority of resources, cost-effective solutions in public administration and service production, and measure the results of policy decisions. Less rhetoric and more substance in the political debate can actually contribute to enriching the Norwegian people. The golden years are over, it's being claimed. It may be more precise to say that the golden oil years are about to phase out, in the sense that we need to have a greater focus on other industrial developments, while maintaining oil and gas production to meet increasing demand for pure Norwegian products. The big shifts do not come overnight, and new industries need time for innovation, commercialisation and market establishment. It is not that the renewable sector is suddenly both profitable and commercially adapted to market needs. This development is taking place over time and with major political contributions to the emergence of new technologies. The profitability of the renewable sector comes, and some segments are already profitable because the large industrial locomotives invest in the sector and use their skills to develop cost-effective solutions. It creates both new products and new jobs, which will contribute to continued growth and prosperity in Norway and the rest of the world. Unilateral attempts to end Norwegian oil and gas production facilitate less cost-effective and more polluting solutions in the short term, as world demand for energy does not diminish but increases. In addition, restrictions on the extraction of Norwegian oil and gas will waste almost 200 000 jobs and undermine the ability of future generations to enjoy freedom and prosperity. We're going to live off the oil for many years, but we still have to make it more profitable to invest in new technology and to establish the jobs of the future, among other things. by lowering taxes, adapting to competing countries, strengthening educational and competence environments and expanding Norwegian infrastructure for the benefit of businesses and people most. Like previous communications, the 2017 Perspective Communication focuses on an analysis of key economic challenges facing Norway in the coming decades. But in addition, this Communication also points to government strategies to meet the challenges we face, i.e.: not just analyses, but policy orientation and choices. The future is created — it is not adopted, and the main decisions for future growth and prosperity are made every day by individuals, families, businesses and many small and large institutions in society. Political decisions provide leadership, rules and frameworks for the activities of society, but it is the small and large decisions of the various actors that, in total, contribute to the achievement of our societal goals. A main objective for Norway in the next few years must be to ensure equal opportunities for education and work, to facilitate more jobs in the private sector and to maintain a social safety net that captures those who fall outside and who cannot live on their own labour income. How, then, are we going to achieve such a goal and such an ambition for social development? The Perspective Communication points to the needs for increased productivity, increased employment rates, more people need to stay longer in work, and more people need to shift from part-time to full-time. At the same time, we need to streamline public resource use and get more out of the money spent on welfare. There are different solutions to balance future budgets. Some believe that taxes need to be increased in order to secure greater income for the country. The party of progress totally disagrees with that solution. There are no examples of increased taxes giving more or better well-being, rather on the contrary. If we work more, it'll win-win. Several jobs lower social security costs, increase value creation and individual income and contribute to inclusion. But we can't force people either to work or to work more. They have to make their own choices, but a prerequisite for getting more people into work is that it pays to work. Lower taxes are not just about the rightness of people to keep a greater share of the money they themselves earn – it is also about strengthening the line of work. Work is to be paid, and more people have to transfer from public benefits to ordinary employment. If the State takes most of the profits from additional work, the motivation is lowered. Conversely, low taxes will make it more attractive to work more. In combination with increased labour participation and productivity, we need to continue to streamline the public sector and challenge established structures and the organisation of public service production, not only in the state but also in the municipalities, where there are large cost differences between the best and worst of comparable services. The interaction between public and private needs to be stimulated and developed in order to streamline resource use and make use of available capacity that makes a positive contribution to public budgets. Purchases of private health services and increased freedom of choice include: helped to reduce hospital queues considerably, and the sick person returns to work more quickly. New Veier AS is a good example of reorganization to plan and build more holistically and not piecefully and divided as before. It provides more roadway, faster and cheaper, with savings of many tens of billions – a good example of how we can streamline the public sector by organising business in a new and better way. The change of government in 2013 and almost four years with a ‘non-socialist’ majority has made Norway better equipped to ensure future work and well-being. Since the treatment of the previous government’s perspective notification, Norway has experienced at least three shocks. The first shock was probably greatest for the Workers' Party, which did not regain confidence in the election on 9 September 2013, so for the whole nation when the oil price fell to record $30 per barrel during a year and a half, and then the migration wave came in autumn 2015. The first gave some opportunities, but the next created major challenges for Norwegian jobs and the Norwegian economy. Now it has turned around, not by itself, but because we have pursued a proper economic policy and a more stringent asylum and refugee policy. Unemployment is soon returning to the same level as before the oil price drop, new businesses are established, and optimism among Norwegian enterprises and households is back. The politics works, and the Labour Party's criticism of too much and too little, too early and too late seems to be merely an expression of its own frustration, without its anchoring in reality. I am not going to spend much time on the Workers' Party's criticism of the use of oil money in this big time period, because in reality, the Workers' Party has not been able to spend less oil money than the government in its alternative budgets. For the Progress Party, that's fine. Before the 2013 elections, we promised the voters to give priority to health, infrastructure, justice and defence, and we have delivered on all of them. Government priorities have been very clear on the need to strengthen key areas and contribute to security, growth, innovation and better framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises. And we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e366	With regard to the notification of the perspective, the question of how to maintain the creation of value as the basis for well-being is a matter for which the Committee has taken serious action and presented different solutions, but there are also joint descriptions of what is needed, as the rapporteur had in mind. What are we going to live on in the future? A lot of the answer we can find by looking at our own story. Petroleum wealth and the Nordic model have been central to Norwegian value creation and well-being. Norway was a relatively rich country both before oil and before the establishment of the Nordic model. Norway was poor compared with Norway today, but not compared to the Europe of the day. The Norwegian economy has had strong developments since the beginning of the 1990s. This is due not only to high oil prices and a good trading relationship with the rest of the world, but also to a favourable demography. Both the proportion of older people and young people has decreased, while the proportion of the working age population has increased. But since the proportion of young people has decreased, this could not be. Therefore, there is reason to stop at birth rates in Norway, which now goes down. They are higher than the EU average, but have fallen from 1.98 per child per woman in 2009 to 1.71 in 2016. And as the hearing showed, it was not easy to get answers to the reasons for this, but it is important to clarify it. A major challenge is global inequalities, not least in rich countries, but also in Norway, as a rich country. The difference between poor and rich countries has been decreasing since the 1980s. At the same time, globalisation has created greater internal differences. The workers of rich countries feel that competition for jobs is getting tougher and that wages are stagnating. If the gain is not distributed, the workers will be lost and the owners won. The IMF showed some years ago developments in rich and poor countries, and how it had been in the last 25 years. The conclusion was that less inequality leads to faster and more lasting growth and that public distribution measures can have a positive impact on economic growth. In addition, different communities can cause political instability, poor investment climate and increased debt build-up. The third major challenge facing the world is global warming resulting in environmental damage. There is a strong consensus among global climate scientists that the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere contributes to this. There is agreement that we should take a climate promise, and during this period we have contributed to this: last, but not least by getting a climate law in place and new binding decisions on cutting. Earth's biodiversity is threatened on many levels. One example is the crisis in the sea, where nine out of ten fisheries are overfished or at the limit of overfishing, and where the fish itself is getting more and more plastic, with untold consequences for us human beings. What, then, is the solution to sustainable value creation and well-being? The number is short, so it has to be schematic: we have to work to maximise the number of jobs and thus ensure the quality of life and Norwegian value creation of the individual in the long term. The economic recessions of the day and of the future must meet with an independent monetary policy, an active countercyclical policy and moderate wage settlement. We must continue to invest in the Nordic welfare model, which has given us historical advantage. We also need to protect workers' rights and strengthen training and labour market measures, and we need to ensure that those who are involved in value creation also get incentives in terms of what we decide here in this house. Knowledge is essential – research and infrastructure as well. That's where this majority has shown their way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e387	In Norway, we have been good at cooperating. We have a country with great confidence and a strong sense of community. We in the Central Party believe that the nation state, with the strong contract it is between people and authorities, is a good framework – a framework for community, for redistribution and for long-termity, where we raise each other socially when there are individuals or groups facing challenges and where there has been a political will to lift each other geographically if there are individual areas in the country facing special challenges. We've used the policy to raise each other socially and geographically. The Community in the Member State of origin is a protection for those who are struggling. By raising and feeling a real community, there has been a stronger will for redistribution. And we live by each other's work. There is probably some success in Norway over time: the Community feeling we have had, that we have had a high level of employment, and that we have had a labour market where cooperation has been strong. There has been strong tripartite cooperation, with strong trade unions, responsible employers and an active country. We've seen very well in recent years how important it has been with moderate settlement and accountability when the country's economy needs it. The fact that the Norwegian people said no to the EU in 1972 and 1994 has ensured that today we have our own currency – that we have the Norwegian krona, not the euro. For the last four years, everyone – even Erna Solberg, who has been the leading champion of the euro – has praised the crown once in a while, how important it is that we have it just when the economic cycle has gone against us. Wages and salaries have been responsible for the last four years, the currency has corrected the competitive disadvantages, and we have had a low interest rate. Ergo would be thought that the investments in the Norwegian industry went up, but there are very worrying signs. Although investment in the oil and gas industry has now fallen, investment in industry has not increased, it is investment in property. According to SSB figures, this year it will be invested at the top of 20 billion. kr in industry, but around 200 billion. kr in property. We can't live to wealth, and we can't live to future well-being, so one of the main challenges for any future government is: how are we going to manage to raise investments in Norwegian value-making industries? How are we going to get more value chains in Norway? For some of our success, in addition to having a strong community, comes from being rich in natural resources, and from how we have managed them. But if you look at it historically, the real values of natural resources are falling, and it is the countries that are capable of processing that are successful. Now, when we're about to phase out the oil and gas revenues gradually, that's where the key to further welfare growth lies. My call, which really goes to everyone, and the Central Party's concern in the communication, is: how are we going to be able to build a new industrial policy? How are we going to be able to create new values? We believe that the framework we have, precisely with a strong nation state – a state that actively contributes, where we learn from past historical features, that government instruments have been set in motion in times of decline – is the best answer in the future. Finally, I hope that this is one of the last weeks of this government's governance period, because we believe it's been wrong medicine just to bet on tax cuts, and that you've been focusing on a policy where you haven't seen the whole country, which has increased the differences. For the success in Norway has come from the opposite, precisely that we have lifted each other, seen the community and used the country’s instruments actively, including in the areas of the country that are struggling.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e408	Perspective Grid is a useful and interesting reading message. The challenges and opportunities ahead are big and significant – and neither can or must be easily addressed. The climate problem and the resilience of the welfare society are both decisive for the freedom of those who come after us – that they have the same, and preferably the best, opportunities to realize and live the good life and can benefit and benefit from nature, as we rejoice in. Fortunately, almost four years of civil, non-socialist pluralism have laid a good foundation. Despite the record fall in oil prices, with the perhaps worst crisis ever for the important coastal supply and maintenance industry on the South and West, there is much evidence that the arrows again point in the right direction. The unadulterated industry or industry itself has to change, together with the measures we have taken from the Storting side, so that one can create new, secure jobs. And often, based on existing technology and competence, a new solution is developing straight towards markets that demand green values. Norway, with the important coastal export industry at its head, has good leadership to make a difference, not only helping to close the world in dealing with the climate problem, but also providing the basis for new industry, new jobs and not least for financing future well-being and freedom. These developments and policies must continue and strengthen, unless I am really concerned that we will leave unnecessary major challenges to future generations. The red-green plural that had power has not exactly overinterpreted as an opposition party. I really hope that the voters know how to appreciate the game as a contribution to actual results, not primarily using the time of self-marking and little fact-based rhetoric. It's after all the results, not rhetoric and perceptions, that move society forward. I agree with the main challenges and conclusions drawn in the perspective message. The majority, however, take a little light on some problem settings and – if any – get new tools to solve them. These are climate and environmental challenges, and they are about the resilience of the welfare state to an ageing population. In the setting, the Left has three main points of view for the policy that must be pursued in order to meet tomorrow's challenges, as described in the Perspective View. First of all, he must be a forward-looking man. Today's policy must aim to ensure that our children and grandchildren also grow up with a school that ensures education, health care that keeps them healthy, and welfare arrangements and communities that set up when they need help. This means that we are forced to convert the Norwegian economy so that we do not depend on oil. Secondly, a viable economy must be green. A green economy will take care of the earth and be viable even when oil comes to an end. This means that we are forced to tax more smartly to stimulate green nutrition, green lifestyles and make it more attractive and profitable to make climate-friendly choices in everyday life and in governance. Thirdly, the welfare state must be financed so that we do not drain the oil fund. Continuing today's trend in money use, the state budget will suffer large losses and the oil fund will be empty by 2050. This means that we must follow and further develop the rules of action of the oil fund. As a consequence, the Left makes two important suggestions in the configuration. One is to give priority to the weakest, rather than to those who have the most and are the best, by reforming with evener rates of unemployment and health-related benefits such as disability benefits, redundancy payments and sick pay. The second proposal is against the rule of action. In isolation, it is positive that the Storting today decided to lower the rule to 3 pst. However, the Left's proposal will ensure us much better against short-term thinking which means that the fund will be lost for capital instead of real cuts, re-priorities and savings and investment by linking the consumption of the fund more to actual results than just size. I take as a conclusion the following suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e431	The representative of Terje Breivik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e436	It is urgent to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from today’s levels both in Norway and in the rest of the world. I think the Left's representative was the first to talk in depth about the climate in this debate, and it's really saying about the whole discussion about the perspective message. It is too narrow, and it does not take into account that our generation is in what is probably an existential crisis for our way of life and our civilization. If our generation doesn't deal with the dramatic transformation of our entire economy in a few years, we're destroying the life base of our descendants, and not least of those people who aren't so lucky to live in any of the richest countries in the world in the north. If the world is to achieve its climate goals, large parts of the world's fossil resources must remain underground. This also applies to Norwegian fossil resources. Many of the major investments planned or desired by the majority of the Stortinget can end up as large misinvestments in the world are expected to achieve their climate objectives. It's time to take it seriously. We have an industry that can carry us through the green shift. A targeted industrial policy and abstinence from this business neutrality that is so high on the right-hand side must be done to bring about the green shift. If we are to achieve both climate objectives and ensure that the large investment in future industry and production is to be achieved, it is – once again – necessary to leave fossil resources in place. But the best experience from Norwegian oil and industrial policy and history shows that we can develop new jobs and values that benefit everyone. Climate-friendly industries have been a competitive advantage for many years, and this has become increasingly important. The great blessing of the Norwegian oil adventure is not that we found oil in itself, but that we developed a model to harvest the oil that benefited everyone, who made sure that the expertise was in Norway, production was in Norway, jobs remained in Norway. With strong trade unions and a strong community between the public and the employer and the employee, we have built an industry to be proud of, and that is the best basis for resolving the climate crisis in Norwegian soil. Some are still climate skeptics in this room, and there is nothing new. The party of progress has long had a monopoly on that practice in the Chamber, and fortunately they are alone on that. But we also have another category of skeptics in the hall, and there are different skeptics. Despite the fact that the Minister of Finance has repeatedly said in this Chamber over the past few weeks that differences in Norway do not increase, the government itself determines in the perspective notification that differences are increasing. Then it's opportunistic to point out that they're increasing, so you can blame the immigrants. There has been a trend over several decades that differences have increased in Norway and have increased faster in Norway than in many other comparable countries. The government's tax policy has led to the clear best-off with the largest assets and revenues, and this, of course, contributes to further increasing economic differences. It is essential to maintain and strengthen trust in the Norwegian society in order to be as capable as possible of meeting future challenges. In order to achieve this, policies need to be put in place to reduce differences, as opposed to current policies, which have largely made up for major differences. I fully agree with Mr Breivik's statement that we need to give more priority to those who have the least, rather than those who have the most, but that is the opposite of what the majority parties have been doing in the last four years. Several politicians from the right often claim – they don't dare to claim it so often in the Chamber here, but they like to claim it in journals like Minerva and such things on the right – that we can't afford the welfare state in the future and therefore have to cut into completely central welfare systems. This is a misguided and quite historyless strategy. I would like to remind you that large parts of the welfare state and our society are built up at a time when the country had much less money than today, and before we found oil. That's the way we've organized our well-being, which has helped us grow so strong and develop such a strong well-being, by ensuring that everyone got to share in the growth, everyone got increased purchasing power, everyone had a safe job to do. Then they also had far greater resources to make a fair society. Small differences and high trust between people are a key contribution to overall productivity in society. Studies conducted by the OECD show that inequality inhibits economic growth. This should lead to reflection when several politicians on the right claim unilaterally that tax cuts will lead to increased economic growth. We haven't seen much of that in the past, and maybe that's because almost 40 pst. of the wealth tax laws the government is so proud of, has gone to wealthy pensioners and not to the business community on the right. Finally, just a little reflection around the time of the debate on the perspective message, in the run-up to a election and in the interview of a travel session: Shouldn't this debate take place at the beginning of the ageing period? Shouldn't this be a debate that premises how we discuss politics for the rest of the period? I think it would have been for the Norwegian debate and the best of Norwegian policy. At that time, more politicians might have had to do something, for example. with the excessive use of oil money rather than polishing around it at the end of the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e458	This perspective message is therefore presented as we move towards a decision-making process that is a path for Norwegian society and policy. The Greens intend to contribute to this. The Communication of Perspectives is the government’s perspective on societal developments and the prerequisites for those developments for decades to come. Of course, it's a difficult exercise, but it's an exercise that's clearly going to be easier if you take into account what's actually going to happen in the decades we're facing. The Greens agree with almost all speakers, as far as I can hear, that we are facing more inequality in society. We have to do something about that. We agree that we are facing an increasing challenge of government spending on an increasing number of older people. We agree with the overall objective of having a society of well-being, security, equality and, above all, quality of life in Norway, also in 30 years. We agree that one of the keys to this is work to as much as possible and to more than today – more jobs, new jobs in new industries and, in the opinion of the Greens, sharing jobs in a more flexible working life where no one works 120 pst. and some work 0 pst. If we're going to succeed in doing this, we also have to take on what is actually going to control the changes in the years that are coming. And what is that? Well, it's that we're going to develop a society that is significantly different from the one we have today. The technology, the jobs, the economy, the transport is going to be different. If this is to make a positive impact on Norwegian welfare and quality of life, we need to give business and society the opportunity to invest properly, together – and to want to change and believe in change. What is going to happen is that Norway is going to become a low-carbon society. As recently as last week, the Stortinget decided that greenhouse gas emissions in Norway will be down to 95 pst. cut in 2050 in relation to today. It is also in line with the Paris Agreement and the agreement we conclude with the EU. It's about far more than cutting emissions. It's about technology, it's about transport, it's about industry, it's about how we set up our entire society. It is about how cities and cities develop, it is about agriculture, forestry and a number of new forms of production. It's a demanding change – it's a change that requires us to bet on it. But it is also the very best assumption that Norwegian business can develop in a positive direction that creates the economy and jobs that we depend on. It's about even more. Norway has signed on to the UN’s new sustainability target. Why did we do that? Well, we've done it because, for a moment as a state, we recognized that the evolution the world and Norway are in, where the precondition for social development and economic development is still that we should eat more and more of our living environment, is a development that will result in costs, economic and human, that is far from what we can accept. So we've agreed that we're going to end that development, and then we're going to start with a development called sustainable. We're going to develop an economy called circular. Nothing in this so-called perspective message points towards such a development. This perspective message is a conservative, pointless, fearless and selfish message that we're going to try to do everything we can to have it the way we have it, and we've had it. That kind of perspective is not going to give Norway a good future. The Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European One is a proposal to present a new perspective communication based on the factors that are actually going to lie at the heart of societal change and industrial development in the years to come. The second is that we take over the need to divide by work and make it a goal more to take out productivity growth in terms of time than income. The third is to take seriously the Workers' Party's concern about the country's carbon exposure and to address this problem, and we expect the Workers' Party to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e477	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e482	When I hear some of the posts here today, I wonder if Norway is on the edge of the dive. We don't. Norway is a country with great potential. We have a good starting point for meeting the challenges ahead of us. The aim of the perspective communication is to highlight the main challenges that the country faces in the coming years. How future generations shape society will depend not only on the political choices we make but on the development of wealth and technological opportunities. The challenges must be solved through wise political choices year after year, but it is important that we are already moving in the right direction. The last decades have been a golden period for the Norwegian economy. Important economic trends have pointed our way. Now trends break: The oil fund will not continue to grow at the same rate. The rate of return is estimated to be lower than before. Oil prices have fallen and are not expected back to old levels. An older population causes a smaller proportion of the population to work and pay taxes, and expenditure on pensions and health and care services to increase. In the last year, we've also seen clear signs of more protectionism in the world. The last of these trends may prove to be serious for a small country with its economic structure. Norway’s prosperity is based on trade with the rest of the world and free markets. An example is the farming industry. It is one of our biggest industries and an important district industry. At the same time, the challenges to which increased protectionism claims to respond are highly real. In several countries, economic growth has reached the majority of the population to a very small extent. It's not like that in Norway. Norway is a country with small differences. Almost everyone has been able to share in the wealth growth of the last decades. In addition, income differences are less inherited in Norway than in most other countries. Nevertheless, we must be aware that a non-sustainable immigration policy will lead to major differences. Productivity growth is essential for well-being. If we're going to do as generations before us, that's to create a better society, we need to get more back for the effort we put in. The level of productivity in Norway is high, but, as in most other OECD countries, productivity growth in the last decade has been clearly weaker than in the past. Since much of the productivity growth in Norway is based on technology and knowledge developed in other countries, productivity growth in Norway will be weaker in terms of productivity growth. This is the main reason why productivity growth has fallen. Growth is also likely to be reduced by the recession in recent years. After the financial crisis, firms have been cautious about investments, including: as a result of uncertainty about economic developments. The decline has been met by reforms since this government took over. According to the OECD, the reformer has decreased in OECD countries, while Norway stands out for a marked increase in reform activity. So we need to work more on reforms, not less. The condition for good productivity growth is that we carry out the necessary reforms. For 50 years, Norwegian oil and gas have given us a welfare society other countries only dreams of. Although these resources are limited and the sector will no longer attract the activity of the mainland economy year after year, the values of the seabed will be important to us for many decades to come. It is also important that we succeed in transforming the Norwegian economy into a new situation, where we are more similar to other Western economies. The oil price drop showed this with all clarity. One of the most important things we can do is to facilitate more innovative businesses, and we have good opportunities to do that. The supplier industry has built up a highly sought competence, also internationally. Many workers are well qualified, also for jobs in other industries. Oil industry technology has been introduced in industries such as fish farming, health, transport and renewable energy. Increased life expectancy may be the leading sign of progress in a society. At the same time, it will take a lot of us to provide many more with a good and dignified care for the elderly, and pay for pensions. The welfare society redistributes not only between persons but also over the life cycle of the individual. Children, young people and the elderly receive more than they contribute, while adults in the middle pay the most. Then our perception of the elderly needs to be adjusted when life expectancy increases. We can't have a development where we're working an ever shorter part of life. It is also the case that the challenge I mentioned, the burden of caring, is reinforced by high levels of immigration. This is because immigrants are one of the groups where there is fewer jobs than the average. In the interests of both the sustainability of welfare systems and of individual immigrants, it is important that those to live in Norway become well integrated into the labour market and become economically independent. That we make demands is a prerequisite. It is also important that immigration is no larger than that we can handle it in a good way. Immigration policy must be strict and responsible for ensuring a sustainable asylum policy. In summary, the perspective statement clearly shows that if we are not willing to make changes, we will in future have a stronger growth in spending and a lower growth in government budget revenue. The government believes there are two main strategies for meeting the challenges of the funding gap: Increased professional participation by increasing the number of people at work and participation – we need to avoid, to a greater extent, health problems, language difficulties or lack of skills preventing people from being in work. It requires a school system that gives young people the best chance of living in the workplace. More full time and less sick leave will also be able to contribute. Today, every three women work part-time. If these worked full-time instead, total hours in 2016 would increase by 8 pst. We need to get more out of the money spent on the public sector. It requires clear priorities, performance requirements and clearer objectives. Competition can also contribute — as private kindergartens have contributed to providing us with full child care, private promises can provide well-being and produce more of the services in other parts of the public sector. The challenges we face are too great for us to let ideological cowards and political games shape the development of society. Resistance to private kindergartens and decisions to re-communalise private services in the care of the elderly are examples that go in the wrong direction. The welfare society of the future cannot afford to shut out those who will contribute to the development of well-being. Norway in 2017 is a good country to live in, but wise choices need to be made to preserve our welfare systems. Here, red tape and efficiency reform are a useful tool. Several government reforms will contribute to more of the resources being used where they are most needed. They are part of an offensive strategy to secure the future of Norway: Tax reform because we need to make companies invest more in new industries, new technologies and new jobs. Municipal reform because we need bigger and stronger municipalities. Police reform to ensure good police services across the country. Hospital reform National health and hospital plan because patients should have the best treatment for competent personnel wherever they live. The creation of New Roads to ensure the overall and cost-effective development and operation of road safety. Neither increased work nor more efficient use of resources is easy. But the government doesn't want to cut the welfare offer or increase the user payments. Increased taxes do not solve the challenges, but will weaken incentives to work and create jobs. We have to be open to Norway in 50 years' time, and we have hardly any imagination to predict what development will be like. It is only to compare Norway today with Norway 50 years ago — the North Sea oil had not yet been discovered. The most important thing is that Norway has a good starting point — economic, knowledge, technology and social — to meet future challenges. The government doesn't just want to secure the welfare systems, we want to develop them further. If we are to cope with this, we cannot pursue a policy that takes Norway in reverse. We all have opportunities to succeed, but it requires that we pursue an active policy that will take Norway forward. Our ability to create good jobs, to increase participation in the labour market and to develop and implement new solutions will be crucial for the level of prosperity that Norway will have and for which welfare schemes we can have. These challenges need to be addressed through wise choices year after year. It is elections that I believe this government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, has shown the ability to take over this great period. It's an ability and will we want to continue for the next four years as well. In this way, we guarantee well-being, we create new growth and value creation in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e564	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e569	After four years of uncontrolled use of oil money and record budget deficits, the Ministry of Finance writes in a working paper to the prospective report that in the coming years there is no room for further escalation of the use of oil revenues. At the same time, party leader Siv Jensen is going to vote to cut the taxes by 50 billion. kr. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen's government has calculated that party leader Siv Jensen's tax regime will give the country's wealthiest more than 6,000 times more in tax cuts than the large majority of the population. In the current period, the government has partly financed the tax cuts with the free flow of oil money and partly by increasing the fees for most people by 4 billion. kr. If party leader Siv Jensen is to listen to finance minister Siv Jensen, she can no longer spend oil billions as before. So the question is: how much will the Progress Party cut off in school, health and care for the elderly to pay for the tax cuts to the richest people in the country, if they continue in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e574	When I heard the speeches earlier today, the impression was made that the government has only used the room for action to reduce taxes. So that's wrong. The large amount of money this government has spent on increasing investment in infrastructure, school, health, municipal economy and other important areas, not least security and preparedness. In addition, we have found room to give the necessary tax incentives, including: through the tax reform we presented and got broad support in the Storting. I believe it is important to continue to work to reduce and streamline the tax system – simply because it facilitates more work and creates more jobs. It is an honest matter that the Workers' Party chooses to increase taxes, but it is also the only clear election promise we have received from the Workers' Party. So the answer to most of the societal challenges that come from the Workers' Party is increased tax. The problem is that it is not an effective tool. I think we need a competitive tax system so that we can create values for the future and secure jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e581	That's not right, what the Minister of Finance says. The Labour Party also makes choices on a high level of competence, which would be essential to increase productivity. Productivity growth fell in most of the Western world after the financial crisis, and in the 2013 Perspective Communication, the estimate for annual productivity growth was up to 2060 1.8 pst. Three years ago, when Siv Jensen was a relatively fresh finance minister, she, together with Prime Minister Erna Solberg, attacked the previous government because productivity growth was not high enough. They pointed to a graph where productivity growth was less than the growth of people's real wages. Siv Jensen then said: ‘It shows that there are smarter ways to control than the red-greens did. If we're able to increase productivity by as little as 0.2 percent per. years until 2060, it will mean more for the Norwegian economy than our entire oil wealth." [[...]] Today productivity growth is zero, and annual productivity growth estimates are down to 1.5 pst. Are the pensioners going to pay the bill for future governments succeeding just as badly as today's government in doing something about productivity growth in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e595	The Labour Party need not opt for a reform of competence. It is already well under way by the government and the cooperation parties – early school efforts, more teachers into the low levels, a university and higher education reform and a wide range of other measures and instruments to strengthen the level of Norwegian schools – so it is not necessary for the Workers' Party to spend time on it. In terms of productivity, there is a problem this government has been dealing with throughout the period. I think we should focus on that, across the political parties, even in the years to come. But the prerequisite for success in productivity growth depends on what happens in countries around us that we depend on as a small and open economy, but it also depends on our ability and willingness to carry out structural reforms. During this period, the Labour Party has been opposed to saying every reform this government has put forward, criticising them apart and together instead of helping us to put in place successful reforms that produce results in the long term and that strengthen productivity growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e602	Kids have absolutely something to do with perspectives. As I mentioned in my article, birth rates have fallen quite sharply in Norway in recent years — at the peak of 1.98 in 2009, now 1.71. The Minister of Finance was involved in immigration in his speech. To compensate for such a low birth rate in the long term, many will just point to immigration. My question is: does the Minister of Finance see it as important to take action to increase birth rates, or will she compensate for increased immigration?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e609	I don't think it's that simple. Firstly, I think everything is right in Norway for young people in the establishment phase to create large families with children. We have good welfare arrangements, conditions are well suited in the professional life to combine children and work. We'll take care of that. There are good and important parts of our welfare system that help to make family life easier. Setting this up against immigration I believe is a short cut. If one looks at the estimates contained in the perspective statement, they show with all possible clarity a lower employment rate for immigrants than for the population otherwise. It's a challenge we have to take seriously. It's about successful integration policies, it's about language, it's about qualification, and it's about real willingness to participate. There is, of course, also a link between different welfare systems and the threshold across the labour market, but this is a major challenge, and we do not solve small birthrates by increasing the non-productive immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e616	Investments in property will amount to approx. 200 B.C.E. kr in year. That's the estimates. We see that due to lower EEA immigration, the demand side of the housing market is not as strong as it was a few years ago. Investment in industry is just above 20 billion. kr. What is the Minister of Finance's assessment that there is so little investment in industry, as was Øystein Dørum's problem at the hearing in the Financial Committee? It's clear that over time it's not a sustainable solution that we're going to stimulate the economy just by building new homes. Gradually, there won't be enough people to place in all the dwellings. I am interested in hearing her evaluations and strategies to reverse development, so that you can turn it from investment in property to investment in industry, which is now at the lowest level of 25 years, according to the hearing we had when the NHO was present.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e624	I agree with Vedum's representative that it is important to facilitate investment to create new productive business in Norway, which provides the basis for more jobs and tax revenues and the well-being we want to take care of and further develop in Norway. There is a lot that could have been said about the property market in Norway. There has been a significant and galloping growth over several years. The combination of the measures implemented by the government on the offer page and the change we implemented in the housing loan regulation before Christmas now appears to help. The housing market is cooling down, and we should be glad, especially for young people in the establishment phase who want to get into a pretty hot housing market. We have intervened during this period to turn the investment away from property and into business, for example: by the way we have adjusted the taxes on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e633	Following the initiative of the Left in the 2017 Budget Decision, the Stortinget government asked in the perspective message to discuss what meets the global climate objective of limiting global warming to close to 1.5 degrees could have on Norwegian petroleum policy devices. The government's response can be summed up in two words: no one follows, despite the government's writing: ‘A global climate policy in line with the two-degree objective, and to an even greater extent a policy in line with a 1.5 degree target, may mean that a significant share of the world’s fossil resources are not being extracted’ Preaching ‘business as usual’ attitudes and policies in such a scenario is a high risk both financially and economically and to the highest degree climate. The question is: how does the Minister of Finance think Norway should achieve the greenhouse gas reductions we are required to achieve by 2030, without significant reductions in emissions from Norwegian petroleum activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e643	I believe that Norwegian oil and gas production is part of the solution to the future climate challenges and not part of the problem. It's about looking at the global energy mix and the fact that Norwegian-produced oil and gas that is clean and quite emittable are more important to the global energy mix than the creation of new coal-fired power plants, which is still happening in large parts of the world. Norwegian oil policy is going to be part of the solution. In addition, during this period the four cooperation parties have implemented a wide range of measures in the field of climate and environment that are now working. We're looking at it in the transport sector, and we're looking at the change in the Norwegian car park. We see emissions and emission projections moving in the right direction. Overall, I think we have a lot to be satisfied with. During this period, we have provided a lot of good climate policy that works – not least thanks to the pressure from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e650	Differences in Norway are increasing. There are a number of publications that I believe the government is familiar with, most recently from Technical Calculations, which show that differences in Norway are increasing regardless of whether you expect dividends or not. Is the Minister of Finance now ready for the first time to say outright and admit that the differences in Norway are increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e657	Differences in Norway are small compared to most other countries. There are only two other countries in the world that have less differences than us. It's a quality we have to take care of. There is a broad consensus in this Chamber that we should continue to set up the policy in such a way that we ensure that everyone comes along. It creates inclusion, it creates trust, and it creates opportunities for everyone no matter what background they have. I understand that the opposition is looking for some straw straw they can use to run a campaign. But lifting inequality up as a big problem in Norway, I don't think a lot of Norwegians recognize that. This is a safe welfare society with good, universal arrangements that benefit everyone, and that is something we agree that we should take care of. That is why I think it is a little special that SV does not find a better campaign case than to raise inequality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e664	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e669	It's hard to stick with the swings when Siv Jensen talks. Usually it is difficult to get involved with what party leaders and finance minister Jensen say, but now I find it difficult to get involved in this debate, because in her main speech she points out that protectionism is based on a development that is most real, namely that they at the bottom of the table, if we can say so, have not been allowed to participate in the development of wealth. To put it another way, the differences are increasing. So she's going to end her post with Snorre Serigstad Valen and she's going to say that the differences aren't one thing we're going to care about, they're small in Norway, so they're not something we're going to think about. But here's a point of view where we're going to look far ahead, and there's something we know about differences, is that they evolve gradually over time. If you don't deal with the problems early, and you don't see what's going on, we can also go in a direction where the differences are increasing. I think it's funny that you're constantly drawing the United States as a place where the differences have been allowed to evolve – I've seen it in several of the government's presentations – a country where so many people attribute it to the fact that the differences have increased so dramatically, precisely that they have led a similar tax policy that this government has pursued – a policy based on the fact that those who have the most, who sit at the top of the table, are going to get more, big tax cuts, and to spend the money on creating jobs. We can see that has not happened in the United States. The government has not been able to show that it has done so in Norway. However, what has given results and developments in Norway over a long period of time is a policy for small differences, tripartite cooperation, the Norwegian model – things that this government has had, we can say, some strained relationship to. Then I have to say, when the country's finance minister is up here and says that the Labour Party has taken away many of the major reforms in this period: well, one of the reforms that really underpins and allows much of the policy here, the pension reform, which I see the message describes as important, and the pension is also an area where we may need further reforms in the future, has also been opposed by Siv Jensen and her party. Tax reform: The foundation was laid through a message from the previous government. The road was designed for what had to happen to the corporate tax and the competition we were exposed to from the outside world in the form of tax competition. So for a finance minister to make such claims, I seem to be at the limit of the absurd. I wish the finance minister had spent time honing things that are important, for example. The front-line model, tripartite cooperation, said that co-ordinated wage formation is one of the things that has made it possible for the export industry we have to be competitive while, with the lowest wages, they have relatively high wages in Norway, saying something about how they intend to do in the future to strengthen the trade unions and the major associations, so that they can continue to be able to resist the international pressure for low wages in low-skilled professions. Norway, writes the Minister of Finance himself in the perspective communication, has less differences thanks to the front-line model. I am listening to Siv Jensen and Hans Andreas Limi; it is sound, sensible economic policy; we had a good room for action when the oil price fall hit us, we have strong finances – but it must be worth noting that it is not safe that we would have been there if it were the Progress Party that had put up the policy that should have been put in front of this oil price drop. It is not certain that we would have had the same space of action in the Norwegian economy if we were to base the alternative budgets of the Progress Party on how we would have gotten up to that point. So there's going to be something surrealistic like working party politicians to get a glimpse of the Progress Party to be irresponsible. I think that's going to show that there's no type of rhetoric that's sustainable in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e690	For the Right and this government, it has been important to solve problems today while arming and strengthening the country for the future, and we believe that Norway has a good starting point for the future, but that it is of course important to make wise political decisions in the future to ensure this good starting point. From the outside, Norway is likely to have an enviable starting point in relation to many other countries: a well-educated population, many natural resources, sound government finances, a well-functioning democracy, small differences and a high level of well-being. But we also have our challenges. In the decades to come, the proportion of older people will increase sharply. We should be happy about this first of all; there are signs of quality and prosperity that life expectancy is being extended, and many people are also experiencing good health in old age. This is a resource for society. At the same time, we know that this demographic development will put pressure on our health services, since older people, despite better health, are naturally larger consumers of healthcare than others. It will be an important challenge in the future how we can combine the use of technology, new solutions and new knowledge to serve this group in a good but also socio-economic way. Furthermore, it is important to find good and sustainable pension solutions, both in terms of retirement age and level of payments. Human capital is our largest asset, and it's important that we use it in a good and flexible way. It also means that we need pension schemes that allow us to choose to stay longer in work, and a pension system that facilitates the switch between the public and private sectors, so that we both avoid the lock-in of competences between the sectors and be able to reap the potential for winning by providing the individual employee with a broader basis of competence. I'm glad that in Norway we have a society with little differences and low inequalities. It is an important foundation for harmony, trust and belonging and the sense of being part of society. In this debate, the opposition chooses to focus on the tax system in its attacks on the Right and the Government. Tax has a redistributive effect, but it is, after all, very small in relation to the redistribution of government budget items. We have a progressive tax system that ensures that those with higher income pay more than those with low income, and this is a system that we all put behind, and which is also clearly expressed through the connection to the government's tax return and the broad tax settlement that was made here at the Stortinget this period. But the greatest inequality in our society goes between those who are at work and those who are out of work. This means that we need to focus both on the fact that there are jobs available to each of us, and that each individual citizen is qualified for work. The government's efforts to raise knowledge and competence have been and are important in the future. I am pleased to record the results and feedback that come from high school, where students present at school and more grades, and where the new rules of absence receive a large part of the credit for these positive results. For every student who gets through high school without dropping out, we have to assume that society saves a lot of money, while giving each one a better starting point and a good quality of life by being able to contribute to society through work. This government has invested heavily in knowledge, research and development, and we need to ensure that health problems, language difficulties or lack of or out-of-date competence do not prevent people from being in work. This is long-term investment both in people and in the society we're going to have in the future. It doesn't just have to be qualified for a job, it also has to be available for jobs. One of the most important things that politicians can do is to facilitate the creation and securing of jobs. The wave that is already over us with digitalization and automation means that many jobs are going to disappear, but it also means that new jobs are going to be created. In this transition, at least one element is going to be important in the future, and it's competence. Successful development requires, in the Highness' view, that we succeed in three areas in particular: We must have a safe working life with low unemployment and high employment. We must have a wealth growth that reaches everyone. We need to get more back for the effort, both in private and in public businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e723	It is depressing that, in the context of a big-mouth message about the big picture, the perspective message, none of the representatives of the government parties has raised our generation's biggest challenge with one word, namely how to stop the most dangerous climate change. Climate change already affects us in Norway. There are increased floods and rainfalls. There's an increase in the number of insurance claims. We have ice melting in the Arctic that affects our northern regions. Not least, we have an increased number of refugees who also come to Norway, driven by climate change and the conflicts that follow in their wake. Climate change is the greatest challenge of our time. They deserve more publicity than the government parties give them, because what is the government's answer? Indeed, during this period, support for renewable energy has been cut, although most of the energy consumption in Norway as of today is fossil. They've cut in all of State Power's ability to bet on offshore wind. They have cut the continuation of the renewable energy support scheme without setting up new technology-promoting support schemes. They leave to follow up the Storting decision on a guarantee scheme for Norwegian enterprises’ renewable investments in developing countries. They have cut renewable aid to developing countries. They have failed to facilitate the investment of State pension funds abroad in the development of renewable energy and infrastructure in the way that has been addressed by many, including the government’s own professional bodies. They have also trained the majority of the population to carry out a green shift. In this way they show how low they are in business, and how little they are in the future. They have said no – for where was it organized for hydrogen production in the industry, as the Stortinget asked for? It's trained. Where has it been organised for coal exploration in industry? It's trained. Where did CO 2 clean up before 2020, which was behind the Storting's overall opposition? It is deferred to 2022 and no solution to the financing issue has been provided. Where did the plan for phasing out fossil energy use, as the Stortinget asked for? It's been dropped by the government. Where was it of the 10 TWh in cut energy use in buildings? It's been trained a whole year by the government, without a single mention. Where was the clear climate target for the national transport plan? Well, it was redefined, and national transport plans – according to their own words – provide for an increase in greenhouse gas emissions. In today's VG, we've seen hundreds of billions of them thrown into socially unprofitable projects, which also contribute to increased emissions. Where did the government follow up on the Storting claim that all public transport should have zero emissions by 2025? It just didn't follow up. Where was taxation for households — as promised in the Memorandum of Cooperation — in order to obtain renewable investment in households? Well, it was converted into a right to Enova money. With the large tax havens that this government has been able to afford, it turns out that supporting the green shift with tax havens was not a willingness. Where was it from the ban on fossil heating of barley? After four years it's not in place. Where did the follow-up to the decision to achieve the objective that all cars should be zero-emission cars after 2025 become? We dealt with this last week – the government parties voted against it. On top of it all, more oil licences are issued than ever. Increased emissions from the oil industry – our biggest contribution to international global climate pollution. Not even their own government platform is being followed up. Strengthening the climate agreement claimed the government it would do. Now Siv Jensen’s perspective report shows that Norway does not reach the climate agreement’s target of cutting to 47 million tonnes adjusted for changing climate profile until 2030. Zero and low emission requirements should be imposed in public tenders, such as for ferries. It was also decided by Stortinget. In the Industry Communication, this was converted into a government plan to facilitate low and zero emissions. We from SV want a different course. We're going to cut emissions by at least 3 million tonnes over the next enlargement period, and we're going to reach the target that lies in the climate agreement. Before the elections, Left promised that a new government, with the Progress Party in the driver's seat, would provide a much better climate policy than the red-green one. Today we have the fasit. That's enough. My generation and those who come after need a government that does not consist of climate negators, but that extends to save the world's climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e756	The debate on the government statement in 2013 was one of my first debates in this Chamber, and that may be why I remember it so well. Another reason might be that the Labour Party’s representative Trond Giske then said that Norwegian industry and Norwegian economy were bottom-solid. I noticed it because it was only a few weeks since DNB Chief Rune Bjerke had decorated the front page of Today's Business with the message that Norwegian economy was on its way from full gas to half speed, the evening post had a front page that showed that unemployment was increasing, and our country wrote: «Erna's new government inherits decay bombs.» The present vice-president of Nordea, Steinar Juel, said at the time that Norway had never before had such a sharp deterioration in competitiveness as in the years after 2005. In addition, we know that there were 15 000 more poor children in Norway under a red-green government that was going to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke, a government that had 21 billion. kr more in tax revenue, which had had historically high oil prices and an economy of growth – bottom-solid. The observational message presented after eight years of red-green government showed that the social-democratic model was unsustainable and that Norway needed a new course. Recognising the effects of globalisation on inequality and unequal growth globally, as the Minister of Finance does, is not as funny as the representative Truls Wickholm wants it to be. The funny thing is, perhaps, that you have an aversion to recognising that Norway, with the Right and the Advance Party in government, is still a country with small differences. A few years ago, the late commentator in Bergen’s Official Journal, Sjur Holsen, wrote the comment ‘The Great Bluff’. There he believed that, with the intention of giving priority, it is fully possible to invest in both well-being and tax relief. He believed that the Workers' Party is constructing contradictions that are not real, but that the right-hand side is unable to raise the debate. This wins the Workers' Party, he thought, because the rhetoric that a crown in tax bills is a crown less for well-being works – not because it is true, but because it is intuitively easy to understand. But simple rhetoric is not the same as good politics. Holsen referred to a series in which Bergen’s Official Journal repeatedly documented the misuse of public funds. When the public takes money from Norwegian business and Norwegian children’s families and uses them so that they do not give value, it is what leads to less well-being. When money just disappears, when projects cost more than they should, or the public sector is unable to produce services smarter, better and more efficiently, but makes things more expensive, worse and less efficient than others, it gives poorer well-being. The 2013 Perspective Communication concluded that if increased productivity in the public sector is taken into account in reducing public expenditure, the impact on public finances could be significant. Thus, the need for migration was evident as early as 2013, and it is also clear in 2017 that liberal budgets do not always produce similar good results in public service production. Norway therefore needs a government that is willing to convert Norway, implement reforms and ensure better sustainability, not a government that reverses necessary changes, whether it is in the organisation of the public sector, welfare schemes that make it unprofitable to work, or the possibility of private business to create jobs. It's interesting to hear how those who thought that the Norwegian economy was a bottom-solid in 2013 have turned from talking about unemployment, because it's now going down, talking about employment. In 2014, L.L.’s then chief executive, Stein Reegård, said to Dagbladet that all the new jobs in the last four years with the red-green government had gone to foreign labour, which pushed out Norwegian labour force. And the employment share fell sharply on the Labour Party's watch – once again when the economy was growing rapidly and the oil price was 120 dollars the barrel. This case represented 140,000 jobs, said Reegård. Norway has undergone a tough transition in the last four years, and now we see that unemployment is falling and growth is increasing. The taxes have gone down, and so do the hospital queues. If the Norwegian model is to become more sustainable, we must also have a sustainable and productive business that creates profitable jobs. Reversing necessary reforms can, at worst, stop growth and thus job creation. The perspective communication clearly shows that Norway does not now need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e774	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e779	Norway is a good country to live in. It is a country where income is distributed more evenly than in many other countries — and this is still the case. Norway was the world's happiest country in 2016. Good governance, income, care, freedom, health, shyness and honesty are the criteria that have been assessed to give a high degree of happiness. Everyone lives in a municipality in the world's happiest country. There is a cross-political consensus that people should have a level playing field and access to basic services throughout the country. Today, 80 pst. by the Nordics in densely populated areas, against 60 pst. 50 years ago. Lifetime increases throughout the population, but central strokes become relatively mild due to the restocking of young adults and their children. Ageing in the population is, therefore, particularly challenging for the districts, and, therefore, it is important to have a local reform that takes account of developments and where the objectives of the reform are good and equivalent services for the inhabitants. We need strong communities with a solid professional and competence environment that ensure good services for our citizens and help prevent centralisation. A well-functioning business is a commitment to our well-being, our living conditions and our quality of life. In this context, it is important to highlight the EEA Agreement and its relevance for Norwegian business. The agreement provides Norwegian enterprises with the same framework rates as EU enterprises today and has been very important for developments in Norway since 1994. Taking care of and creating more profitable jobs in the private sector is the main objective in the future to ensure our common well-being. A large and competent workforce is our most important resource; good use of human resources is crucial to prosperity development. We must continue to pursue policies that stimulate greater participation in the labour market. It shall be paid to be longer in work and we shall have social security schemes so arranged as to pay off the work. The work on immigration and integration shall also focus on working life, one should pursue a fair tax policy, in which taxation of enterprises and ownership should be competitive with comparable countries, and not least an active policy of focusing on knowledge, education and research. It looks lighter for the Norwegian economy. There's increasing optimism to track. The unemployment rate goes down, growth is on the way up, and more jobs are created. It shows that the government is working its policy and that he must continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e796	Some of the main challenges being drawn up in the perspective statement are that we're getting older, that we're going to live longer, and that we're going to have more healthy years. From 2030 public expenditure will increase faster than revenue, and then we need to take the necessary action. As we live longer, it's natural that more people have to work, more people have to work longer and smarter and become more productive, otherwise the math won't go up. With this as a rear carpet, I think it's strange that more people in this hall are fighting for higher immigration. More and more people move and settle in countries other than those in which they are born. This is due to labour immigration, and it is due to refugees and asylum seekers. The number of immigrants to Norway will largely depend on immigration legislation and political signals. This has been seen for many years in the influx of asylum to the Nordic countries, where Norway, Sweden and Denmark have over time had very different numbers of asylum seekers, resulting from different policies in the three countries. That political signals play a role, we saw clearly in the autumn of 2015, when Germany and Sweden in particular experienced a great deal of pressure on the asylum institute because of positive signals about accepting Syrian refugees. The consequences of persistently high levels of immigration over many years can be large and very costly. Norway will have to prepare for either tax increases or welfare cuts with a failed immigration policy. It is therefore important for the Progress Party to continue to control immigration policy, so that it can be strict and responsible for ensuring a sustainable asylum policy. We want a strict immigration policy and believe that this is the prerequisite for successful integration. The last decade has shown us that we are struggling to accommodate those who are legally staying, which means that integration takes too long, with the result that the path of working life and successful integration are much longer and too long for many. We're struggling to get immigrants out of work, especially those who come from Africa. The share of work from the so-called country group 3 is only 54 pst, and the proportion from Africa is even lower. Immigrants are one of the groups with fewer jobs than the average, and for the sake of the sustainability of welfare systems and individual immigrants themselves, it is important that those who are to live in Norway are well integrated into the labour market and become economically independent. A job to go to gives the best integration and is the best social welfare program we have. If we do not succeed in offering this to immigrants, the costs will be enormous for future generations. Therefore, it is important that we do not accept more than the municipalities will live, and more than the ones we are able to take care of and give a meaningful everyday life. It should be the guiding principle of immigration policy. A strict and fair immigration policy will be one of several prerequisites to be able to pass on to our children and grandchildren the welfare society we ourselves live today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e809	If the municipalities are to do a good job of integrating refugees and receiving them, it may not be so helpful that party leader Jensen says that the municipalities should not accept refugees. But there's another debate. I took the word to say something about what Heidi Nordby Lunde thought was not so funny. Siv Jensen has as a kind of main analysis that we are facing a world that is becoming more protective. It has its starting point, she says, that not everyone has been allowed to share in the prosperity. It's one of the main analyses in her post. So she has here in the Storting, repeatedly, failed to answer Snorre Serigstad's choice of whether the differences increase. She does not really want to go into the debate that it might be that the policy that this government is pursuing helps to increase the differences. There's something we've been pointing out: the tax havens help to increase the differences. The weakening of employees’ organisations helps to increase differences. The fact that the government doesn't have the ability to create jobs helps to increase the differences. Then we ask ourselves: is it this development that we want society to move in the direction of, especially when we see the same image that Siv Jensen warns against can be created in other countries, where it becomes populism and little constructive policy because people feel that they are going outside, because they feel that the politicians have not listened to them? Then we say, but Siv Jensen, you're the one who doesn't listen to them here in Norway. It's just you who sucks in the welfare of too many. It's just you who can't create jobs for those who want jobs. That's the message from the Workers' Party and the opposition, but it seems to be a debate that the government won't take. I wish Siv Jensen had listened to Jonas Gahr Støre's contributions earlier today, where he is talking about a reform of skills, which is not about early work in primary school, which Siv Jensen seems to believe, but which is about a comprehensive reform of competences in Norwegian working life, where several of those in work must be allowed to build on their skills, where more people have to acquire more skills in their working life. There is a debate we have had in Norway for a long time, but that is something we have to do with, with which the Labour Party has clear plans to do something, and with which we go to the elections to do something. We have to do that if we're going to be able to relocate society, if we're going to equip ourselves for the future. It should have been an important part of this perspective message, and I wish Siv Jensen had come to know that this is something we are going to vote on. So I ask her – after the debate – to listen to Jonas Gahr Støre's contributions and also to read the Workers' Party's programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e822	I believe it would have been an advantage if the representative Wickholm listened to what I actually said. I was concerned about distinguishing between the differences we see in very many other countries, compared with Norway. Norway is in a special position — together with two other countries — where the differences are small, while we have seen that they have increased in a wide range of other countries, and this is about policy-making. The reason we have succeeded in Norway is that there is a broad political consensus that we should have good, broad, universal welfare schemes that are tax-funded. In many other countries, politicians have for a long time failed to listen to the unrest that has occurred among large sections of the population and has helped to create major differences. So I connected this with protectionism. It is not that more protectionism will contribute to less differences and better prosperity in other countries, rather on the contrary. Open markets and the widest possible free trade are those that have brought millions of people out of poverty most quickly. But it is therefore the responsibility of national politicians around the world to facilitate the distribution of the wealth that belongs to each country as much as possible to the inhabitants. We have succeeded in Norway, unlike many other countries, and that was the difference I tried to draw up in my post. Therefore, we should be proud of the factors that have contributed to keeping the inequalities in Norway down. That's the broad political consensus about, and it's about having broad welfare arrangements that benefit everyone, we're going to have a society that allows everyone to participate. These are features of the Norwegian economy, which is a strength for us, which allows more people to participate, and which keeps the trust in society at a high level. This is a move we're going to take care of. So once again we see an attempt to construct a debate on inequality that is strictly not prominent in Norway. But it is one of the drivers of the political developments seen in the United States, in the United Kingdom, in a number of other countries in Europe, simply because politicians over time have underestimated the flows in their own societies. I do not think we should do that in Norway, which is why it is important to take care of broad, good welfare systems, which are widely agreed that we should do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e833	The political analysis of the Minister of Finance at the end here is quite correct. Many politicians in many countries have underestimated the flows resulting from increasing inequality. But what the Minister of Finance wants us to do is that right in Norway, where inequalities have increased faster than the average in the OECD over the last 20-30 years, right in Norway, where Siv Jensen happens to be the finance minister and sits with the power itself, no flows due to inequality exist that can be overlooked. Just Norway is the exception. To prove this, the Minister of Finance lists a number of welfare arrangements, tripartite cooperation and strong trade movement — in short, all the political arrangements the Progress Party has fought against throughout its political existence. It's incredibly fascinating to listen to. As evidence that inequality is not a major problem in Norway, the Minister of Finance takes on his social-democratic clothes and is almost heard as Gerhardsen here stands, as busy as she is in distributing the profits generated in the Storting, as much as possible. But in practice, she increases the child supplement for disabled dependants, so that last year 367 families were taken from several tens of thousands of dollars each on average. In practice, she ensures that the majority of the country's pensioners get lower purchasing power three years in a row, and then compensates for it with tax cuts that benefit the richest and that 200,000 pensioners do not enjoy. In practice, the same Minister of Finance cuts precisely into the arrangements that are intended to protect some of the weakest here in society. Because inequality is not a problem in Norway, here we have to allow ourselves some tax cuts to the richest. Here we must be able to allow ourselves a little petty and brutal cut to some of those who need it the most. Because precisely in Norway, inequalities do not increase, as the Minister of Finance has said. And we know that we need to listen more to the leader of the Progress Party than to the Technical Calculation Committee, the OECD, the International Monetary Fund and all the printed documents the government has ever given up, where it says that inequality is increasing. I do not think that during this period we are going to see the country's finance minister come up to the pulpit and say what all the other politicians in this Chamber agree on, namely that there is no doubt that the differences in Norway are increasing. There is no doubt that the housing in Norway is overpriced. There is no doubt that we are soon passing hundreds of thousands of children in persistent low incomes. Rather, we should listen to the Minister of Finance, who is proud and happy that parties other than the Progress Party have built a society worth being proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e840	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e869	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from the member of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should speak at a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e880	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. There is an overall committee that is behind much of the vote – including this year. The year’s treatment of the fund notification is, in its own right, a conclusion to this Stortingen’s work on the management of the world’s largest state pension fund. There have been four years, four fund notifications — and many exciting debates and themes. The working party is proud of the gradual development of the management of the fund. And there's a lot that's happened in the Storting in this period. One has amended organisation of the Ethics Council decided to withdraw the fund from coal companies; the establishment of new expectations documents, such as on human rights and taxation; adjusted organisation of property investments And now the share capital is increased to 70 pst. Some claim that the treatment of this year's fund notification does not have the major issues. It may say the most about the importance of coagulant treatment in recent years. But I mean anyway, one this year has to see all these four years in context. This year, the oil fund is 21 years old. That means that the fund will be allowed to buy liquor – I have noticed that the Christian People's Party will put an end to this liquor purchase, but the Progress Party in the government may have had a counter-effect. I record that the fund has already secured a massive stock of alcohol on the stock market before the age of 21. But luckily, it's not a 21-year-old rigged for party and irresponsible risk. A teenage period has been set. The time for massive transfers from parents – here the Ministry of Finance – is over. Now the fund is going to be more self-sufficient. That is why we are also making some necessary changes this year to rig the fund for the 'hard 20s'. The share capital is the decision most relevant to the return and the risk to the fund. Both the majority of the Mork Committee and the Bank of Norway have recommended an increase in the share of the shares, and the Workers' Party supports an increase in the share of the SPU strategic reference index to 70 pst. The Mork Committee’s advice is that the ability to carry risks has increased since the previous assessment, including: based on the experience gained in the management of the financial crisis by the Stoltenberg government. At the same time, this grip increases the risk of large fluctuations in the value of the fund. This must be taken more into account in the work of the State budget. The rule of action is changed by adjusting the expected return down to 3 pst. The huge phase-in of oil money by the right-hand Party government shows that this alone is not enough. This is why the Workers' Party, when dealing with the perspective message, says that we will consider formalising an additional rule to the rule of action that helps to smooth the phase-in over time, so that the fluctuations in the fund value do not result in undesirable fluctuations in the use of money over the state budget. We have also moved on to the discussion on unlisted infrastructure. New reports, recommendations and assessments have provided useful information. The unlisted infrastructure market for SPU is small, but growing. The working party has always thought that we should hurry carefully, and be clear that the discussion about unlisted infrastructure is closely linked to the ongoing work of the Gädrem Committee. Next year, Stortinget will also receive a thorough 4-year review, and it is therefore natural to come back to this issue, on the extension of the infrastructure universe, in the near future. I also noticed that the government announced a new assessment of whether it should be opened for unlisted share investments. That's an assessment we're looking forward to. In a short time, the Gedrem committee will also present its work. Among other things, there will be: different models for the organisation of the fund are highlighted and the Workers' Party looks forward to such an overall discussion about the organisation of the fund. That's what's needed. In 2016, the Stortinget government also gave a clear message to explain its work on investing in government bonds. The statement from NBIM and the government shows that extensive management work is also being done within these investments. It's positive, what has come up about a new move to increase transparency, and we will also follow this work in the years to come. At the same time, we strengthen the work as an owner. We now have an expected tax document in place, and we have great expectations that this work will also lead to it. The size will continue to follow closely the follow-up to this work. The reporting has become much better, but we will continue to make demands. In this respect, the Workers' Party believes it is natural to support SV's resolve on case No. 3 – i.e. the proposal for a representative – to ensure that the purpose of the two important conventions is also taken into account in the administration. The same applies to the important work we are now doing around the extraction from coal companies. There is every reason to honour the good, thorough and timely work that NBIM has done to follow up the Storting decision. I am impressed by that, but this work is not over. In the coming years, we need to improve and strengthen this decision, and we need to continue our work towards the overall goal of getting the oil fund out of the coal. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation and attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e929	This year's treatment of State pension funds abroad and also the activities of State pension funds Norway follows in many ways the same lines as those that have been in existence for several years. These are the lines the representative Tvedt Solberg says he is proud of on behalf of the Workers' Party. I think he can be proud on behalf of the whole Biggest, at least the great majority. The changes made to management strategies and other conditions are always gradual. They are knowledge-based and evidence-based, and they are carried out within a responsible framework. That is why I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for this year, who has led the work in an excellent way, and who has made it easy for the government parties to join the main points of view in his presentation. This means, among other things: that the focus and emphasis of the fund as a financial investor is fixed, that the objectives of maximum returns in the context of moderate risk remain firm. This has a close and clear connection to our budgets and to maintaining the welfare society we have. At the same time, the State shall be a responsible investor, and there shall be transparency about the fund, which has become increasingly important and better, and which, in my view, is well maintained. In addition, as mentioned at the outset, all these choices are well anchored in the Storting, as in the examination of the notification of the year. Sometimes you can get the impression in the media, which obviously is very interested in both the management of the fund and not least its results, that it sometimes goes badly. Actually, it doesn't. The average return since 1998 has been directly below 6 p.m., and it shows that investment in the world’s business life keeps up a steady and good return over time. It also shows that changing the oil and oil wealth into parts of the world's companies has been very wise. We have also been helped by a number of other things, not least the fund's size, which makes it possible to invest countercyclically part of the Norwegian krona. All in all, we've had good results through both skill and maybe some good results. The fourth year's result was seen as 6.9 pst. before deducting administrative expenses. The fund was up for 7 500 billion at the turn of the year. NOK and has grown to over 8 000 billion. Enough since that time. Not least this means that investment strategies can be maintained over time even in times of decline. That is precisely what has also been an important issue in the assessment of the extensions of shares made in connection with this treatment. The right and government parties support the extension to 70 pst. It is recommended by the Mork Committee and is supported by the Bank of Norway itself. This too has been a process that has gone over time, which is knowledge- and fact-based, although knowledge and facts may not always be enough to see the future development of the world's stock exchanges and companies. But to reduce this risk, phase-in will take place over time. I'm glad that there's a large majority who agree that this is the right way to do it, also given the low-interest market that the world is currently seeing, and which makes it difficult to keep the yield of the fund up at the level we want. There has also been a long discussion about whether the fund should invest in unlisted infrastructure. The fund has gone into property, and then it has wanted to spread the risk and look at it by entering into unlisted infrastructure. Otherwise, no majority wants this. We had a round when the message was submitted last year. We asked the department to take a new round. The McKinsey report presented in the context of this year's communication seems to me to be well-informed about the areas in question by large sections of the Committee, namely the political risks involved, the regulatory risks involved, and not least: what is the risk of entering unlisted infrastructure? In this context, it is likely that there will have to be greater participation, and public authorities will be part of the investment on the other hand, i.e. on the regulatory side, and can regulate profitability through policy decisions. Norway itself is not entirely alienated from having been in that situation, among other things. The gas joint case. We should know it pretty well. Moreover, negotiability could be somewhat more restrictive, and above all, it would probably be natural to enter the companies on the board, which would be a news for the fund. In view of future risk spreads and returns, unlisted investments in infrastructure could in the long term be an alternative, but we think it is right to slow this down a little, not least we have an implementation of the new share to be invested in, and a review to the next year of the four-year review that always takes place with the strategies will be important. I really didn't intend to be very politically rhetorical here, but I can't really avoid it, because also in this case, the Workers' Party spokesman talks about "the huge use of oil money by the government". Earlier today, we have heard that it is “unhindered”, and it is also “recorded”. It's at all exposed to an adjective on the negative side that has nothing to do with the facts of the world. What's fact -- and you don't have to be a macro-economic or a mathematician to figure out -- is that it's phased in 600 billion. oil crowns in the Norwegian budgets during the last four-year period. Through its alternative budgets, the Labour Party has used approximately 559 B.C.E. oil crowns, and then I'm a little benevolent to their experimental calculations in some of the alternative budgets. That's the difference that we're describing here today with a wide pen. I get completely flat if it turns out that my calculation, which is based on just simple basic education skills -- subtraction, addition, etc. – turns out to be wrong. But if they are, I would very much like to hear it. In addition, it is a simple calculation to find out how much the working party and their possible partners will increase taxes by each year, because they have also been quite clear about that. This is not part of the debate on SPU, it's just a point of contact, but SPU, a return, has to do with the welfare community, with the budgets, with the phase-in of financial policy, and therefore, if not otherwise, it's a matter of being fairly correct with the calculations you're presenting. I realize it's okay with rhetorical calculations, but you should be a little careful. In addition, I have noticed that the representative Tvedt Solberg uses the term ‘hard 20’ in the years that are coming. I think you should be a little careful to compare the 2020s that are coming soon, with those that we had almost 100 years ago. Fortunately, there is soon no one who can confirm that there is a significant difference, but still.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e946	The annual communications on the State pension fund discuss the basis for managing an important part of our common wealth. Long-term and good management facilitates the benefit of petroleum wealth both today's and future generations, for the Norwegian state has gradually gone from being an oil state to becoming a financial state, and the return from SPU's foreign placements exceeds the country's net cash flow from oil and gas. Therefore, it is essential to be faithful to the fund’s investment objectives for the highest possible return within a moderate risk. The Oil Fund should be managed in such a way that Norway can continue to invest in roads, railways and other infrastructure in the future. Our job is to provide the highest possible return to moderate risk, and then we have to be careful to come up with so many political and well-meaning limitations that future pension obligations are sacrificed on the altar of ideology. I will give tribute to the rapporteur, who has been able to establish an agreement on the most important aspects of the notification. The Progress Party believes that the government's preliminary conclusion not to invest our savings in foreign infrastructure is reasonable. This year, we're changing both the expected yield and the share, and then it's a wise choice and a wise approach not to make any further changes to the mandate in this round. Investment in unlisted infrastructure could challenge the organisation to an even greater extent, both because it is a relatively small market, there is a demand for large holdings with low liquidity, there is a risk of political instability and regulatory changes, and not least significant risk of reputation. In addition, in the case of unlisted investments, the ownership interest in each investment will generally be high and there will be greater risks in itself, while high transaction costs and lower marketability will make it difficult to sell out of unlisted investments if problems arise. Should we first invest in infrastructure, I think we should rather look at the possibility of using more of our oil wealth to invest at home in Norway. I think very few see the logic of investing in port projects in Nigeria. I would rather develop our freight and fishing ports along the coast. Investing in Norwegian infrastructure will be better, as it will provide better housing and work regions, stimulate growth and development in new industries, make it socially viable and at the same time benefit both us and future generations. I'm afraid that if we start using the oil fund for politics and international moralism, it will be at the expense of returns and increase the risk of not spreading the risk equally well. Lower returns will mean higher taxes or lower welfare for future generations. I understand that it may be tempting to use the Fund to achieve other policy objectives, whether it is development or foreign policy or climate, because such leadership appears to be free in the short term and does not require any funding from the State budget. However, on such objectives, such as: withdrawing the oil fund from alcohol, which has been mentioned several times in recent years, results in only 0,1 pst. lower returns, yes, that means about 8 billion. kr per year. And what are we going to get left with for that? Nothing. There will probably be no less alcohol consumption even if the oil fund sells itself out of these companies. The Fund has not been served with ever-changing signals from the different majority in the UK, and clear orders must be made to the Bank of Norway, on the basis that the main strategy and objectives of the Fund must be well anchored in a broad political majority. The Fund should not be seen as a policy instrument for Norwegian interests but as a long-term investor with a strategy for the highest possible return on moderate risk. If we are to continue to have a broad majority on the overall objectives of the Fund, we are likely to have to refrain from the temptation to use the Fund to achieve other policy objectives. We need to protect the fund so that it can still make money to fund well-being – today and for future generations. The alternative can rapidly become higher taxes and less well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e959	Thank you to the rapporteur, who gave a good description of what is the majority position. I think a total increase is very satisfied with the management of both the State pension fund abroad and the State pension fund inland in 2016. These are results, but I also want to add for myself to the ownership exercise that both the SPU and the People's Security Fund have stood for, and that we notice. It has been said that we are now opening to go up to 70 pst. in the case of shares, and I only agree with what has been said in the past about assessing them. That's why I'm taking the time to say something about the points where we have different views from the majority. It has been said from both the case rapporteur and others that the issue of investment in non-listed infrastructure projects has been discussed, and I also hear the arguments for not opening it up now. This was an order from the committee, and I understand that the majority would rather wait until next year's notice. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we believe that the professional recommendation of the Bank of Norway and the reduced expert group on the possibility of a better relationship between returns and risks by opening up investments in non-listed infrastructure outweighs the objections expressed by the majority of the population. Our proposal also provides opportunities for investment in unlisted renewable energy infrastructure, and also in poor countries, as we have mentioned earlier. This can not only give the fund a return and spread of risks, it can also contribute more to development and benefit the entire population than investments in the country's stock markets. So let me say: we do not take lightly the uncertainty that is highlighted, and the political and regulatory risk posed by the government and the majority. It is therefore our aim that if this is adopted, we should step forward, with small investments and in developed countries, with a high degree of certainty at first, in order to gain experience and build up skills. We think it's the right way to go, so in the long run, to be able to move into emerging economies, along with institutions like the IMF and the World Bank to reduce risk. As part of the responsible management, own mandates for environmental investments in the oil fund were put in place in 2009 to meet the same risk return requirements as the rest of the management. The current mandate states that environmental investment will amount to between 30 and 60 billion. kr. At the end of 2016, the fund invested 63.7 billion. kr in such mandates. We propose a certain increase in the framework of these environmental mandates, but note that the majority will not be involved. Then there is a distributed proposal in the Chamber of the Socialist Left to ensure that the purposes of certain conventions are included in the management of the Fund. We had this in the hearing, and I noticed, for example. that the national human rights institution of Norway said the following: ‘Such representation could cause confusion if reference is made to any relevant conventions and not to others’.» I would therefore ask the SV to consider doing this rather as a transmission proposal, so that the government can look at it. We can, not least, assess exactly this aspect, which I think is a point – otherwise we have to consider setting up other important conventions as well. I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party alone, and of those we stand with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e981	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e986	I choose to keep a short post. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus on how to manage the large values we have in the State pension fund abroad and in the People's Security Fund. I'm concerned that we're going to make gradual and knowledge-based changes. It may be that we support proposal No. 2, which is on the table, but it has not been to committee, and we have not discussed it. I am opposed to the fact that, in such a big case, about such great economic values, we are going to come up with solutions that may change policy. This may not do so, but I want you to take your time, discuss it, discuss it and do it wisely. Then we come back again to another round next spring. This is how we have made changes in the state pension fund abroad in the past. We've placed orders, for example. for coal early in the period, where we have gone several rounds – and then the policy has changed. We have a conservative approach to the fund. Nevertheless, on the basis of the recommendations that have been made, we support an increase in the share. There's been a long process, there's been a lot of doubt about it too, because you have to have a careful approach. Finally, a broad majority is also behind it. I think that is wise with changing state governments and changing governments – that we are making these gradual steps and experience. When we increased the share with the previous government, there was also uncertainty among some parties as to whether it was wise. Actually, that's good, that's also now, that someone is asking questions, and that we're discussing it. So let's change that. It turned out that it was wise then, we think it's also wise now – if we're going to be able to achieve a target of 3 pst. returns to be used to finance Norwegian public welfare. Finally, I take up the proposal of the Centre Party in the setting. We are voting against proposal No. 2, not on the assumption that we might be against it, but on the assumption that it should be more determined before we take a final position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e999	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1004	8 B.C.E. SEK, 1.5 million. kr to each of the Nordics – the value of the oil fund has been formidable, much greater than what we believed only a few years ago. And we are, in spite of the economically more unstable times around us, very ludicrous silence. There are a lot of people who are going to be honored, both here in the house, different governments and not least those who are set to manage our common wealth every day. When we discuss the management of the oil fund, we naturally tend to focus on what we want to change, which in the big picture is often as small, and perhaps not so much on what has been done. Therefore, it is important, as the previous speaker also did, to appreciate those who have done a good job. Overall, the management of the oil fund works very well. It is a reasonable good return; it is a good guidance for the management, which has been ever better, and it is largely open about investment and management. It's all basically good. The question is whether it can be even better, if there is any reason to spend more time on it. The answer to the left is of course yes. Better is always possible, to use the words of the Canadian Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau. The main change that results from the management message of the year is that the share is increased to 70 pst. There is a proposal on the left that supports under some doubt. We assume that this does not lead to an increase in the degree of stock-taking, but to a further development and strengthening of an active index management. It is worth noting that SPU now has a much larger share than other relevant funds it is natural to compare with. I also believe that there are relevant countermeasures that are travelled by the minority in the Mork selection. In this way, I also refer to the proposal from the Left in the treatment of the perspective message, which we have just discussed, to align the action rule more closely to the annual returns in the fund, and not just to the size of the fund. It's a pretty big paradox that the government actually announces that a next year's announcement will open so that the SPU can invest in unlisted axles, but at the same time closes the door to unlisted infrastructure. Of course, there may be risks associated with investments in unlisted infrastructure, but I think the majority take the least resistance when a person does not want to open up to this now – especially when a person does not want to take part in the very good proposal from the Left and SV that instead of opening up to unlisted infrastructure in general, an opening for unlisted investments should be made only within the existing environmental mandate, i.e. unlisted investments in renewable technologies and renewable energy infrastructure. I have to say that I look forward to hearing the foundation for why this should be so difficult – both from the government party and from the Labour Party. There is a high need and potential for investment in green technology and renewable energy. Renewable energy investments will also represent a spread of risks, given that both the Norwegian economy and the oil fund are significantly exposed to fossil energy. From this point of view, it is important to intensify efforts to reduce exposure to fossil energy. Climate change is an open-ended threat to the Fund’s long-term return. In particular, investments in the fossil industry are risky. The experience of extracting coal is, in my view, inconclusively positive and has given valuable experience of switching to this work. The left is in the configuration of the proposer on several proposals that would result in an even better management of the SPU. Some of them I've already been in. The others are about better ethical guidelines for government bonds, the rights of indigenous peoples, the fight against tax avoidance and nuclear weapons. I record that one in the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that the administration is basically perfect. Finally, I take up the suggestions in the two options we are currently handling where the Left is a co-applicant, and where the suggestions have not already been taken up by others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1027	The representative of Terje Breivik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1033	The management of the state pension fund abroad has always been subject to yes, perhaps somewhat more subversive arguments than we see in many other debates, and it has not been so many years since a prime minister – I should not mention which party – stood here on the pulpit and hasselled with the very idea of having some ethical extraction criteria for the oil fund. We can't draw ourselves out of everything SV doesn't like, was the tone at that time. Now it turns out that we can draw the oil fund out of quite a lot of SV doesn't like, not because SV or our ideas are the point here, but because as a community we agree on norms for what's tricked and what's not good at placing our money in. The representative of the Progress Party may call it moralism, but that moralism extends all the way to the office of Finance Minister Siv Jensen, such as. as a result of this policy, for the first time as a Minister of Finance, it is quite clear that the settlements on the West Bank are incompatible with international law. So one gets to say that the ethical guidelines for the state pension fund abroad have led many people to learn a little about politics and the world around them. In order for some to have a conservative approach and slowly make changes to the oil fund, some have to be drivers of these changes, which may initially be seen as dramatic, risky and radical, but, as we all know, in a few years will be something that all the parties join here on the Stortinget. That is why I fully agree with Mr Breivik's reflections, for example. climate and the proposals related to the production of nuclear weapons, and I also want to mention the proposals for greater transparency on our management of the State pension fund abroad, for example. AIFMs should publish themes related to the different expected documents that are addressed in the meetings with the companies with which they belong. Many other funds do, and we would have earned the State pension fund to be managed abroad according to that principle. The same applies to increased efforts to withdraw our savings from secret law and tax havens. It is a very good first step with the expectation document on taxes that the fund has put in place, and I want to praise that. It's good, but it's still a way to make sure that we don't contribute to making a practice that rewards other countries for absolutely necessary tax revenues that provide everything from police, infrastructure and defence to well-being and health care for their citizens. Finally, I fully agree that there can be good reasons not to refer to very specific Convention texts in the ethical guidelines for investment. That is why I have promoted this loose proposal, proposal No. 2, precisely because it is the purpose of these Conventions to be respected. I have to say, I am a little surprised at the explanation of vote by the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, not least given that on page 29 of the vote, it appears that the same parties are the proposers for a proposal relating to the same conventions which go further in their text than the solution proposed by me. The only difference is related to the human rights expectation document and not to the ethical guidelines for investment. It is always the case that the representative Schlagsvold Vedum has a conservative approach to the ethical guidelines, but not to the expectations documents that form the basis for our ownership dialogue with the companies in which we invest. In that it is probably an internal logic, but I have to admit that I have problems following it, and therefore I address the proposal. It's often nice with transmission proposals to the government, and we could maybe cash it in as a sort of saying. But knowing that there are elections in September, and that the government has a lot to think about, I suspect that nothing will happen to this proposal in particular within that time. I assume that the probability of having this proposal implemented by a new majority as soon as the Stortingen reassembled in October is significantly greater. I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1048	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1053	The state pension fund abroad is an impressive idea, and it's done an impressive job of managing it, a great pleasure for the Norwegian people. But that doesn't mean we can't further develop the idea and the tool. The most important step in this further development is to take on board the fact that investing 8 000 billion. It is not a political act that is taking place around the global market. Investing $8,000 billion. kr in the general market is to invest in ‘business as usual’. ‘Business as usual’ is, as we know, a direction towards world development and the economic development of the world which is not consistent with what must be contained in the future and which is expressed by the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement. We have to assume that the State pension fund abroad – whether we control it or not – is a tool that has consequences. It has consequences for the climate, it has consequences for sustainability, it has consequences for world development. As a result, it is natural that we should continue the discussion: how do we actively use this fund to achieve the goals we are contributing to the development of the world and to the development of Norway? This is not at all contrary to the assumption that the State pension fund abroad will provide returns to the Norwegian people. It is not at all contrary to the assumption that it is the fund's administrators to manage it and not day-to-day decisions in the Storting. On the contrary, there is a contradiction between taking over where the benefits should and must be in the future. They must be in a sustainable market. Therefore, we must increasingly target this fund to both create the sustainable market by investing in it and reaping the yield we want from the sustainable markets. That is why the Greens are tabling two proposals today. One proposal is to name the State pension fund abroad to Norway's future fund and give it a mandate to generate returns to the Norwegian people by investing in such a way as to contribute to the achievement of the UN's sustainability objectives and the Paris Agreement. The second thing we are proposing is to ask the government to develop a strategy for phasing out investments in fossil energy and for the pension fund to be fossil-free by 2020. There are still investigations and assessments that point out that the carbon risk that is also in the pension fund is a significantly higher risk for the future, reputation and return of this fund than moving into what is proposed by more people, namely to start investing in sustainable infrastructure around the world market, which is in the long term where money will be made, and which is in the long run what is the prerequisite for us to have a world that is good to live in in in 10, 20 and 30 years. I'll bring it up to you the suggestions I've made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1070	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1075	State pension funds are our common savings funds. They must benefit both current and future generations, and the savings resources must be well managed so that we can achieve the highest possible returns within acceptable risk. The administration shall also be transparent, responsible, long-term and broadly politically anchored. The investment strategy implies that we spread risks by owning a small share in a large number of companies and debt securities. This strategy has served us well. The Bank of Norway and the Public Resources Fund have established competent organisations. They have delivered good results at low costs both in 2016 and over time. This year’s Communication discusses several important themes. The Committee's position shows broad support for the broad lines of the strategy and the framework for the Fund, and I am pleased about that. Good and long-term management requires broad opening up and trust in the way the fund is managed. A central theme in this year's notification is the share of State pension funds abroad. This is the main decision for the expected return and risk in the fund. It has been a thorough and good process, and I am pleased that a broad political majority supports the government's assessments. It is a prerequisite for increasing the share capital to 70 pst. At the same time, let me stress that an increase in the share does not involve an increase in active risk-taking in the fund. The framework for deviation from the reference index does not change. Then the government in this year's report has also assessed whether SPU should be able to invest in unlisted infrastructure. As last year, there has been a lot of commitment on this topic. Let me remind you again that this is not a climate issue, but a matter of the facility and risk in the management of the fund. In assessing investments in unlisted infrastructure, we need to have a financial starting point. The government did not allow such investments to be opened at this time. It's because we believe an open and politically anchored state fund that ours is not well suited to bear particular risk from such investments. A majority of the Committee agrees with these assessments and supports the conclusion not to open up investments in unlisted infrastructure now. At the same time, I have noted the Committee's wish to return to the problem in the light of ongoing work and further market developments. Several other issues are mentioned in this year’s report. At the request of the Financial Committee, we have assessed the guidelines for the Fund’s investment in government bonds. The Government proposes to strengthen the framework through two changes to the mandate. In the last year, the responsible management of the SPU has been strengthened by a new expectation document on transparency in international corporate taxation and two new climate-related criteria in the guidelines on observation and exclusion. I am pleased that the Financial Committee supports this work. I have also noted the Committee's interest in the follow-up to the new expectation document. More work is in progress or is under way. I would like to mention in particular the Gedrem Committee, which assesses the central bank law and the governance structure of the Bank of Norway. The committee shall have a time limit which shall be set by 30 June. Finally, several governments and magnifications have helped to shape the strategy of the fund. We're going to build on that. With good and long-term governance and broad political support, the Fund will be able to support the financing of our common well-being for many generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1094	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1099	The representative, Steffensen, spoke eagerly in his article about more investment in Norwegian infrastructure. It reminds me a little bit about the Progress Party in opposition. Then there was a very ambitious one in what you thought about managing the fund. One would spread the administration across the country, one would invest in Norwegian infrastructure, and one would return to investment in tobacco and landmines. In my post, I looked back at the four years we've had behind us in this magnification period, and at the grips we've been doing in government. My question to the Council of State – or perhaps party leader Siv Jensen – is: Is she satisfied with the success of the Progress Party in the management of the SPU in view of the ambitions of the Progress Party in opposition in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1106	I am very pleased with the proposals put forward by the government to the Stortinge during this period and have received broad support from the Stortinge, which has helped us to have a very solid fund, which reaps great recognition throughout the world for its openness and responsible administration. It's precisely because we manage the fund well, that we can draw a return from the fund every year that we can use to invest in our own country. I would like to remind the representative Tvedt Solberg that the government has just presented a national transport plan that is quite ambitious – 1 000 billion. kr invested in infrastructure in the next few years. I think it harmonizes quite well with the fact that both I and others in the Progress Party have expressed over the years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1111	I also listened with interest to the main article of the Progress Party and got the closest impression that only you made money, that was okay. Then we know that the risk profile of the fund is the same, and we also have an ethical framework for our investments. I would like confirmation that the government believes that an ethical framework for the investments we make is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1116	Now I think I should remind the representative Syversen of which parties took the initiative in the ethical guidelines for the management of the fund. One of those parties was the Progress Party in opposition because we thought it might be a good idea to draw up a framework for ethical guidelines. It turns out to work well. However, it should be high to include new areas, new markets, new products in the guidelines. It is true that every year we receive proposals from individual parties in the United Kingdom to extend the ethical guidelines. I think we should be careful to do that, and we should be very aware that with a global fund that invests a small share in so many companies, we need to make sure that we have a good and broad investment universe to invest in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1123	The left is, of course, agreed with the Minister that investment in unlisted infrastructure is a financial issue, but not in its conclusion. I have two brief questions for the Minister of Finance: 1st@item: inlistbox Is the Minister of Finance initially in favour of changing the investment mandate of the SPU to cover also unlisted axles? 2nd@item: inlistbox When or what criterion do we have to fulfil in order that the Minister of Finance thinks it makes sense to invest in unlisted infrastructure, all the time the government says it is not the right time now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1133	I have taken the initiative in this year's notice to explore the possibility of investing in unlisted shares on a more general basis. But it has to be investigated first. I think it's premature for me to draw a conclusion at this point about what will be an appropriate delimitation or arrangement of it, but I think it's right to have it evaluated, simply because it's a growing market to be able to invest in. Then, on two occasions, we have considered the issue of unlisted infrastructure and both of them reached the same conclusion, namely that time is not right now. It is mainly due to the fact that there is too much political risk associated with it for a fund like ours. So I notice that many of the strongest cancers that are driving you to open this up have completely different intentions than thinking about long-term management, thinking about returns relative to moderate risk. It's an honest thing to mean it, but I disagree with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1140	For a whole year out of the Minister of Finance's government period, the Progress Party had its own website where it could be estimated how much else one could get for the oil fund if one had spent the money on welfare in Norway instead of having a long-term administration. This site no longer exists. At the same time, we heard a long speech from the representative Steffensen on behalf of the Progress Party describing how the fund should not interfere with more moralism. I almost just have to ask: is the Progress Party in the Government engaged in a long-term and responsible management of the Oil Fund, or will the Advance Party continue to spend as much of the money as possible now? That's the first question. The second question is: Does the Minister of Finance think that ethical guidelines for the oil fund are based on moralism, or does the Minister of Finance disagree with the fiscal figures of the Progress Party in the characteristics of the management of the fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1145	To the last one, I actually replied to that in the last line exchange. It was the Progress Party together with SV among others. which took the initiative to establish the Ethical Guidelines for the Fund. They were bounded, and I think they should be, because if they are extended to be a whole series of exceptions, it limits the fund's investment horizon, and it destroys some of the purpose of having ethical guidelines. So I think we're going to be careful when it comes to change. As regards the management of the fund and the phase-in of oil money, I do not think there is any contradiction in that at all. The prerequisite for phased oil money into the Norwegian economy is that we manage the fund well. So let's do that. It's a fund that invests, that grows, that produces good results, and that allows us to phase oil money into the Norwegian economy for a wide range of good purposes. But this government has kept what was the original goal, to invest in growth-promoting measures far more than what the previous government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1152	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1157	As the rapporteur for the draft representative on the rights of indigenous peoples in the guidelines for the state pension fund abroad, I would first like to make a few comments on this proposal. Proposals wish to include a reference to the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights and to International Labour Organization Convention No. 169, which is referred to as ILO 169, as the basis for SPU’s ethical guidelines on investment. I believe that we must be able to assume that we are politically committed to safeguarding the rights of indigenous peoples, and that there is nothing in the attitude or in the comments that warrants anything else. On the contrary, it is important that the rights of indigenous people are respected and respected. The question concerns the need to express this explicitly with a reference to a convention to which Norway has acceded. The Ministry of Finance has established guidelines for the observation and exclusion of companies from the SPU on the basis of products and behaviour, and under this point there are also serious or systematic violations of human rights or other particularly serious violations of fundamental ethical standards. These guidelines do not refer to conventions to which Norway has acceded, nor do we consider it appropriate to refer to some human rights or conventions rather than others. Therefore, the majority of the Right and the Committee do not support the proposal. For our part, this also applies to the loose proposal that has been promoted in the Chamber today by SV of the representative Serigstad Valen. The national pension fund abroad shall not be a political or foreign policy instrument. That is the broad consensus. The fund shall provide the best possible return within moderate risk, but the size of the fund shall make it apparent in itself, as well as the way in which the fund operates in the market, means something and gives signal effects. It is positive that Norway’s Bank has drawn up expectations documents in several important areas – on both human rights, climate change, water management, children’s rights and now also on transparency in international corporate taxation. Many companies look to the standard State pension fund abroad for its investments. Much of the discussion related to this year's fund notification is about the issue of whether SPU should be able to invest in unlisted infrastructure. I'm glad that the majority doesn't want to open up this now, although I see that there can be good profit opportunities within this area. McKinsey, in his report, as they have written on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, has well explained the matter. They make visible how this type of investment allows the fund, and thus Norway, to be exposed to a higher degree of reputational risk. Investments in unlisted infrastructure are also likely to require the fund to take larger ownership positions and to involve itself more actively in the management of those ownership positions. It will itself require more administration and resources linked to the day-to-day operation of the Fund. This type of investment is usually natural monopolies or quasi-monopoles, such as. power networks, energy installations and roads, and have a completely different focus from that of governments and communities than other types of investment. This means that this type of investment, for example: has a significant political risk and regulatory risk. We don't have to go far to see examples of this kind of risk. In Oslo there is a legal proceedings in those days in which several of the owners of Gassled, the gas pipeline system on the base, are bringing an action against the State of Norway for a change in the tariffs for the transport of gas on the base. The risk of reputation is also greater than for other types of investment. The reputation of the project itself may be at stake, but it may also apply to any co-investors with whom the same category is soon to be introduced. And if something unforeseen and unfavorable happens, it's not necessarily a simple matter to sell out of these projects. In the infrastructure market, both sales practices and frameworks are less standardised and more demanding than investments in listed projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1176	Then we give the floor to Torstein Tvedt Solberg, before Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1181	I would first like to thank you for a good debate and apologize to the SV. I didn't mean to snitch. I would just like to make a few comments to the representative for the fleet's posts. He hung himself remarkably in what I said about 'the hard 20s'. And just to be clear, it wasn't the 1920s I talked about -- I don't think any of us want to go back to -- but the fund's 20 years. This year we show that it's been 21 years since the first transfer, and that's what my point was. We now see a whole new reality for the fund, and I think that is best described in the 2017 state budget, where the Right-Fremskritspart-government with the Fleet in the head picks out 20 billion. kr more oil money, but in the same document says that one from 2018 can only phase in 4 billion. kr more. That's what I call an emergency stop. The representative Fleet was very busy with plus and minus. 16 B.C.E. kr in difference means I'm a huge number. One might have to be a member of the Right to think that 16 billion. kr is small and negligible. I find it a pity that one does not see that this government has a higher phase of oil money than the previous government, and that one cannot see this, perhaps shows that the Right once and for all has left the responsibility for which they were previously known. I must remind the representative Fleet that Siv Jensen is the first finance minister to have taken a withdrawal from the fund, and that this government has effectively reduced the scope for action to future governments and weakened the future possibility of conversion. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1190	In many cases, indigenous peoples have a different perspective and a different basis of interest to that of the majority population. That's what we see all over the world, by the fact that indigenous people, often with life as an effort, are fighting for their livelihoods. What is forest too high with investor gazes is both a feeding room, a living space and a burial place for those who live there – and have done so infinitely that they don't even have papers that the forest belongs to them. What's water for regulation in a company strategy, it's a source of drink and food for those who live close to it. What appears to be pristine nature is landscapes that guarantee life and the future for those who live in and out of nature. Just nature and natural resources are inextricably linked to indigenous people’s interests, lifestyles and livelihoods. This is precisely why indigenous people are often treated as serious obstacles to large capital. That's why we have to decide which side we want to stand on. Whether indigenous people are to be protected or whether our investments are actually to be placed on the basis of the lives of others – that is the question. Standing Rock should be an example that made more people able to actually pick the page here. There we see that the demands of indigenous people for clean drinking water and to secure sacred ground are met with gross violence. There we see that water cannons in the cold cause violence on demonstrators, that biting cymbals and percussion weapons meet their demands, and humiliating and dehumanizing infractions, like that people are dressed naked, and that sacred objects such as instruments and jewelry used in prayer are urinated on. I had a meeting with representatives from Standing Rock here at Stortinget. They had a clear message: «We want the people of Norway to know what your money is spent on». There is no reason for us to invest or to invest in a way that deprives others of their future. There's no reason for us to be represented through our investments in something that people see as a war against indigenous people. We could say, not in our name, we choose another way. But here it's clear that the majority wants to put investment ahead of life. Even though many people say that they agree that indigenous people need protection, it's just a party speech when you don't want to guarantee the rights of indigenous people when it actually comes to the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1207	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1236	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1247	We'll be in port much faster than the time of speech. On the same day that we had a hearing on the financial market notification, I became aware of a reader letter from No to the EU in their fatherland friend, where they called for the deletion of the EEA Agreement. They didn't think it would affect any industries other than the financial industry – but it didn't do anything, they wrote, because money moving isn't very productive. There might be something to think about next time we get paid into the account, or there might be something to say to a family whose house and everything they owned, burned up and disappeared, and who – if not otherwise – has been able to restart using their insurance, or to local businesses, who get loans to create jobs across the country. Money moving: not very productive, is it? The financial industry represents 2 pst. of employment, 7 pst. of the value added and is the largest taxpayer in mainland Norway. It is important for Norwegian industry that Norway has a solid financial industry that contributes to value creation in its own sector and that provides funding for value creation in other parts of the economy. Good access to both equity and foreign capital is a prerequisite for financing the necessary conversions for Norwegian business. The financial industries have a key role to play in facilitating such a transformation. The financial industry has itself been an industry that has undergone major changes. It quickly introduced new technologies and could offer better products and services to us as customers. New technology continues to challenge industry and poses both a threat and an opportunity. Therefore, a comprehensive industrial policy is important for the industry, which also takes account of the need for conversion and competitiveness of the financial industry through up-to-date regulation and opportunities. Financial stability is important for confidence in the institutions and the market. An important part of this is that banks and other financial institutions are solid. The financial market notification takes into account the main steps taken or is in the process of being taken by the government on the financial market and is supported by a majority of the Committee. The majority have noted that, after the Ministry of Finance established and continued a temporary regulation on requirements for new loans with mortgages in housing, it has been a dampening of the growth of housing prices, which does not just appear to be continuing, but which is now referred to in the VG as the weakest May month since the beginning of the 2003 measurements. A share-saving account scheme is in place, making it easier for individuals to redistribute savings in shares through the fact that gains on shares are not taxed in the context of realisation, but only when the funds are withdrawn from the account. There is now an opportunity for Norwegian insurance companies to invest private pension capital in insurance promotion and infrastructure, which has been well received. And Norwegian authorities are taking action to facilitate new actors and business models. This contributes to a more diversified and robust provision of financial services, which in turn reduces systemic risk in financial markets. The majority of the Committee would like to welcome the initiative to establish a low-threshold contact point between the authorities and fintech activities, thus supporting and guiding innovative activities in the sector. The EU Capital Requirement Regulation contained a temporary, specific provision on lower capital requirements for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, a so-called SME discount. An objection has been that an SME discount that is not justified by actual risk conditions could have a limited impact on the pricing of loans to small enterprises, but instead weakens the soundness of banks over time. Loan policies and interest rates that do not reflect risk could reverse as increased losses in banks. The Norwegian credit market has worked well and profitable investments have had good access to finance. However, now that the European Commission has evaluated the provision and has proposed to continue it, the government has decided to introduce SME rebates once the Regulation has been incorporated into the EEA Agreement, in order to provide Norwegian banks and financial institutions with capital requirements that are more similar to the rest of Europe. However, it is still important that the Norwegian authorities make demands that Norwegian banks continue to be solid enough to provide finance to business even in economically uncertain times. Finally, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Finance has taken the initiative of setting up a working group to assess possible changes in the regulation of free policies, which can improve the interests of customers. In particular, the rules on profits and buffers are currently under consideration, but it is underlined that it is not appropriate to deprive customers of rights or to weaken their security in order to receive pensions. It is only then to thank the Cooperation Committee and to welcome the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1275	After probably three years of record unemployment, where the share of work has fallen continuously and now is at the lowest level of over 20 years, where growth has been and is low, and where production growth is zero, there are finally some signs of improvement in the Norwegian economy. Historically low interest rates, low crowns and the lowest wage growth of 40 years have given Norwegian companies better conditions. In a time of zero productivity growth, the government and the rest of us can thank responsible parties who have made sure that the gap between productivity growth and real wages growth is not greater. The thoughts go to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance in what I would call an embarrassing VG interview from 2014, where they attacked the previous government because productivity growth had fallen after the financial crisis. In the same interview, the Prime Minister criticised the Workers' Party to promote tripartite cooperation as a feature of the Nordic model. According to Erna Solberg, that was not the most important thing. Perhaps the Prime Minister has become wiser since that time. If the government hasn't exactly succeeded in getting people to work, bringing up the growth of the economy or raising productivity growth, the first line defense in cyclical management, monetary policy, has worked. The value of the krone fall is far more important for Norwegian enterprises than for tax cuts. Tax havens increase differences and contribute minimally to growth. There is cause for concern that unsecured consumer loans account for a strong increase in the total debt of households and, in particular, concern for their consumption debt is below 30 years. They also have the percentage of the highest default. More and more liabilities are granted than they can afford to serve. With a high probability of continuing low interest rates, one must also expect this development to continue if one does not introduce new measures. Responsible lending practices must be complied with. We need a national debt register, so that it is possible for the lender to have an overview of the total debt of the applicant for a loan. The right-wing Party government drew up the proposal for a public debt register, which was submitted by our government, when they took over the government corridors in 2013. We also want a study on the ceiling of interest relating to consumer loans, credit loans, etc. in order to prevent the worst lending actors from acting as today, with sky-high interest rates, which causes particularly vulnerable groups to have problems paying for themselves. Large debt in Norwegian households also affects the financial balance sheet. It is also important, therefore, to prevent unprofessional operators from entering the market and to ensure that the overall level of debt does not become too high. Many countries have introduced caps on interest rates on loans and credit – 14 countries in the EU, for example. Here in the country there are several organisations who know what they're talking about, and who want such an interest rate cap. Also from industry teams are the people who are calling for this. There are good people who will help clean up. That is why, together with the Left, we are promoting a proposal that the government should investigate and propose a model for the introduction of a ceiling on interest rates on consumer loans. The challenge of freedom of the police must be solved. It is necessary to consider making changes to the rules that make it possible to optimise the management of free policies, without the customer having to waive the right to a guaranteed pension. In particular, Finance Norway has long been committed to setting up a Free Police Commission to assess possible solutions. This also seems to us to be a good idea, and we have, together with Left and SV, put in a proposal that such a commission should be set up. The message itself has not said anything about what the government intends to do with this, but we are now informed by the case rapporteur, and it also states in the setting that a working group is being set up. We have also been told that Finans Norway thinks this is a good way to address it. I will wait first what the Minister of Finance might have to say about this before we consider drawing the Commission proposal. The most important thing is not how it is done, but that it is done in a good way, and that those who are to be involved are involved in such a way that they have good opportunities to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1296	Does this mean that the representative does not address that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1301	I'm addressing the two proposals I've mentioned, and then I'm probably going to come back and draw up the proposal for a commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1306	The representative, Tore Hagebakken, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1311	The last thing must be because the representative Hagebakken has very good faith in the case rapporteur and/or the finance minister. We'll see. I don't have so much to add to it as the case rapporteur, and to the extent that Tore Hagebakken expressed it. That covers a lot of the majority comments. That's why I focus on a couple of other things. From the Christian People's Party we are concerned about the housing loan situation. We got new numbers, as mentioned today, which could indicate that the situation in Oslo is at least a little bit muffled. Maybe that's a good reason. I would also like to say that under this majority there have actually been major changes on the tax side to initiate that investments should not go so much to housing beyond the primary dwelling, but rather to transfer investments to other businesses. We've changed the tax on secondary dwellings quite strongly, I think that's also some of the reason why we see the cooling down, as well as the mortgage regulation. The Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party, promotes a proposal to look at core activities versus delimitations to other activities in Norwegian banking and group legislation. After the financial crisis, this was a core point. When banking and financial activities carry out too much other activities, which in turn can cause them considerable losses, it is a matter of whether or not one should focus more on the core business. I'm dealing with that proposal. In the case of free police, we are concerned with what is described in the comment from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, namely the advertised working group to look at changes in the law on free police, so that customers' interests can be strengthened. Finally, this communication also includes some words about our international cooperation. Solid and stable financial markets depend on both national and international. I register our participation in the IMF and the Minister of Finance's guest performance in the G20 context. It could be interesting to hear how the Minister of Finance has experienced it, not least after the Presidential change in the United States. With that I address the proposal I mentioned. I'm just going to say that what was said about investigating and proposing a model for the introduction of caps on consumer loans in Norway, which is behind the Workers' Party and the Left, is a proposal that we have previously been dealing with in Stortinget. The government will come back to that, and that's why we don't vote for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1326	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1331	There is rarely much enthusiasm I debate the annual financial market message. In two areas, the Left receives significant penetration in this round. To date, the left has stood reasonable alone to propose that insurance undertakings be allowed to invest in infrastructure and that Norway introduce the so-called SME discount into the EU. In both of these areas, the Left Government is now coming together. The proposal to remove the rule in the insurance business law that insurance companies cannot hold more than 15 pst. by the axes or lutes of a company in some types of infrastructure, have been heard, and the government has now advised to introduce the SMB discount. Both parts are very happy. However, when it comes to the SME discount, I am concerned that he will not have an effect on banks using internal risk models, the IRB, in order to calculate the capital requirement. IRB banks constitute a significant part of the Norwegian banking market, and for banks using IRB, Norway, as the only European country, enforces a transitional rule, the Basel I floor, as a minimum basis for the calculation of the capital requirement. Under the current floor rule, a Norwegian IRB bank cannot drop the risk weight of a corporate loan below 80 pst. The major banks in Norway are mainly bound by the Basel I floor, and thus the SMB discount will not initially have an effect on these banks and their business customers. As a result, there is a danger that a significant number of Norwegian SMEs will not enjoy the SME discount. In that case, this is very unfortunate and will greatly reduce the positive effect associated with increased access to capital and value creation for business and a level playing field for banks operating in the Norwegian market. A little bit of a matter in the big context, but which illustrates once again the cumbersomeness of the Central Party with the facts: In the setting, the Center Party writes about the SMB discount: ‘This member recalls that the Central Party, sometimes with the support of the Left, has for a long time tried to get the government to introduce this measure.’ I guess so. The left took up the SMB discount for the first time in the autumn of 2013. I myself have written four written questions to the Minister of Finance. We've taken it up in both oral and ordinary question hours a row of times. We have recorded it every year since 2014 in the annual publications on relevant EU/EEA matters, and we have even recorded it in the debate on the subject of the persuasion. I addressed the matter for the first time during the management of the financial market notification in 2013. The centre party was absent. The left proposed to introduce the SME discount during the management of the financial market notification in 2014. The centre party voted against. Only in 2016 is there a trace of commitment from them through a written question from the representative Tingelstad Wøien, dated 2 March 2016. So the Central Party is very commendable to the Left for supporting its proposal for the financial market announcement for 2015 in the same spring. Today, even the Central Party does not even support the Left proposal in the setting we are debating, simply to ensure that the SMB discount applies to all of their banks and business customers. Unfortunately, the so-called long-term struggle of the centre party for the SMB discount is a strong fact-finding candidate – more than a credible commitment to the case. In the beginning, I scolded the government when they met the Left when it comes to the SMB discount. Unfortunately, I am not in favour of the government's handling of the Free Police Company Silver. On several occasions, the Left has expressed scepticism for the rigid treatment of Silver, which the Government has approved under the administration, with the result that customers will lose a large part of the saved freepolises in the form of future pensions. Many people point out that this could and should have our solutions in a more flexible way, including: by giving the company a longer period to meet the capital requirements. Unfortunately, there is little to do with this now, but I hope we avoid the corresponding events in the future. In this way, I look forward to the work that will now be done when it comes to assessing possible changes to the law on law enforcement that can improve customer interests. In it there is also, in my view, some degree of self-criticism. I finally take up the suggestions from the Left in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1351	Then it also includes proposal No. Four from the Center Party and the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1357	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1362	The representative Terje Breivik then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1367	I refer you to the comments of the Central Party on the matter and our proposals, which have already been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1372	The fall in oil prices since the summer of 2014 continues to have an impact on the Norwegian economy and prospects for financial stability. In 2016, total foreign losses on Norwegian banks increased as a result of losses on loans to oil-related industries. However, banks delivered good results and retained profits contributed to banks increasing their core capital and strengthening their soundness in 2016. Norwegian banks are well capitalised on an international scale and are well equipped to withstand loan losses. High household debt is a risk of financial stability in Norway. The growth of debt and housing prices continued in 2016. In December, the Ministry adopted a new Housing Loan Regulation, which will apply until the summer of 2018. We are now seeing signs that the growth of housing prices is decreasing. The market for consumer loans and other unsecured credit is growing rapidly. The government is committed to contributing to the smooth functioning of the consumer loan market. A strong package of measures has therefore been put forward to ensure that developments in this market are sound. This includes the law on debt information, which has been submitted to the Stortinget, as well as stricter rules on the marketing and billing of credit. We also consider further measures. The financial industry is an important industry in the Norwegian economy. The industry offers jobs, often in well paid jobs. The industry is a large taxpayer and an important premiscuous provider of the Norwegian economy. We need well-functioning securities markets, sound financial undertakings and appropriate public schemes that, in total and in interaction with international markets, provide business with a diversified funding offer. Pension providers manage large amounts on behalf of customers. The regulation of the pension area must primarily safeguard the interests of customers by contributing to the security of payment of pensions as promised. So it's important that these values are well managed and channelled into profitable investments. Insurance undertakings and undertakings operating in the infrastructure sector have argued that it is difficult to own certain types of infrastructure because the amount of ownership under the law has been limited to 15 pst. The introduction of more risk-sensitive capital requirements for insurance undertakings through Solvency II means that the need for such a rule is diminished. The Ministry of Finance has therefore asked the Financial Supervisory Authority to assess whether this rule should be terminated. We have received a draft from the supervision regarding the removal of the rule, which we are now sending to the hearing. The low level of interest rates and the increasing life expectancy present challenges for pension providers that have guaranteed customers a certain level of return and a lifetime benefit. With today's low interest rate, risk-free interest rates are lower than the yield guarantees. In such a situation, it is difficult for insurance companies to manage client funds in such a way that they provide returns in addition to the guarantees already given to their customers. The consequence may be that the pension is regulated less than inflation. During the spring we received enquiries from, among others. Finance Norway and employee organisations for which an evaluation of the Code of Conduct for the Management of Free Police has been organised. In response to the enquiries, in April I sent a letter to the social partners expressing my willingness to investigate possible changes that could have a positive effect on customers. Following the letter, the Ministry met with the social partners, the financial industry and the Consumer Council on the framework for the investigation work. It has now been decided to set up a working group with participants from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Financial Supervisory Authority with the aim of achieving a neutral and balanced assessment of the benefits and disadvantages that customers and companies may have from regulatory changes. The social partners, the financial industry and the Consumer Council will be invited to contribute to the investigation through a reference group. New players, new technologies and new business models challenge established players in the financial industry. At the same time, developments create the need for clarifications in areas where existing legislation is based on known business models and production methods. In order to ensure that fintech actors are adequately guided on regulatory issues, we have asked the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority to establish a contact point for the guidance of innovative businesses. The monetary policy regulation was adopted on 29 March 2001. It seems to trust monetary policy in both market players, academic environments and opinion in general. The regulation states that Norway’s Bank’s operational implementation of monetary policy should focus on low and stable inflation, defined as an annual growth in consumer prices, which over time is close to 2.5 pst. In the short and medium term, monetary policy shall weigh the consideration of low and stable inflation towards stability in production and employment. The Ministry of Finance has not seen any comments on Norway’s Bank’s exercise of monetary policy in 2016. Had I had a little more time, I would like to give the representative Syversen an orientation on the meetings in the G20, but I might briefly sum up saying that there are particular issues related to trade, free trade agreements and protectionism that have received a lot of attention from many countries, because some countries would rather not talk about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1391	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1396	First of all, I would like to ask the Council of State to give a little more detail on the progress being made in the context of the Working Party on the Free Police Challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1401	As I mentioned in my post, we now put down this working group, where we also include actors from the industry and the social partners. I don't want the propulsion to be long-lasting. I am concerned that we find answers that are perceived as good and forward-looking for those affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1406	On behalf of the four parties behind proposal No. 1, on this Commission, I draw the proposal in confidence that this will be prioritised. But I have to ask a question related to something that the home manufacturers said when they were at the hearing. They said it was a quiet conversion of the House Bank to become a purely social bank, and were concerned that this important housing policy tool could be diluted. My question is: What is the Minister of Finance thinking about the profile of the Husbank in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1415	The representative, Tore Hagebakken, then drew the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1420	We generally have many and good tools in housing policy in Norway, and the Husbank is one of them. We have e.g. news today that housing prices seem to be flattening out. Now that we see a weaker development in housing prices, there is no dramatic link. On the contrary, price growth tends to be attenuated after a period of high growth. What we're going to enjoy is that this contributes to a slightly more normal situation that will make it easier for those who want to enter the housing market to get in. It has been more demanding in a time of very high price growth in the housing market. I believe that the sum of what we have done there, along with many of the housing social instruments we have, contributes to sufficient tools to ensure the opportunities of different groups in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1429	I've had a tax cut issue in stock – I don't know if it's going to throw at the minister. Tax is much better suited to create greater differences than to create jobs, so I want to ask the Council of State: how many jobs does the Council of State see as being created as a result of tax cuts, and does the Minister of Finance agree that the fall in the exchange rate is far more important for Norwegian enterprises than tax cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1435	It is an honest thing that the Workers' Party is going to choose to increase taxes. I think it is right to reduce taxes – both because it stimulates people to work, and because it stimulates new investments in Norwegian business and more jobs. Tore Hagebakken and the Workers' Party seem to have forgotten that Norway was hit by an oil price drop in the spring of 2014, which has had quite a significant impact on the South and West and the industry associated with oil and gas-related activities. The fact that we're already seeing unemployment coming down, and that growth in the Norwegian economy is on its way up, indicates that the sum of the tools we've had at our disposal is working. Yes, the exchange rate has done its part of this. Money policy has done its part. The social partners have done their part. However, an expansionary and targeted fiscal policy has also contributed. So, through fiscal policy, we have to be able to do more things at once. One has been to reduce taxes; the other has been to increase investment in growth-promoting measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1444	Initially, I must say that I thought the minister answered very well the last question from Hagebakken. As I mentioned in my main post, I am very pleased that the SMB discount is finally introduced. It's been a long fight to get it in place, to say it carefully. My concern is, as I have also stressed strongly, however, that there will be a number of small businesses that because they are customers of large banks, so-called IRB banks, do not come under the scheme. The question is therefore, given my right to be concerned, whether the Minister of Finance will take action to ensure that these companies and banks too can benefit from the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1453	What I think I heard in Breivik's posts was a mix between the SMB discount and Basel I. I think that's a wrong mix. The Basel Committee is now discussing the design of a new Basel I floor, based on a completely new approach. I am happy to provide the representative, Mr Breivik, with more supplementary information on this in writing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1460	So the line change is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1478	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1487	The majority of the Committee subscribes to the amendments to the Money Laundering Act and the Securities Trading Act promoted by the Government in this matter. This includes, inter alia: rules on the supervision of compliance with the Laundering Act for business service providers and a limit on the amount of cash indemnities for dealers of items of NOK 40000. There is reason to stress that ordinary day-to-day transactions will not be affected by the change and the amount limit will not apply to purchases and sales between individuals. With the amendment of the law presented here, dealers of articles will no longer be subject to the rules of the Laundering Act. The majority of the Committee assumes that it would be easier and more reasonable for traders to deal with an amount limit than to establish procedures, create risk assessments and carry out customer checks in accordance with the Whitewashing Act, as we write in the suspension. The proposed amendments to the Laundering Act and the Securities Trading Act result in Norway complying with the EEA obligations under the third Whitewashing Directive. The entire Committee supports the Ministry’s proposed rules on an authorisation scheme for business service providers. Authorisation requirements for the provision of business services, authorisation withdrawal permits, requirements for the suitability of the authorisation holder and criminal threats where business services are offered without authorisation are proposed. The Committee also agrees with the proposal that the Financial Supervisory Authority should administer the authorisation system to oversee the providers of business services. Against the background of an undesirable increase in red tape in recent years, the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left require that the government in the implementation of the authorisation system focus on simplicity for users, minimisation of bureaucracy and cost-effectiveness. The members of the Whitewashing Law Committee disagreed in NOU 2015:12 on an amount limit of NOK 40000 for cash compensation to dealers of articles. The sample divided into three fractions on the issue of the introduction of the limit on the amount of cash compensation as an alternative to the fact that dealers of articles are subject to the WHP. A majority of seven members did not recommend the introduction of a limit on the amount of cash compensation. A minority of three recommended the introduction of an amount limit of DKK 40000 in combination with the fact that specific groups of dealers of articles are designated to be subject to the anti-money laundering law, irrespective of the form of settlement. The majority of seven divided into two fractions. Four members recommended the continuation of the current law, while three members proposed that object dealers be given the right to be consistently subject to a form of settlement other than cash at or above NOK 40000. The proposal promoted by the Ministry is in line with the recommendation of the minority of the sample, to which the majority of the committee subscribes. A Joint Committee supports the proposal in the proposal that the Financial Supervisory Authority should supervise compliance with the provisions on country-by-country reporting in the Securities Trading Act and the related regulation that the Ministry may lay down detailed rules in the regulation on the control of country-by-country reporting and measures to ensure that accurate information is provided in cases where country-by-country reporting is not in accordance with law or regulation. The Committee also supports the possibility for the Financial Supervisory Authority to impose an infringement fee where country-by-country reporting does not comply with law, regulation or administrative provisions when an infringement has occurred intentionally or negligently. During the Committee's work on the matter, the NHO has, inter alia: made a call to prevent the new rules from being circumvented by splitting payments. NHO writes: ‘The tax office shall supervise this. In order to be sure which payments are to be rejected by enterprises, they must know what is to be included in the term ‘where settlement is carried out in several operations’ in Section 4(a) of the Laundering Act. The majority of the Committee considers that such a guide can be useful and ends it in its position. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its excellent cooperation on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1507	Thank you, Mr Hagebakken, for the work that has been done. This proposition intends to promote measures to prevent the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. The right is engaged in combating any possibility of using the financial system for such purposes. The proposal contains, as the rapporteur said from the Chair, proposals for rules on the enforcement of the Laundering Act for providers of business services, and also deals with dealers of items and cash benefits. These proposals result in Norway complying with its EEA obligations under the third WFD. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that supports the government's proposal for an authorisation scheme for business service providers and that it is the Financial Supervisory Authority that is to manage the scheme and oversee these providers. I am also pleased that the majority supports the government's proposal to impose a limit on the amount of cash compensation for dealers of items, at NOK 40000. Such an amount limit does not mean that ordinary transactions will be affected by the change, nor will it apply to purchases and sales between individuals. Today, cash payments from NOK 40000 are the point of entry for when dealers of items are subject to the rules of the Money Laundering Act. This also means more work for business. By setting the amount limit for cash at NOK 40000, the dealers will no longer be subject to the Money Laundering Act. It will be administratively economical for business. This proposal also proposes that financial supervision should monitor compliance by companies with the country-by-country reporting provisions. This is a good proposal, and I am pleased that there is a cross-political consensus on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1526	Some brief but equally serious comments from my left and left sides: The left and the centre parties are the only parties in this case that disagree with the plurality of imposing a ban on a cash allowance of over NOK 40000. It is because a number of the whitewashing law selections, which have been prepared for the changes we are dealing with today, clearly believed that such a prohibition could be both contrary to Section 102 of the Constitution and Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. And for information, both of these documents deal with our right to privacy. Moreover, the same majority asked a very reasonable question about the effect of such a ban. None of these objections is – as far as I am able to see – something that plagues the plural number in terms of importance, in fact so little that it is not even mentioned in the comments of the plurality. I also have to wonder that there is a party that is very concerned that pensioners have to get their Nav slip on paper because they don't master modern technology as data, but that they think the same pensioners can't pay, or for that purpose accept payment for a new car, or a car they've sold, with paper, but they have to use modern technology instead. The left is very much for promise changes that have an effect, and that do not interfere unnecessarily with how individuals organize their own lives. The proposed amendment to the law to impose a ban on cash payments of over NOK 40000 does not do any of the parts. Therefore, the Left opposes the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1535	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1551	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1567	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1583	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1599	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1615	I want to start by thanking the case manager for the job that has been done in this case, and I also want to thank the committee. The centre party is occupied by the commercial industry, an industry that employs a lot of people and is present throughout the country. Even if change in technology will change the way we trade, there is every reason to believe that even in the future trade will be an industry that employs a significant number of people in Norway. But it's also an industry that might feel a little forgotten politically. No policy goes directly to the commercial industry. There was a great deal of joy when we put forward the proposal, because there was both a positive response from the Minister of Industry to this, and the whole committee agreed that such a big message should be presented. I'm not going to be tired of going into all the themes that might be relevant there, but there's one particular point the Center Party is now responding to, and it's that we want to give businessmen in Norway equal framework conditions to others and not to finance online commerce from abroad with the exemption of VAT. It will certainly make us rich in abilities to come back to both the revised budget and during the processing of this message. I just want to express my gratitude for the fact that we have achieved a multiple of these, and I think it is important that the industry itself be involved in the process of preparing the message, and that the scope of the message is not too narrow, but that the lack of trade in Norway is five.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1626	I would like to thank the representatives of the Central Party for promoting this proposal for a representative. The commercial industry is Norway's largest private employment unit. In this industry, 370,000 people work, and through these jobs, the industry is of great importance to our society. We know that 100,000 of these are young people, who in this way get an introduction to the world of work and get valuable experience. The commercial sector is scattered throughout the country and is therefore important for maintaining jobs in the districts. There is no doubt that the local store is often an important meeting point in many communities. At the same time, we also know, as the proposers point out, how we act and deal with the commercial industry is changing. Digitalisation, globalisation, automation and not forgetting online commerce are contributing to creating new trade patterns and new challenges, but also opportunities for the trading industry. The commercial industry shares some of the challenges with the rest of the business world, but something is also more specific. We know that problems are still emerging, for example. related to the competitive situation in parts of the commercial sector, which it is important that we monitor at all times. With this in mind, I am pleased, as the rapporteur-in-Office, that the Committee today endorses a comprehensive communication on the commercial sector which will look at some key industrial policy issues for trade in goods, such as: digitisation of new technologies, new trade patterns, the importance of industry for employment and competition policy issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1641	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee and the Advocate-General for their good cooperation in dealing with this matter. The case we are dealing with today will hopefully provide good and sensible leadership for the commercial industry in this country in the years to come, but also in the short term. I am pleased that a Joint Committee sees the importance of the commercial industry in this country and the potential of the sector. The commercial industry is an important value added industry, with more than 370,000 added, and has a significant impact on business and the economy in this country and on society elsewhere. I believe that the proposers have made an appropriate proposal, and support their view that trade is ahead of good development, where automation, digitisation, globalisation, foreign competition and online commerce can be instrumental in changing trade significantly, in the short and long term. This sector is also important for young people to gain a foothold in the labour market. At a time when many young people are unemployed, this is particularly important in this way. In addition, as stated in the Minister of Industry’s letter of reply, this industry is also important in order to achieve the objectives linked to climate and the environment. These are not just challenges, but also clear possibilities. So it's important that we, as politicians, do what we can to make sure that the industry gets the best conditions to grow and develop further. I am therefore pleased that this government, with the Right and the Advance Party, has had a significant focus on just this. For the Progress Party, it has been important that we have an economic policy that raises and not inhibits business. For this reason, we have prioritised growth-promoting tax incentives for Norwegian companies and individuals. We have also reduced property and corporate taxes, which industry has demanded, but as the left side of Norwegian policy has gone to elections either to increase or to continue at a high level. In addition, we have implemented simplification measures — for example, before this — that have saved businesses for 12.5 billion. kr, and increase the rights of nutrition research. I support the Council of State for the fact that technology, digitisation, new patterns of trade, industry’s importance as employees and issues of competition policy are central issues of enterprise policy. For this reason, I support the proposalers that a wholesale notification of the commercial industry will be an important tool for the development of prudent and knowledge-based framework conditions, ensuring future developments and conditions of competition for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1656	The commercial industry is of great importance for the Norwegian economy and value creation. The industry is the gateway to working life for very many young people and jobs many throughout the country. In addition, trade is important in order to achieve the climate and environmental objectives. I note that an overall nutrition committee is behind the proposal for a wholesale notification of the trade industry. The importance of the industry – with approx. 370,000 persons employed and large contributions to value creation – I also think it makes sense to review the industry’s framework conditions. The size of the industry means that even small estimates of productivity can have a noticeable impact on the Norwegian economy. However, I would point out that the challenges facing the commercial industry are largely common to a significant part of Norwegian business. They relate to technological development, digitisation, increased competition from abroad and changes in the need for labour and skills. These challenges are best addressed by broad instruments. The government has pursued a predictable economic policy and laid a good framework for business. We have prioritised growth-promoting tax relief to Norwegian companies and ordinary workers. The appropriations for industrial research and innovation have increased sharply. Important instruments include: TaxFUNN, User-controlled innovation arena and Establisher grant. The Norwegian economy has undergone many conversions. The need for change does not diminish in the coming years. There is also some background to the recent presentation by the government of an industrial report. However, the commercial industry encounters less global competition and is not as affected by reduced petroleum activity as the industry. It is therefore gratifying that Norwegian trade in goods has experienced sustained growth in turnover for a longer period of time. As the trade organisation Virke writes in the Trade Report 2016/2017, the large picture for Norwegian trade is positive. At a time of rapid technological development, the commercial industry has been good at developing and deploying new technologies and has seen the potential to do so. New technological solutions change the skills needs of the labour market. Growth in productivity is largely about freeing labour to more value-creating activities. However, there are some framework conditions that are specific to the commercial industry. Examples include the limit on duty-free imports of goods, Norwegian agricultural policy, opening hours and the competitive situation in the daily food sector. The government is concerned about these issues and has a particular focus on the daily food sector. The retail stage is in most respects the last stage of consumer trade, and thus competition at retail level is of great importance in ensuring a wide range of products, good quality and reasonable prices for consumers. Competition policy plays an important role here. In the retail trade, chain formation at retail level is both common and effective. We as consumers enjoy this in terms of sales of sports goods, electronic and white goods, retail sale of flowers, construction goods, pharmacy and groceries. I agree with the Industry Committee that the trade industry faces many of the same challenges as industry, and that a wholesale communication on the trade industry should take a closer look at trends and key industry framework conditions. I believe that the central issues of industrial policy for trade in goods, among others: are technology and digitisation, new trade patterns, the role of industry as employment networks and competition policy issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1690	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1707	The proposers behind this document 8 are, in effect, proposing two approaches to the transposition law and two proposals for amendments. I'll briefly explain it. The first is to extend the scope of the conversion law to smaller enterprises than it does today, and in particular to such a discretionary concept as ‘cornstone holdings’. Let there be no doubt that there are enterprises of a smaller size than those covered by the conversion law, which play a very important role around many communities, and that is also the background for a minority to believe that the government should make an assessment of this in a broader framework than the Document 8 proposes. Then there is the second dimension of the proposal, which invites the government to propose changes in policy and law to allow for the imposition of sales to certain persons or groups. There is a relatively large majority in the Committee who believe that it is not an advisable strategy and way to go. Some of us believe that this would be contrary to the fundamental principles of contract law and would not be particularly appropriate to create a dynamic and good business. So it does not want a majority in the committee to be looked at in more detail. With these words, I'm addressing the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1720	The representative Knut Storberget has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1725	I shall not say much in addition to what the rapporteur has said, but we have had the perspective message for debate in the Chamber, and there was a central issue in society's challenge in terms of productivity growth. So here we are with a Document 8 proposal that seeks to expand the scope of the conversion law. Then I want to refer to what the department writes, and that's that you can't really find signs that the conversion law works, and that it can actually have a negative impact on society's adaptability, especially for corner stone companies, precisely because the conversion starts a lot earlier than when the conversion law actually requires you to start alerting. There are some laws that we have that might be nice to garden, but that's not 'need to garden', so I wanted to put this a little bit in a productivity perspective. If we're going to be able to raise the productivity of society, we can't keep all sorts of laws that create a lot of work out there for the companies that are involved, but that really don't have any effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1732	I want to say a little bit about the background of the proposal, because we see that we need to adjust today's legislation to fit into the real world and the societies we have. Just one example: we had a situation in Finnmark where a western-based company shut down a fish farm – not because there was no fish in the sea, not because there was no profitability in it, but because you wanted to take away the operation of the farm. Nor did it want others to buy it up and move on, even though it was the cornerstone of the community. It was because one did not want competition, and the company set very clear criteria for a possible sale. Then we see that community ends up hostages to companies because you're sitting on property you refuse to sell, even if it boils of fish in the sea. There shall be a difference between shutting down an enterprise and shutting down a community. That is why we want conversion laws to have a force, that it should work and that it is a law that should embrace the business we actually have. We know that we have small and medium-sized enterprises, and today's legislation covers large enterprises in Norwegian context. If we look at the coast of the districts, there are far fewer enterprises that provide work, and there are far fewer employed in what are today crucial and important cornerstones in the communities. That is why we are promoting proposals: to get a regulation that is adapted to reality. I have recorded that earlier, when the conversion law has been under discussion, the trade union movement has supported us in that there must be much smaller enterprises, much fewer employees, which underlie the requirement to comply with the conversion law. I record the argument from the majority, but also the common desire from the red-green parties that conversion laws are a tool we have faith in, but we have to come back to and look at. So it's just to enjoy a long election campaign and a new majority, where you can actually review the necessary legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1745	We need a sustainable and adaptable business, with competitive jobs. Conversion by cutting some businesses, while new ones are coming, is sometimes crucial to maintaining value creation in the economy. In my view, public regulation cannot, or should not, prevent closures that contribute to socio-economical economic transformations. Migration is both desirable and necessary and contributes to viable businesses – both in cities and districts. One of the main areas of government activity is competitiveness for Norwegian jobs. Competitiveness includes: how adaptive and innovative we are. The ability to convert is a central part of this. Just because we do not want to cement a business structure that quickly loses competitiveness, we are betting on good general framework conditions, growth-promoting tax relief, research and innovation. The government is concerned that public regulation should not impair the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs. The work on simplification is part of this. Less time spent on forms and unnecessary rules means more time and money to create values and secure jobs. Simplification measures should not only reduce the burden on business, they should also contribute to the efficient use of our overall resources. The regulatory framework shall achieve given objectives at the lowest administrative cost to business. As part of this work, we have also announced that we will repeal the conversion law. I record that the opposition is proposing a strengthening of the law. That, I believe, is symbolism. The importance of the law on migration has been adequately addressed by other legislation, and industrial policy is already a major contributor to change. We have rules in the Labour Environment Act and the Labour Market Act that facilitate dialogue between the employer and the employee. This provides an even better safety net for workers in closures than the conversion laws do. Such rules also follow from the main agreement between LO and NHO. Furthermore, without the conversion law, the instrument may be involved and, together with owners or others, identify whether there is still a possibility of profitable activities for closure threatened enterprises. The government will facilitate profitable and sustainable conversion. In the government's industrial report, we warn that greener, smarter and more innovative efforts are needed to provide future growth and new jobs. We will facilitate the development of an innovative and competitive industry in the broad sense, and we will promote Norway as an attractive country of localisation for industrial activity. I believe that this is the best way to create new jobs in the districts and communities. Additional burdens and red tape for businesses are poor in creating and maintaining profitable jobs. This applies both in cities and in districts. I believe that an extension of the conversion law is not the right instrument for achieving a competitive business, rather the opposite. What business needs are good framework conditions. Reduced taxes, investment in transport, and not least a strong commitment to research and innovation, we believe that is what is needed to create a more competitive business.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1766	I myself set up as a leader in the business selection in the county municipality of More and Romesdal before I came to the Stortinget. There was so that a large nationwide enterprise, Nortura, put down a lot of jobs in the region. As the leader of the nutrition selection, I was designated to enforce this law. I experienced what wasted time, as completely unnecessary, as a law that has no influence, but above all it has good motivation behind it – but that's not how we can hold on to the workplace. What weight do the county councils have in such a context? Absolutely no weight. Whether to force pregnant or perhaps marginally profitable enterprises to continue until they can no longer stand on their own, it seems contrary to its intention. The conversion law is simply unmanageable. Conversion is entirely necessary, desirable and forward-looking, without one from a political standpoint going into and out of control enterprises that see that one is forced to enter a process where one either ends up with conversion, closure or other measures, simply to save jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1771	Others have not asked for the word on case 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1787	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1794	We have previously dealt with two trade agreements, I just want to add a little comment to those matters – I didn't run down the hall quickly enough to give a little comment. I am pleased that Norway is expanding its trade network internationally. Now it's the Philippines and Georgia. They are not our main trading partners, but it is still important countries to build good relations, especially for Norwegian maritime activities in the Philippines. But the government accounts are not mentioned with a very high interest in the storeroom, it's perhaps where we're different from business, which discuss accounts more than budgets – here we're doing the opposite. So to the proposal on the conditions of competition on a Norwegian base. I would like to thank the Committee for a very thorough and thorough examination of a proposal that could potentially have had quite a lot of explosive power in itself, because there are major interests related to Norwegian pedestal – of course it is. The oil has carried us to an amazing prosperity in the country. We had a period when the exchange rate with the rest of the world improved as we sold more and more oil that rose in price, and many imported goods became cheaper. It got a rough end to the oil price drop in many ways. It's obvious that the whole sector has had to take it up. There's been a lot of stress out there, I think we're going to make a statement. There have been a good deal of newspaper headlines and debates on both how actors have acted and how to deal with the fall in prices. The Committee clearly states that there was an oil price drop that no one could ignore. One had to act, and one had to improve the competitiveness of the Norwegian base – however, there is no disagreement. The fact that you also have to convert, the committee understands very well. A public inquiry was requested. The Committee agrees that the government is looking at the conditions of competition in the sector precisely in view of the fact that this is a sector that is extremely important to our prosperity. As I said, it has built up a lot of the welfare we have. It is going to be important for many, many years to come, and it is important for the country to develop both a competitive situation on the base and conversion and competitiveness, so that we can all benefit as much as possible from the resource that lies out there. I feel that there is a great deal of consensus in the committee. Of course, it has been discussed whether some actors have too much power, and that is also the background to the proposal. It does not decide, nor does the Competition Authority in its investigation. The fact that there is one buyer that is quite dominant doesn't have to have negative consequences, but it's an interesting market constellation to go into and look at how it actually turns out. There are some specific comments from some parties, but I think there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on the proposal for a decision. I would once again like to thank the Committee for examining this proposal for a representative in as good a manner as it has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1807	I would like to start by thanking the proposers for raising an important issue that has shaped the coast. We've got a lot of ideas about the situation you've been in lately. It is important for both employees and owners of the supplier industry and shipowners that we actually address this and raise that situation. Statoil and Hydro were merged at political request to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness on Norwegian and international bases. Excessive cost levels and more than halving the oil price affected the entire industry in Norway and internationally. The challenges facing the Norwegian supplier industry include: related to the major changes in the market situation, but there have also been challenges in view of the size of Statoil. The interaction on Norwegian pedestal is important for both value creation, profitability and jobs, and we are quite clear that Statoil has a special position with control of over 70 pst. of the production on Norwegian pedestal. Such a large concentration of power makes their position reasonably dominant. This means that Statoil effectively controls the level of activity on Norwegian pedestal, both through its own decisions as an operator and a licensee, and through the fact that other operators on Norwegian pedestal often follow the main player in its behaviour. After difficult times with oil price falls and demanding rates over several years, Statoil’s power has strongly influenced the supply industry, and Statoil’s behaviour has been perceived by several actors who are demanding to deal with it. Long-term contracts have been modified, reduced rates and curtailed. The rates have become so demanding that they have to agree to deliver assignments where you actually experience red and non-black numbers when you are in the negotiations. It's clear that it's self-evident that it's demanding. It must be clear what kind of expectations the State owns about this competitive situation and how the balance of power affects the whole petroleum industry in Norway. But we also very much appreciate that there is good dialogue between authorities and the supplier industry, shipowners and not least Statoil, where transparency has become even more important than before and has been focused on, and we feel that Statoil as an actor has become more open to the supplier industry and is trying to address the challenges they have sometimes been criticized for. We understand, of course, that the requirement to renegotiate agreed instalments in the longer term and of current contracts is difficult for suppliers to resist, for fear of being discriminated against or excluded from the market. But we also see that stricter requirements and tougher times have strengthened actors and increased the international competitiveness of some actors. We have to be able to say that it's important to get an investigation into this, and I'm very happy that there's such a large majority, that everyone wants to be part of it. I look forward to the government triggering this. If necessary, there may be a new government after the election that must, in any case, take this responsibility and actually do something about it. That's what we're going to hope for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1820	This is a matter which has taken up the industry and the coast for a long time, so I am pleased that today we have it on the political agenda in this Chamber. In the Norwegian economy, the country's petroleum industry and the supplier industry are the cornerstone of the prosperity and development we have in Norway, and I am pleased that the majority in the Committee supports this view. The industry favours state income, value creation, jobs, important investments and incentives to strengthen the situation of Norway in a hard international competition market. However, the 2014 oil price drop has reminded us that the industry can be vulnerable. It is therefore particularly important that the sector has the best framework conditions. As noted in the comments, the fall in oil prices has led to discussions about possible competitive challenges related to the market situation and the value chain where one or few operators have a greater impact on competition than others. Then I was in contact with the Group leader of Statoil, Eldar Sétre. He underlined the fact that Pål Eitrheim, Statoil's Director of Purchases, said: ‘Statoil is completely dependent on close and good cooperation with suppliers. We want close cooperation and increased predictability for the industry. We shall be a listening and accessible actor, but we must always be better." Statoil has to some extent recognized that things can get better, and it is important to recognize. For this reason, I am pleased that the proposers address this debate in the light of the importance of a healthy competition situation on Norwegian soil, and there are many in this supplier industry who face challenges related to strong market players, such as Statoil, and other dominant players, who have had a solid market position. Therefore, it is also important that we, as politicians, do what we can to bring this into the political debate and ensure that the actors' behaviour does not impede competition, for the sake of petroleum industry. As also appears in the letter from the Council of State, it is important that all actors are competitive both nationally and in international markets. In the industry, there are more people who depend on each other, and therefore it is important that players have the best competitive players. I am therefore pleased that the majority in the committee is in favour of asking the government to clarify the competitive situation on Norwegian soil and the prospects for the Norwegian supplier industry after the transitions that this industry has undergone, and I am confident that this government will do much better than any red-green government that may come after the elections – probably not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1840	First, I would like to thank you for your good words to us as proposers on the draft representative we are now considering. It is an important matter, which today has a broad agreement in this Chamber. Effective competition is important in all sectors. This, of course, also applies on a Norwegian base. Normally, the focus of the seller's power is on discussing competition, but also the purchasing power can be problematic. It is worth noting, then, that both the European Commission and ESA in general assume that there is particular reason for caution when a company has a market share of 40 pst. or higher. The higher the market share over a longer period, the more likely market dominance is. On Norwegian base, Statoil controls over 70 pst. of all production, including DEATH. This means that Statoil effectively controls the whole level of activity on Norwegian pedestal, both through its own decisions as an operator and a licensee, and through the fact that other operators on Norwegian pedestal often follow the main player in its behaviour. When an actor is so dominant, there is reason to be on guard. That is what is behind this proposal. The Christian People's Party believes that competition is important in all markets, and that it is the responsibility of the authorities to ensure that this competition works well. Norwegian pedestal has a very dominant actor, and that means that we have a competitive situation that we have to follow closely. In recent years, we have received strong signals that many suppliers feel that this situation is very demanding, especially in times of recession. This is something we have to take seriously. Concerns have been raised about the competition situation on a Norwegian base since the merger between Statoil and Hydro was carried out, and this issue has again been updated in recent years, with large cuts and reductions in investment. But this isn't just about the demanding times the oil sector is in now. We want a healthy competition in both good and bad times. In 2016, I traveled an interpellation on the competition situation on Norwegian pedestal – the debate was held in the autumn of 2016. In this debate there was broad agreement that a review of the situation we have was necessary. Statoil has been important in the construction of the Norwegian oil industry and will be important for many years to come. But it is the interaction between the operators and the suppliers that has been the most important success factor on the Norwegian base. Through the granting of privileges in the 1970s and 1980s, through the ownership notification and in comments on the merger between Statoil and Hydro, Statoil has been entrusted with greater social responsibility than other operators on the Norwegian base. Social responsibility has been linked to Statoil, which is such a dominant player, also having a responsibility in addition to purely commercial matters. Statoil is expected to take responsibility for the development and competence of industry, investment in R & D, but also to ensure that the Norwegian supplier industry continues to develop and strengthen its position. This is also important in the future. The supplier industry will continue to develop as suppliers to the oil sector nationally and globally, but also be with us into new industries in the green shift. The supplier industry was built in centuries of maritime and industrial competence. Renewable industry will build on the same. It is important then that conditions of competition ensure that competence does not disappear. That is why it is very gratifying that the Committee today supports the proposal that we from the Christian People's Party have promoted. This is an important issue for the supply industry in Norway, and the issues raised many times since the merger between Statoil and Hydro was carried out in 2007. I look forward to following the work and also reading the conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1858	The oil price drop has the frame of Norway hard, it has the edge of the coast hard, and it has the frame of Rogaland and other parts of the West particularly hard. Both oil companies and the supplier industry have marked tougher times. I believe that both the supplier industry and the oil company, in the name of the post-war clock, see that cost-focus and efficiency could have a higher priority in the gold years that have been. The fact that we have a big player, Statoil, on a Norwegian base, presents challenges. It can provide a basis for wondering whether the conditions of competition are good enough and equal. The Centre Party therefore supports such an arrangement and the setting up of the Committee. At the same time, it is easy to criticise Statoil, but one should also be very happy that we have Statoil, a large oil company that has Norwegian base as its home track, and that has a long-term view of Norwegian base. Without Statoil I believe it would look much darker for the future to Norwegian pedestal. It is also difficult to imagine a Statoil without a Norwegian base. And it's naive to think that Statoil doesn't really think about itself. The distribution needs to identify the competitive situation and see whether measures can be put into effect to ensure a better balance in the competitive market in which the supplier industry operates, and simply to give a better level of competition on a Norwegian base. I mean it's right to come up with criticism of Statoil. I think Statoil has to endure criticism, but I also believe that all mention of Statoil must happen with some enthusiasm for the company. We don't have to get to the point that the biggest problem we have is Statoil. Rather, on the contrary – it is Norway’s most important company, and they are to be able to be debated, but they should also be referred to as what they are: a very important player in Norwegian business and a very important player in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1871	The Industry Committee has put an end to the Christian People's Party's proposal to investigate the competitive situation on Norwegian soil. An overall committee proposes that the Stortinget should ask the government to investigate the competitive situation on a Norwegian base and the prospects for the Norwegian supplier industry after the transitions that the industry has undergone. I think it makes sense to investigate this, especially in the light of the difficult situation the industry has been in – and in many ways it is still in. The government will therefore follow this up. The supplier industry has been a growth engine in industry in the 2000s and a driver in the industrial sector in Norway. Norwegian pedestal provides suppliers with a large domestic market and provides a basis for employment in all the counties of the country. The Norwegian supplier industry has also established a strong position internationally. The oil sector is cyclic. The 2014 oil price drop required the whole industry to take action to ensure long-term sustainability. Many companies and shipping companies had rigged for a different future than the one we've experienced in the last three years. It's part of a global development. When the oil price goes down, oil companies will necessarily have to tighten up, and this means that competition for the contracts for the suppliers will become tougher. We all know that there has been a hard time for both businesses and employees, and many companies are still in a difficult situation. All actors have had to cut costs to become competitive. These cost cuts have been necessary. Without such measures, Norwegian sockets and Norwegian suppliers would be at risk of losing international competitiveness. But even if the cost cuts are necessary, they – and everyone agrees – must be done in a correct and proper way. In such a situation, it is reasonable that all contribute and that the burden be distributed among the actors. When we had this debate last autumn, several from the supplier industry noticed that they experienced individual oil companies as demanding and, to some extent, unreasonable actors. They considered that the necessary cost cut was too much to be passed on to the supplier industry, and it was perceived that the dominant position was being exploited. After the discussion last year, there was a dialogue between Statoil and the supplier industry. That's good. In view of the major common challenges facing the entire sector in the future, we should continue the dialogue between all actors in the sector. An investigation of the situation and prospects of the Norwegian supplier industry can contribute to this. Petroleum activity is a carrier in the Norwegian economy and will remain so for many decades to come. It is Norway's clearly largest industry in value creation, state income, investment and export value and thereby contributes to the financing of our welfare country. However, there is also mutual dependence in the industry, and tidy dialogue and good processes are important in the implementation of demanding mitigations. It is essential that the industry itself contributes to this. From the government's side we work for increased involvement on Norwegian pedestals, among others. through the search fusion, TFO and pre-qualification systems. It's given results. The number of operators on Norwegian pedestals has almost doubled since the early 2000s. I will end by pointing out that some parts of the sector are harder hit than others, but for some there is now evidence that the level of activity is rising again. Such changes are painful while they are in progress, but can lead to both efficiency and innovation in the longer term. I am concerned that the competition situation on the Norwegian base is good, and that we are getting safely through a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1896	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1901	Norway is in a situation of demand. Many have changed in recent years. In January 2016, the oil price was below $30 barrel. In the summer of 2014, he was well over $100 the barrel. This, of course, has led to major challenges both for those who deliver directly and for those who deliver indirectly to the oil and gas industry, especially in the South and in the West. But the ringwork also spreads to other industries and to other parts of the country. Along the coast we see supply boats and rigs in warehouses. Those who are affected by the downfall, and especially those who lose their jobs, experience this as very dramatic. One is used to being asked, and all of a sudden it stops all of a sudden. It affects both families and individuals, and it affects businesses. Norwegian pedestal has developed in many ways. Technology is changing, health, the environment and security are better, and a number of other demands have led industry to develop a cost level that is not sustainable in the long term. Combined with falling oil prices, it is clear that this may result in a change in the margins of the actors present. I also feel what Pollestad was about, that maybe a little bit of criticism is raised against Statoil, like a big, dominant actor. That it can be experienced this way, I have also heard from many people. But I would like to remind you that we ourselves have chosen this company form and this large company – through the merger that we have allowed. At the same time, I would also like to point out what many people point out that we have to work for a greater deficiency on the Norwegian base. We have a tendency to misrepresent our own state-owned company. If we are to be able to get a good deal on the Norwegian base, we must also be able to hold the foreign companies. Therefore, it is very good to hear that the Council of State says that it will be working on this, and that the number of actors on the Norwegian base has increased. I think it is greedily important to have this missing out on a Norwegian base, and to create that dynamic and competitive force that all demand outside, out there. The cost focus of Statoil is not new. It began long before the oil price fell, with the STEP programme, which is a programme for identifying and realizing improvements. It's going to work well in the industry. I would also like to remind you of the action KonKraft, which started in 2017, where a look at the competitiveness of the Norwegian base, which is changing. And there's a selection, with wide competence from different operators, from the supplier industry and from the rigging organizations. I hope that the report can also look at the work being done there. But in particular, I would like to highlight the importance of looking at what can be done to make Norwegian socket more attractive in the future for foreign actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1916	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox Case No. 14–19 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1991	I take the floor on case No. 15, Decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on changes to the Working Environment Act [[alert and working hours]] I refer you to Mr Stortinget's vote on 1 June of this year on proposals in Innst. 303 L for 2016-2017. My remarks in the vote show that, as a member of the Central Party in the Committee, I oppose the government's proposal to extend the normal working day from 1 p.m. From 21 to 21 o'clock 23rd Last@item: inlistbox In the case of an incurrency, this is not recorded as such in the configuration of the committee. I therefore argued on behalf of the Centre Party against the proposal to amend Section 10 of the Working Environment Act at the plenary session of Stortinget on 1 June. However, in the event of another incurrency, the representatives of the Central Party voted in favour of the government's proposal for amendments to the Working Environment Act §§ 10-11 and 10-12. I would therefore like to stress that the central party's large-scale group is opposed to the government parties' proposal to amend the Working Environment Act §§ 10-11 and 10-12 and to request that this be recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e1998	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 14-19.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2016	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Terje Breivik, on behalf of the Left the proposals No 3-5, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 by the Greens. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘In 2018, the government is asked to provide a revised perspective notification based on the fact that: – Norway is delivering the Paris agreement by not exceeding 46,4-48,4 million national climate emissions in Norway in 2020. tonnes of CO 2 equivalent [[excluding enrolment in forests]] ‘The government is asking for a social development where future productivity growth in the economy is mainly taken as a reduction in working time, improved quality of life and a more inclusive working life, rather than an increase in wages and purchasing power.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2047	There is a vote on proposal No. 3 by the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an investigation into Norway’s total carbon risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2062	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a public body with a mandate to carry out a reform with more uniform rates of unemployment benefits and health-related benefits such as disability benefits, redundancy benefits and sick pay.’ [[AAP]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2077	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the left: the proposal reads: ‘The size of the fund requests the government to make appropriate proposals for a supplementary provision in the policy of action linked to the actual return of the fund and with the rules on phase-in phase-in and limited withdrawal of funds for periods.’;» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2110	A total of 22 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Left and Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, by Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party, Left and Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7-9, by Terje Breivik, on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party the proposals No 10–13, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No 14–16, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 17-20, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 21 and 22, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 22 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to baptize the fund from the State pension fund abroad into the Norwegian Future Fund and to redefine its mandate in order to reflect its contribution to the achievement of the UN sustainability objectives and the Paris Agreement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2152	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to develop a strategy for phasing out investments in fossil energy in the state pension fund abroad with the aim of fossilising the pension fund by 2020.’ [[SPU]] The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2169	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17–20, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the Norwegian Bank to log in to the various expectations documents that are addressed to companies. The logging of themes in company dialogues must be used to assess the development of companies over time, so that the use of the instrument can be adapted. The expectations raised in relation to which companies must be made available to the public through the annual report of the Bank of Norway on responsible investment activities.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Norway’s Bank moves its subsidiaries away from closed jurisdictions.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the Norwegian Bank to notify relevant tax authorities if Norway’s Bank discovers unethical tax practices among the companies in the portfolio.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the inclusion of unethical tax practices and tax evasion among the extractive criteria in the SPU ethical guidelines.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2201	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14–16, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the fund can be set up in such a way that the Norwegian economy in general and Norwegian government finances in particular will be less cyclical.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up guidelines requiring that a maximum part of the Fund’s activities be carried out from Norway.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks that the activities of the oil fund in Norway be more widely disseminated so that it can participate in the whole country.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2230	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the basis for withdrawing SPU from gambling companies.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the basis for withdrawing SPU from alcohol companies.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2255	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 13, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to open up the possibility for SPU to invest in unlisted infrastructure as proposed by the Bank of Norway, with small investments in developed countries with a high degree of security at first, in order to gain experience and build skills.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the establishment of an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad [[SPU]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2279	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7–9, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an opening for investment in unlisted infrastructure within the environmental mandates, including unlisted investments in renewable technologies and renewable energy infrastructure.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to develop a strategy for phasing out investments in fossil energy in the State pension fund abroad.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to prepare an appropriate definition of fossil companies with a view to extracting SPU from fossil energy in line with the previous decision to extract SPU from coal.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2308	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from Christian People's Party, Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the exclusion of the State pension fund from weapons which, in normal use, conflict with basic humanitarian principles also includes companies that produce nuclear weapons, nuclear infrastructure, nuclear additional equipment or services related to the production, maintenance and use of nuclear weapons.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2325	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Central Party, Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to disclose to it the companies sold by the SPU after considering the risks associated with corporate governance and social and environmental conditions.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2342	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new and more thorough review of the possibility of developing ethical guidelines for sovereign debt, on the basis of which the transparency criteria of the issuer countries are based.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the rights of indigenous peoples, enshrined in the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Native Peoples and the ILO Convention No. 169, and the employee rights enshrined in the ILO’s core conventions, are given a greater place in the Norwegian Bank’s human rights expectation document.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking how the oil fund can play a more constructive role in the fight against international tax evasion and tax evasion.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase the scope of SPU’s environmental mandates.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2392	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Terje Breivik on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the purposes of the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights and the International Labour Organization Convention No. 169 are respected in the SPU Ethics Guidelines for Investment.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2418	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to refer to the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights and to International Labour Organization Convention No. 169 as the basis for the SPU Ethics Guidelines for Investment.’ [[SP]] [[ILO-169]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2468	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Tore Hagebakken on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Tore Hagebakken on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Left proposal No 3, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party proposal No 4, from Terje Breivik on behalf of the Centre Party and the Left proposal No 5, from Terje Breivik on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 1 was drawn in the course of the debate. There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the SME discount also applies to the entire Norwegian market, including so-called IRB banks and their business customers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2503	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the local government to grant status to the local government as a ‘promotional bank’ and to grant loans to the local government sector with so-called zero weight in the weighted capital adequacy requirements.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2520	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to ensure that banks’ access to risk through activities other than the core business is further limited beyond what is currently regulated by Norwegian banking and group law.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2537	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to determine and propose a model for the introduction of caps on consumer loans in Norway.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2757	Several have reported that they have voted incorrectly, so we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2769	The rest of the I and the rest of the Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2779	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e2789	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e3687	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e3697	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e3737	In the course of the debate, one proposal has been put forward, proposal No. 1, from Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to assess an extension of the conversion law and return to Stortinget with a broader assessment thereof.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e3800	Case No. 14–19 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative acts 92–97. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-06.ana.ud151e3826	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
