ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e47	Honourable co-representatives! Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad was for several decades a capable and distinctive figure in the centre movement. Both as the head of the Senter women and as the staging representative and the state council of the Senterparti, she has set a clear footstool. She was clear and often inflexible in opinions and arguments. She had a glance at the weakest in society and did not hesitate to tell her about what she considered to be injustice. Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad marked itself in a wide range of political issues throughout the 1980s and 1990s. She was clearly involved in the fight against nuclear weapons, against the deployment of nuclear missiles in Europe, she was involved in cultural matters, in energy and environmental matters and in municipal and district policy issues. She was concerned with the tension of the Center Party and represented an important part of it. It was in the center she heard at home, as she herself said. It was a school case that first aroused Ragnhild's interest in politics. – We fought a hard fight to keep the schools, and the Center Party was the only party that could present a decent policy, she said in an interview in Hamar Arbeiderblad in 1982. Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad was a member of the Grue Municipal Government from 1971 to 1975 and of Hedmark County from 1975 to 1982. From 1981 to 1997, she was a central bank representative of the Hedmark Central Party. Throughout her work, she became central to many crossroads of Norwegian politics in the last 40 years. She was central to her opposition to nuclear policy in the 1980s, she was the central leader of the Senter women when the Senter Party left the Syse government in 1990, she was a prominent leader of the Energy and Environment Committee from 1993 to 1997, and she completed her political career as a municipal minister in the central government from 1997 to 1999. Political opponents could experience Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad as distinct and sometimes steep. Those who cooperated closely with her experienced her as humorous, warm and clear. We thank Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad for her great efforts in Norwegian politics and shine peace over her memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e68	Two permit applications are available: on the leave of the representative of Mr Morten Wold on 4 and 5 December to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Budapest by the Central Party Group on the Welfare Permit of the representative of Mr Geir Adelsten Iversen from 4 December until further notice. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the Buskerud County, Tone Heimdal Brataas, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Morten Wold, because of illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Province of Buskerud: Eilev Bekjorden For Finnmark County: Nancy Charlotte P. Anti
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e113	The representative, Mr Solvency Skaughty Foss, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e118	On behalf of the big business representatives Arne Nävra, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal to introduce payment parking in the garage.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e123	The representative of Mr Lene Vågslid will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e128	On behalf of the representatives of Jan Bøhler, Maria-Karine Aasen-Svensrud and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a new penalty that indicates that it is illegal to share or publish images that are revealing, demeaning or offensive to the person or persons being depicted and that increase the penalties for spreading that kind of image without consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e134	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e139	On behalf of myself, I would like to propose an investigation into the purpose of the Nobel Peace Prize and the role of the Storting in the election of members of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e144	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e162	The President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven lines of response from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e175	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the presentation, both the part that was directly linked to Norwegian interests, and the Minister’s more – what to say – overall analysis of what is going on in Europe. I would like to make a few comments about the last one first. There have been innumerable chronicles about the results of the referendums that we have had around Europe in recent years, perhaps with the brutal involvement of Brexit and the nationalist groupings in the European Parliament as one of the most serious. Although the analyses of course crack, it is quite clear to most that this is a sign of abstinence, distance and a false distribution of the benefits of trade and economic relations, and – not least – workers who feel that the most direct result of free flow is that we compete with each other’s working conditions and rights down. We can choose to sneeze it, stick to our noses and take distance, or we can take it seriously. I think it's obvious that we have to do the last thing. I am pleased that it now appears that work on the social pillars of the European Union is becoming more weighty, and the social summit is an example of that. It seems that it grows a recognition that that arrow has to be filled with actual content. The Council of State itself underlined a positive attitude to the Commission's initiative to ensure the correct balance between the free movement of services, the protection of workers and fair competition. I would like to say that the proposal for amendments to the broadcasting directive to abandon the very important principle of equal pay for equal work at the same place is a step in the right direction. At the same time, I would like to stress as much as possible that the approach we have taken to these types of employment issues, where there are minimum standards that are being dropped, so that we have national freedom of action, we need to ensure. We need to keep a national space of action in the field of work and ensure that it is not restricted. It was also the minister in his presentation, but it is important that it is also underlined by the Storting. So some words about brexit and consequences for Norway. It is impossible to hold a debate of this kind without getting into that topic as it is now. As part of the EFTA/EEA delegation from Stortinget, I have been given the opportunity to get closer to this process, or – to be more precise – the lack of process, and the enormous uncertainty that this creates. Although the Council of State was very thorough in its statement on the brexit and consequences for Norway, there are a few points I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise. The EU side is categorical about the fact that it is not possible to proceed to phase 2 without the divorce agreement being ready. There's a lot of good reasons why I don't have time to go into this. We're not there right now, and it's going to be exciting to see what's going to be the conclusion to the summit in just two weeks. For the time being, at least the reality is that the British are really out of positions, and there is very little to suggest that they will end negotiating a free trade agreement when we arrive at March 2019. One question, of course, is how such a new agreement, when it is completed, should deal with the EEA Agreement, and not least what kind of influence Norway has in the negotiations. We are not a normal third country, and it is also recognised by the EU. What seems to be an even more precarious question is what happens during a possible transitional period. It is reasonable to assume that the UK expires in March 2019, and as the discussion progresses in the EU now, it is also reasonable to assume that the British remain full members – with full access to the internal market – while continuing to negotiate for a transitional period. What about the UK-EEA ratio? After all, the agreement states that in order to be a party to the EEA Agreement, one must be a member of either the EU or EFTA. So what kind of status our trade relations with the UK are going to have in such a transitional period, and not least what kind of rights Norwegian citizens who live in the United Kingdom, then will have over such an undetermined and probably quite long period, is a question that stands unanswered. I do not expect the Council of State to give clear answers to that today. It would have been very alarming if she were able to do so, for there is no one else who has an answer as to what this should look like. But I am at least interested in hearing the thoughts of the Council of State about how the Norwegian government is going to work to ensure Norwegian interests through such a transitional period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e190	The treatment of the EU/EEA statement today takes place under a slightly darker sky than we are usually used to when it comes to these presentations. The Western model of society with democracy, an open, liberal and social market economy and binding law-based international cooperation are at these times challenged by authoritarian trends, which also appear to increase in Europe, although democracies also showed considerable resistance to extreme and populist trends through the elections held in the major EU countries in the year we are in the process of falling behind. We are constantly reminded of the truth of the statement that democracy and rights are not natural, but a struggle that each generation must win separately. I find it reassuring that, in its presentation, the Council of State has given so much attention to the fact that it is in a small country that Norway is interested in having strong multilateral organisations where joint decisions are taken that are also considered binding by the strongest countries. Central organisations for Norway have been under pressure from the EU, NATO, the UN and the WTO, and all of them have, albeit to varying degrees, come under pressure. However, the development of some of the new democracies raised by the major round of enlargement at the beginning of the first decade of this millennium has also given cause for concern. The rule of law has been weakened in several places. Institutions such as: the principle of power-allocation, the independent activities of the courts and the development of a civil society without top-level control from power are waiting, and developments in some areas have gone in the wrong direction. It makes it difficult to build international consensus and to meet the global challenges Europe faces together. Therefore, it is even more important to work to preserve and strengthen the international agreements and institutions that provide us with the framework for cooperation. For Norway, EEA membership for our economy is what NATO membership is for our security. Our wealth and jobs are closely linked to the internal market. Our ability to solve cross-border problems requires close European cooperation. EU solidarity has been tested in recent years. EU cooperation has had problems delivering fast enough solutions to the problems that many citizens perceive. For example, migration pressures, low economic growth and, in some countries, increasing unemployment. In addition, the United Kingdom’s exit from the EU, which came as a surprise, has shaken the EU and which has had — and will also have — significant effects on the EFTA part of EEA cooperation with the EU. I share the view of the Council of State that there are at the same time signs that a majority of EU Member States have met the challenges of improved cooperation. The most likely thing is that in the coming years we will see new measures for enhanced cooperation in areas that have a positive impact on the lives of Europeans. It concerns growth and employment, climate and energy, borders and asylum policies, as well as security and defence. Moreover, the changed security policy situation contributes to the setting of an important and overall framework for defence in the coming years. I noticed that in its presentation, the Council of States placed great emphasis on our interest in effective European and international cooperation on migration, and not least Norway's contribution through European cooperation mechanisms to promote stability and sustainable development in the Middle East and in Africa. We can and should weaken the causes that fuel extremism, terrorism and organised crime. Norway’s and Europe’s threat picture is different and more serious than in any other period after the cold war. Russia’s illegal annexation of Crimea and destabilising behaviour in Ukraine and the Baltic Sea region underline the need for European and transatlantic solidarity and cohesion. It will therefore also be essential for Norway to monitor the development of enhanced cooperation on internal and external security for those EU countries that have entered into provisional cooperation under the name of PESCO. The internal market in the free movement of goods, services, capital and labour is a fundamental prerequisite for growth and prosperity in Norway and the Nordic countries. Jobs created are also a crucial social policy tool to integrate more people into the community of which the national State is the first framework. As the previous speaker pointed out, it is also essential for us to be proactive about the fact that the United Kingdom has chosen to leave European cooperation. Many forces are now being used to limit the adverse effects on both the EU/EEA area and the United Kingdom itself. The EU and the United Kingdom must then rely on a bilateral contractual relationship, in which the parties must first and foremost identify future ways of cooperating and organising economic relations. I think here I will also mention that it was very interesting to hear Michel Barnier, who some of us had the opportunity to meet in Tallinn earlier this week. He was a realist, but also positive and cautiously optimistic about the possibilities of reaching an orderly withdrawal for the United Kingdom. But he also stressed that an agreement was far preferable to a situation with no agreement. It is not exactly the same position that the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom has taken, who has said that a bad deal is something they will set lower than a so-called hard brexit. With regard to the EU Summit, I would like to report a slight nuance in relation to the representative Marthinsen. There has been a development in the positions occupied by the United Kingdom. As you know, the final retirement account has been cleared by the EU to EUR 60 billion. Yesterday it became known that the UK retailers could reach EUR 50 billion. This means talking about magnitudes that are at least in the same world, so the summit meeting on 14 and 15 December, which was a kind of internal deadline for determining substantial progress, has something to go on with. So far, as Mr Marthinsen also pointed out, there has been a very sharp separation between the two stages of exit negotiations, saying that agreement must first be reached between the EU and the United Kingdom on exit conditions. Only in phase 2 can you seriously and forcefully get involved in the regulation of the future relationship. There has been considerable progress in phase 2, although no conclusion has been reached in phase 1, and I am more optimistic about the fact that, after all, there has been a fairly substantial improvement in the offer from the United Kingdom. No matter what we may have to think about it in this Chamber, the EU will negotiate on its own behalf, not on behalf of Norway. The same will, of course, apply to the United Kingdom, which in itself leaves the free trade agreement and the agreement on internal market access when they leave the EU and thus leave the EEA. I am therefore very pleased with the procedure and the organisation chosen by the Council of State to stay well informed with Norwegian business and special business interests, and at all times proactively identify the Norwegian interests that could be at stake, so that our political leadership, foreign management and the Council of State can be on the ball in order to defend Norway's interests. That's what we in the first row are set to do in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e226	I would also like to use this opportunity to talk first and foremost about Brexit and its consequences for Norway — not so much about the process, but more about the underlying cause and what Norway can do, not about brexit, but how the relationship between Norway and the United Kingdom can be in the future. If the United Kingdom's negotiations with the EU succeed and the country leaves the Union, Norway's relationship with the United Kingdom will be able to be revitalised. Despite the firmness of the EEA Agreement and our ambitions to enter into the same agreement as the EU is negotiating, in any event, a Brexit can lead to increased Norwegian cooperation with the United Kingdom. It is therefore important that Norway, as we look forward to it, also sees us in the rearview mirror. Norwegian cooperation with the United Kingdom has historical roots. The United Kingdom is the most popular study choice for Norwegian foreign students, and British television series and English football are an equally obvious part of Norwegian everyday life as Norwegian tension literature has become for British crimps. 100 years ago, the United Kingdom was Norway’s main security ally. The United Kingdom was to protect Norway from outside attacks, while Norway as a frontier country to Russia, and later the Soviet Union, was an important strategic partner for the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom is currently Norway’s largest trading partner. Norway is a very important energy supplier to the United Kingdom. All 30 pst. of the imported energy used by the country is Norwegian, and Norway accounts for too much of the United Kingdom’s gas imports. At the trade union national meeting last month, the head of the Labour Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, claimed that it would be unthinkable to start trade cooperation with the United Kingdom without the EEA agreement being established. I think that's historyless and visionless. The only thing that is absolutely certain is that a United Kingdom outside the EU will be a more independent United Kingdom. In the short term, the country will be able to face multiple challenges, including economic ones, but in the long term it will become stronger, more independent and more confident. Before it occurs, Norway must have clear ambitions to increase cooperation. Economic, cultural and political contacts between Norway and the United Kingdom are more than 1 000 years old and have gradually strengthened. Contact was further strengthened in the 20th century through the relationship between the royal houses of the countries. The Nordics most also manage English fairly well, and there is little doubt that in most areas we feel closer to the United Kingdom than, for example, other major European countries. The ability to communicate in the same language is often crucial if good relations are to be built for trade. With this as a hindrance, it is unwise and a little arrogant categorical to reject trade between our two countries unless a 23-year-old trade agreement is founded. I choose to look positive at it. A United Kingdom outside the EU could create unparalleled opportunities for Norway. A United Kingdom outside the EU will naturally build even stronger ties with the United States. It could also be in Norway's interest. I see good possibilities in such a triangle cooperation. Let it be clear that when the Labour Party leader in the same speech claims that it was labour immigration to the United Kingdom that was one of the causes of Brexit, there are no points of view for it, rather on the contrary. Britons most have few problems with foreigners working in the United Kingdom. What the British do not accept are immigrants who do not contribute, who create insecurity, and who weaken the traditional British culture. Such an attitude is fully understandable, and we find it again in many other European countries. It is therefore not right-wing policy that has created the dissatisfaction that exists in the United Kingdom, as Gahr Støre claims. The naïve immigration policy of the left has forced them through a naive and immigration-liberal Europe, which has made people the most upset – a resounding view across large parts of Europe. In other words, the problem is not the 3.5 million EU citizens working in the United Kingdom. There are many from the non-Western world who contribute to the community to a lesser extent and at the same time make the traditional cultural community more fragile – also resonating in the rest of Europe. If the United Kingdom is to succeed in its experiment, the country is totally dependent on reaching an agreement that limits immigration from the countries of the Middle East and North Africa. If it doesn't happen, the mind against the government will become violent, and then it won't be a breeze. It is therefore a paradox that this issue has not yet been given its natural place in the negotiations, but there are also many other sections in the sea. In addition to agreed views in all areas related to trade and the internal market, the challenges are in line. As the representative Tetzschner mentioned, he and I attended a COSAC meeting last week in Tallinn. There we were briefed by, among other things. The EU negotiator with the United Kingdom, Michel Barnier, who stressed that a single market was a prerequisite for all calls. He also said that the United Kingdom should pay its fair share, but no more. The other 27 Member States are not required to pay for 28, as he expressed it. The problem is, of course, to distinguish between the areas that are market-relevant and those that are not. It's a strenuous exercise. How, for example, do you relate to the banking system? What about food security, the European Court of Justice, working conditions, climate regulation, customer rights and cybersecurity? And how do civil disasters coordinate? When all this is in place, the agreement must even be ratified in all the Member States of the Union. In such a perspective, it is much easier to join a Union than to leave it. There's also something to think about. EU competition rules are so extensive that it becomes very difficult, if not impossible, for the UK to find areas where they may favour their own industry. Developments are likely to go the wrong way, and the United Kingdom will lose some of its current competitive advantages as a European and international centre. This applies not least to the financial sector. I want to move a little bit further. Norway is the only non-EU country to participate in the EU defence research pilot scheme. The idea is to make the scheme permanent in 2020. The EU has had the same ambitions several times in the past, but it has been clean in the sand every time. Of course, the idea is good. In theory, it is always more sensible to pool resources in a pool rather than many countries carrying out the same research, but in practice it is not. The probability of equal access to research results is zero. The countries that contribute most financially and which also have the most advanced defence technology already will not share it in the spirit of cooperation. We therefore already feel that the Norwegian defence industry feels excluded. Although the EU has ambitions to make the defence fund permanent and also to include acquisitions, this is most likely to be a blow in the air. 500 million. EUR for research and 1 billion. the euro for acquisition is otherwise small in terms of defence. Then, of course, comes the question of what to acquire, who to produce, who to own, who to have the right to dispose of, who to be in charge of maintenance, and where to locate. And what about the necessary upgrade? It is much easier to establish equal rules in an already defined game than to establish a completely new common game without rules. It is my tip that the EU's commitment to defence research and joint acquisitions will be a flop. True my words, for I know this from my own work in this sector. My advice, therefore, is that Norway rather increases its efforts in the ongoing projects where Norwegian industry is already involved. This applies, for example, to the production of F-35, where it would be necessary for the Norwegian authorities to follow up with funding in order to make the Norwegian defence industry the most equipped possible to ensure Norwegian deliveries. The same is true of our submarine acquisitions. It is therefore a matter of the Norwegian authorities contributing financially to enable Norwegian companies to compete and to obtain large deliveries on, for example. component production to F-35, an unlimited number of F-35 in the long term. It will make the Norwegian defence industry more competitive, have ring-fenced effects on other companies in Norway and will ensure hundreds, if not thousands, of jobs in Norway related to space technology, oil and gas technologies and other technologies that we are completely dependent on for our well-being and prosperity. Defence research, defence technology, defence industry and acquisitions are policies at all levels, and national protectionism in this field is not only natural, it is also wanted and absolutely necessary. Defence technology should not be spread without a restriction, but controlled, and it will be very difficult for 27 countries to research together and get all the technology in defence technology, which some countries will certainly abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e258	On Tuesday, it was 23 years since Norway said no to the EU for the second time. It has proved to be a very wise and forward-looking choice. The majority of Norway voted to maintain national legislation in key areas of society. This may include: the possibility of having a separate, autonomous currency with its own interest rate and the possibility of using fluctuations in the exchange rate as a buffer in the economy, which has proved particularly useful in recent years. It also provided the opportunity to have an autonomous agricultural policy with an ongoing effective customs protection against industrial agriculture in the EU. It gave the opportunity to have its own fisheries policy, against an EU that has fished its own seas empty, and it gave the opportunity to have an independent trade policy, with an independent voice in the world. Our no was a yes to something better. Our no was a yes to democracy, the environment and solidarity. Nothing indicates that the Norwegian people are going to turn around. For more than 12 years, there has been a stable and robust majority against the EU in the Norwegian people. Then one might think that when another country decides to say no to the EU, congratulations from this room would be met, or at least acknowledged nod. But no, then – when the British decide to leave the EU, there are worrying mines, it is expressed that it is sad, and there are problems up and down. Of course, it is a challenge when the British, who have been in the EU for over 40 years, decide to go out, and it also shows the wisdom of what Norway has done by not going in. It's a much better solution than going into the EU and finding that it wasn't so clever, and then trying to mess up again after over 40 years. But basically, the majority of the British people have now made the same choice that the majority of the Norwegian people have made twice. One has said no to join the European Union. And not enough: one has also said that the EEA is not an alternative. The British have said that they will have a new agreement that ensures their autonomy and democracy in a better way than the EEA, and that should also be the ambition of the Norwegian side. The centre party has been against the EEA since the time the agreement was concluded, and now we have also received 65 million Britons. Regardless of whether you think this is good or not, all parties in the Norwegian Grand Duchy must deal with the fact that the United Kingdom, which is the world's fifth to sixth largest economy, has decided to leave the EU. It is a country with which we have close historical cooperation and close cooperation in security policy, they are our neighbours in the south-west with which we share marine areas, and the country in the world with which we have exported most to recent years, where more than 300 Norwegian companies are established. All the parties responsible in Norway have to deal with this new situation. The British are to leave the EU, new agreements will be established in Europe, the EEA belongs to the past, and we need to look ahead and build new cooperation in Europe. Then the government's waiting-and-see attitude was completely wrong. Of course, it's nice that someone follows up on what's going on – it should just be missing. But we need to have an active attitude to take care of national interests. We cannot sit and wait for the European Union. For example, we should have said from day one that if the British want to join EFTA again, they should of course be cordially welcome to it. The British were in EFTA from the start, yes, they were even the initiator of the cooperation, and then there was no need for them to be invited back into the good company. But instead of getting an invitation back, the British have experienced a Norwegian Prime Minister who first warned them not to leave the EU. And when the British didn't listen to it, but they followed their own assessments, Norway says: "It's not safe that we say yes to you coming back, we might use our veto right to our good neighbor in the southwest." And when the British, after Brexit, wanted to establish a cooperation and a working group, the attitude of Norway was reprehensible. What should one do with enemies when one has such friends? In EFTA, we have cooperation with countries like Mexico and Canada, we have trade agreements with Kuwait and Qatar, but we have to be reluctant to be positive towards the United Kingdom. It comes from some of the same politicians who want us into the EU with Poland and Hungary, but we cannot cooperate with the UK. We need a completely different, active position from Norway in order to safeguard Norwegian interests and cooperate with good countries that want to stand outside the EU, as the majority of the Norwegian people have decided by two cross roads in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e279	Two weeks ago, 10,000 workers in the construction industry in the Oslo area went on strike in protest against extensive social dumping, the black economy and the commercial recruitment agencies. The situation in those parts of Norwegian working life in which social dumping persists is a result of the combination of the free flow of labour and the free flow of capital of the EEA Agreement. If we are to have free immigration and free movement in Europe, we must also have the opportunity to control capital, so that immigration does not lead to pressure on wages and employment, both for those who come to Norway to work, and for those who are here before. The situation in the labour market is the main reason why SV is still opposed to the EEA Agreement. When I heard the presentation of the Council of State, the word that was put back in my house was «wanting». It is quite clear that the government and the 'yes' parties want everything back to normal in Europe, but that is not going to happen. I believe that the dream of the social pillar in the EU will remain an illusion, simply because – and this is the main problem with the European Union – it has been much better to implement the interests of the economic elites and large companies and to consolidate the free flow of capital in Europe than to defend the interests of workers. This is how it will continue, simply because all historical experience — not least our own here in Norway — suggests that well-being and distribution are fought from below in a society. It also depends on a certain degree of borders, and the national state has proven to be a good framework for fighting for better distribution. There are explosives in many of the challenges now facing the EU: the refugee crisis and its management, the economic stagnation, the danger of a new financial crisis and a working life in which the burden on those who have the least is exacerbated, whether they are in work or among the many who do not have a job or are at risk of losing their jobs. The relationship between east and west in the EU is becoming more dramatic. That is not least what we see in the management of the refugee crisis and in countries such as Poland and Hungary's development towards so-called illiberal democracies, authoritarian regimes. All EU countries, from Croatia and northwards, categorically refuse to accept their part of the refugee flow. In the economic sphere, we see a contrast between the north and the south, where the Mediterranean countries continue to struggle most with the aftermath of the financial crisis, and where it becomes clearer and clearer that the monetary union to ensure that all EU countries benefit from the same level of interest rates and no currency risk has provided an economic system where there are no equal conditions. A few countries — especially Germany — have taken the most advantage. Government debt developments in Europe are dramatic, and if combined with some economists' predictions of a new financial crisis, there is no basis for the great optimism on behalf of the EU expressed by the Council of State. The most serious thing about the Norwegian EEA debate and the EU debate right now is that yes parties continue to talk as if brexit will have no impact on Norway’s way of dealing with Europe. In this way, we risk taking advantage of a historical opportunity, and regardless of what we might think of the dominant political arguments of the British Leave campaign – I and SV believe a lot about it, a lot of the arguments are far from us – it is nevertheless a reality that we are entering a Europe that will not be marked by an ever closer union, but probably much more different forms of association with the European Union. In this situation, Norway should seize the opportunity, because in fact all the parties here agree that the EEA Agreement is a bad deal. When we had trends towards a new EU debate at the beginning of the 2000s, the Right and the Labour Party argued that the EEA agreement was so bad that Norway had to join the EU. Now we have a historic opportunity to investigate whether it is possible for Norway to replace the EEA with something better, but that possibility will not be used by the ‘yes’ parties. It's incomprehensible. A good place to start would be that we ourselves took the initiative to find out what kind of alternatives to today's EEA agreement are actually possible. That proposal is now on the table in Stortinget, and that should be the next step. We can't have a discussion about the options without the Storting going into serious discussions about what they are at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e296	Europe is now at a crossroads, but I am a Europe-optimist. And unlike previous speakers, from the Centre Party and SV, I and Left believe that the key to Norwegian cooperation with the EU is the EEA Agreement, and that it is Norway's duty to contribute to a positive development that leads to closer European cooperation. One of the things I appreciated most in the State Council's statement was that she made it clear that the EEA Agreement cannot be renegotiated with the first. Too many parties have been involved in the election campaign with the idea of rocking the EEA Agreement, and they continue to do so today, and the result would be a disaster for Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs. We do not need more economic uncertainty, we need security and a predictable framework. The EEA Agreement is also at the heart of all the other agreements and cooperation projects we have with the EU. If one shakes at this base, other arrangements are also at risk. Therefore, I hope that the government will be as crystal clear in the future as in the statement that, like the British, we cannot expect to achieve anything 'Europe à la carte'. As far as brexit is concerned, the Council of State is talking about working hard to find seamless transitions for Norway. This applies primarily to the bilateral relationship between Norway and the United Kingdom. But what about Norway’s influence in the EU when the United Kingdom is emerging? Ever since we first applied for membership of the EC, the United Kingdom has been our main partner in the EU. The British have helped us, the front of Norwegian affairs within the doors of the European Council. When these leave the table, there will be one voice smaller who will speak Norway's case. How does the Council of State think to deal with this loss? The Council of State rightly describes a reform-oriented and positive attitude among EU Member States. The crisis is gaining strength in the Union, and perhaps especially in defence, it seems that countries are now moving closer together. This is an opportunity, but also a challenge for Norway. We are being excluded from the PESCO defence cooperation, even though we are one of the leading contributors to European defence cooperation. Does the State Council have a long-term objective of bringing Norway into PESCO? And if not, how does the Council of State work for us to nevertheless have a voice in this new, important forum? I am pleased that the Council of State stated that the EEA funds must be used in a way that strengthens the rule of law. The EEA funds may be our strongest tool to promote citizens' rights and rule of law within Europe. We have to assume that the situation that we previously only knew from Hungary now also governs everyday life in Poland. Since its election, the Polish government has repeatedly violated the justice system in the country, the media landscape and the government-critical civil society voices. In Parliament, the governing party uses questionable tools to get through even more dubious legislation. They do their best to marginalize the opposition and to crush the public propaganda against them. But there's a big difference between Hungary and Poland. In Poland, there is a united and vital opposition to the government parties, there is a stronger civil society that does not bow to the government's pressure, and there are judges who do not accept the government's over-government of the country's constitution. Therefore, it is important that the EEA funds are used to support civil society and judicial reforms in Poland and other countries. Hungary’s Viktor Orbán described his own regime as ‘an illiberal democracy’. There are no illiberal democracies. Illiberality is an attack on democracy and the institutions of democracy. We must therefore do our part to ensure that Poland does not follow in Orbán's footsteps. European cooperation, the EU and the EEA contribute to the creation of a better Norway. We go further and find solutions that do not stop at Svinesund. The former German Liberal Minister for Foreign Affairs Hans-Dietrich Genscher said about Germany: Europe is our future. There is no option. I believe this also applies to Norway. That is why I am pleased that the government has a high level of ambition in European policy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e317	When the world's fifth largest economy leaves the EU, we have a whole new situation. The EU is no longer the same. The British are now negotiating with the EU an agreement to give greater room for autonomy than the EEA provides. We will probably be shown in the future that there are alternatives to the EEA Agreement, an agreement that both trailers and opponents at home agree that is a democratic failure for Norway. Red wants a referendum on the EEA Agreement. First of all, it is necessary because the EEA Agreement is deeply undemocratic and lacks popular anchoring. It involves a massive transfer of power from elected bodies to the EU. Norway has said no to EU membership twice, but the people were never asked about the EEA Agreement. It is an agreement that not only regulates our trade with the EU but also directly intervenes in Norwegian society. No other trade agreement implies that one party must introduce all the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the other party for its internal market. For that reason, many people call the EEA Agreement – rightly so – a housekeeper agreement. In Norway, there are very many people who are concerned about the development of working life, with extensive social dumping and the crime of working life tearing apart the Norwegian model as we know it, in important industries — one by one. Two measures that will be essential to halt social dumping are, firstly, to reverse the release of agencies and, secondly, to demand equal pension conditions when common welfare is privatised. The EEA Agreement prohibits us from requiring public pay and working conditions to apply when public services are to be offered. In this way, employers can shop for the cheapest tariff agreements and the cheapest tenders, as we have recently done. with the company Orange Health. In the case of rentals from the type of employment agencies to municipally driven hospitals, schools and kindergartens, the EEA Agreement prohibits the municipality from requiring equal pension conditions. The EEA Agreement undermines the very foundation of trade union movement – that it avoids competition under wage and working conditions through national collective agreements and laws. If we are to reverse the negative trend in social dumping and undermining professional rights, we cannot have the EEA Agreement. The agreement gives us the right to import policy from Brussels. Instead, we must have a trade agreement between equivalent parties where there is no unregulated labour market. This is why the LO requires the labour market to be removed from the EEA Agreement. The contract may be terminated with one year's notice. According to Article 120 of the Agreement, despite the horrors we always hear from the EEA members, trade between the EU and Norway is thus regulated by previous agreements. Then the 1974 trade agreement, which ensures market access to the EU, will enter into force. In addition, Norway and all EU countries are members of the WTO, in which case WTO rules will also regulate trade between Norway and the EU from the first moment after an outsourcing. The WTO will prohibit the EU from imposing customs duties or quantitative restrictions on trade with Norway without Norway's agreement. Most of the exports to the EU consist of raw materials and semi-finished products that are inputs in the EU’s production life. Norwegian exports, such as metals, paper and fish, are needed in car factories, printers and the processing industry, which would like the Norwegian goods to be as cheap as possible. For the EU, there is no point or any point in shutting Norwegian oil, gas or other inputs out. We, who are EEA opponents, are likely to have greater faith in the EU's rationality than those who claim that by cancelling the agreement we will experience almost retaliation from the Union. In our view, it's irrational and terrifying propaganda.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e334	I would like to thank you for such a good and constructive debate on the statement I made last week. Cooperation with the EU is an important topic that deserves increased attention in Norwegian public opinion and good discussions in this room. I stand by and am happy to note that we see a more positive picture in Europe today than what my predecessors could present just one year ago. The cohesion, optimism and creativity of European cooperation are significantly greater than just one year ago, and it is also fundamentally positive for Norway. We have not joined the EU, but we have never signed up out of Europe, and Europe is our most important economic, political and value-added community. The European Union, with its 28 – almost 27 – Member States, is the strongest expression of the cooperation we see in Europe, and in order to safeguard Norwegian interests, we need an active policy to cooperate with the EU in the areas we need it. To the representative of Marthinsen and the points on the social pillar, I would like to say that I believe it is absolutely essential for Europe's future that both the EU and the EU Member States be able to ensure inclusive economic growth in the future. This means that we also have to meet the challenges that free movement of labour and free movement of services create in terms of the unprofessional elements of working life, which do not follow the rules of the game, which violate the work environment legislation, and which reduce taxes. It is an important initiative to address. In December 2016, the Nordic Labour Ministers made a contribution to the Social Pillar, which stressed that the social pillar must respect the different national labour market models and that the social partners and collective bargaining play an important role in the Nordic labour market. We're going to make sure that the values we have in our Nordic welfare model are not put at risk in the future development of several common solutions in this field as well. Then we should also bear in mind that in the case of free movement of labour, it is easy to see only possible negative aspects, but the labour we have picked up from many of the EU Member States has been crucial for the Norwegian economy, for Norwegian value creation and for Norwegian companies to have their jobs and labour available. It was said that the EEA Agreement belongs to the past. It doesn't do that in any way. It is Norway’s most important agreement with our closest partners. The EEA Agreement contributes to the security of Norwegian welfare, and the absence of an EEA agreement will have negative consequences for the Norwegian economy, Norwegian jobs and most people. It is the government’s view that Norway is best served with this agreement. It is a wishful thinking – a word that was used – to believe that we can today order a new and better agreement from the EU that meets the Norwegian needs in this area. The EU has made it quite clear in the process we are in now: it is not possible to be halfway within and halfway outside the internal market. It is not possible to opt out of one of the four freedoms and keep the others. It is not possible to leave the internal market and at the same time continue to affect the development of the rules. There will not be a future partnership without common rules and there will not be close trade links without equal competition. We see that the models that exist for trade cooperation with the EU and other countries are quite different from the EU's internal market. The EU internal market removes barriers to trade, which means that Norwegian products, Norwegian exports, meet the standards in force throughout the internal market. For example, every day we send 170 car trains with Norwegian sea food to the European market. Because the EEA Agreement includes veterinary legislation, there can be no control of the fish on the way to the EU market. Brexit: It is absolutely essential that Norway safeguard its interests in Brexit. Part of ensuring Norwegian interests in Brexit is that if the EU and the United Kingdom agree on transitional solutions that extend the internal market and the application of the internal market legislation, it must also apply to Norway. On the Marthinsen issue, it is a very central point for us to communicate both to the EU side and to the United Kingdom that if there is a consensus on the continuation of the internal market during a transitional period, it must, of course, apply to all countries in the internal market, including the EEA countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e353	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e359	The representative Tybring-Gjedde represents the government fraction here in Stortinget, and for that reason I listened carefully to what he said in his post. I believe that it is very relevant for the Storting to know whether the Council of State believes that the views expressed by Tybring-Gjedde in its speech are representative of the government's attitude towards the EU and her view of his position on all the circumstances surrounding Norway's relationship with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e364	It is clear that, as parties, the representatives in this room have a slightly different approach to issues related to cooperation with the EU. I support much of what was said about the need for close cooperation between Norway and the United Kingdom, for example, which was highlighted by the representative of Tybring-Gjedde. So I don't feel that there was anyone – let's say – unlike the government's policy of securing close relations between the United Kingdom and Norway after Brexit in the future. As for the view of whether we believe it is going to be a strength for the United Kingdom to leave the European Union, none of us are sitting with that fasit. There the government has expressed that it had seen, also for the cooperation between the United Kingdom and us, that the United Kingdom had remained a member of the European Union, and that it has great consequences for us also that they leave the internal market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e371	It is politically sympathetic and understandable that the Council of State will not challenge a representative of a government party directly. But he challenged her clearly, and her posts have a completely different profile and a completely different attitude than what he expresses. The essence of Tybring-Gjedde's contributions was the criticism of free labour immigration. He was directly opposed to it, as I heard it. I see that he shakes his head, President, but he gets that when he could possibly come back to – I heard it at least like this. In any case, I would like to hear the State Council's comment on that part of his posts that had a clearly negative profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e376	I realized that Tybring-Gjeded's posts were largely concerned with the analysis of brexit and what led up to brexit, and that this was in connection with labour immigration. I also heard that the representative Tybring-Gjedde was aware that the government's policy is that the EEA Agreement is solid. As I said, the analysis of the reasons for the brexit we may have our different assessments of, but I did not understand that Tybring-Gjedde suggested that Norway should not be included in the free flow of labour either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e381	I noticed that the Council of States says that on the EU side, there is no indication that a person may have any different variants of agreements, while on the EU side, the practice is that one has more than 200 different agreements in a 40s of different variants. Some are pure trade agreements, while others are agreements, such as: Switzerland has, which does not have all four freedoms, and where it is not its own agreement for services. However, on the concrete issues of Norway's relationship with the United Kingdom and the EFTA track: Central Swiss politicians have raised and said that the UK must be able to come back to EFTA. Just after Brexit, the former Icelandic president said that he thought Brexit was positive for our territory in the world. He looked at the possibilities that lay in it and wanted the British back in EFTA. But also the Trade Committee in the House of Commons has said that one recommends that one go in and look at the possibilities here, that one has a close link between the British economy and the EFTA countries, and highlights the positive benefits. My question is: Has this been addressed by the British with the Norwegian authorities, and how have the Norwegian authorities responded?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e390	We refer to the official position expressed on the British side, and it is that they do not consider either the EEA Agreement or EFTA membership as a current scenario for the United Kingdom now. That's what we're dealing with. Then, of course, we can have a debate about whether it would have been positive or negative for Norway, but we are concerned that it has not been addressed by the United Kingdom. So we haven't started a process to evaluate the different sides of it either, because it's clear that it has positive sides, and it can also have some challenges to it. For the discussion on possible models, and just to underline it: of course, the EU has cooperation with a number of countries on trade, but there is something quite different than the internal market, and it is not easy to imagine that we are going to achieve some very specific advantages and get rid of difficult aspects. Switzerland tried to limit labour immigration from the EU. They were then excluded from research and education cooperation. Finally, Switzerland decided to turn around, because it was important for them to be part of Horizon 2020. So we can't believe we're going to be able to order the good parts of the deal that we want, but not the rest. It's not easy to imagine.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e397	In concrete terms, what industries will lose market access to the EU if the EEA Agreement is replaced by WTO rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e402	For Norwegian business, access to the internal market is crucial and is more than a matter of customs. For example, Røros, one of the most profitable office chair producers in Europe, has stated that the company depends on good access to the European market: with 160 jobs the enterprise is the largest job in the district. Most of the sales go abroad. Stable and free access to the market helps the factory to operate economically despite the distance from the market. In a survey carried out by the NHO, nine out of ten exporting companies in the West have said that the EEA Agreement is important for their business. So I don't know who in the business representative gets assurances that it would have been perfectly good to cancel the EEA Agreement and bet that we get free trade with the EU, but the feedback we get is that access to the internal market, equal standards and a level playing field for business are important for Norwegian value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e409	The Council of State did not answer my question because it was quite concrete: what industries will lose access to the European market if the EEA Agreement is replaced by WTO rules? The reason why I ask is that the government confirms, at the latest in the State Council speeches, that it will have a significant negative impact on Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs. Is it vision, or has the government actually made an investigation of what is the alternative? Because I thought that was what the government refused to do, but it may be the government then has extensive knowledge of what the consequences will be. So I repeat my question: what industries will lose market access?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e416	WTO legislation will decide which customs rates may apply if we consider a situation without an EEA agreement. That's going to be what we have to fall back on. This also applies to the United Kingdom, if we do not have an agreement with them after Brexit, so there is a risk that there will be a customs duty on exports for some parts of Norwegian business. We also had experience from 1973 until 1994, when anti-dumping measures on the part of the European Union affected, for example. Norwegian metal industry, because it was accusations that we supported the industries through favourable power agreements. So we have experience in the past that not having a stable and predictable framework for trade with the EU creates challenges for Norwegian business, in concrete terms, in different industries. As far as the fisheries sector is concerned, we are part of the veterinary legislation which is crucial for the rapid achievement of the EU market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e423	Let's look at Norwegian business. In the context of the EU Energy Union, the Council of State points out that Norway has a different starting point than many EU Member States: ‘We have a power supply based on renewable hydropower, and we are a major energy exporter. This makes it important to have an active position from the Norwegian side in order to safeguard Norwegian interests.’ In what way does the Council of State consider that the subordination of the EU Energy Agency Acer, which will have extensive power to regulate Norwegian power exports, harmonises the interests of the Norwegian power-intensive industry, and not least the concerns of Norwegian consumers and the electricity price?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e434	The development of the Energy Union is a key act of the European Commission. It is about ensuring a well-functioning energy market throughout Europe, and it is, of course, about achieving the ambitious climate targets set by the EU by 40 pst. reduction of emissions. Norway will be affected by both of these processes. We follow it closely. We've had a deregulated power market since the 1990s. We have a functioning Nordic power market in which we exchange power with our neighbouring country. We have renewable energy to export to the European power market, and we have gas exports, which now covers 25 pst. of EU demand. So it is clear that Norway has important interests here. We're taking a good position. ACER will play a role in resolving disagreements between national power regulators. It's going to be like this that we still have a lot of national control over our own energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e441	In its presentation, the Council of State gave the impression that the transfer of sovereignty to EU financial supervision was necessary to ensure Norwegian financial industry access to the EU market. It is worth remembering that, according to ABC Nyheter, during the Question Time of 25 May last year, the Minister of Finance said twice that Norwegian financial institutions will be excluded from the EU market if Norway is not linked to EU financial supervision. But the government had to admit later that it was wrong. The Central Party then asked, as it is now, how banks from the United States, Switzerland, Japan, Singapore and a large number of other countries could have access to the EU market without transferring sovereignty to EU financial supervision. Can the Council of State provide one single example of a country that has lost or weakened market access to the EU as a result of a lack of sovereignty?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e448	After all, the Stortinget has now approved this scheme that has been put in place for financial supervision. I am glad that the question has been resolved. Then I repeat what I have said earlier, that there is a great difference between market access and being part of an internal market with common legislation, common implementation of the common regulation. And we must realize that with the internal market there are also monitoring mechanisms. We have ESA to deal with. It's institutions that want to make sure it's a level playing field, i.e. it's a level playing field. In this way, it is difficult to compare a country that is in the internal market with a country that may only have a free trade agreement, so I did not fully understand what the representative was after there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e455	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e460	I believe that the presentation by the Council of State as we heard it when it was presented was a good example of the importance of the EEA Agreement to Norway. At a time when nationalism in Europe is constantly being exacerbated in several countries, it is of particular importance and political importance to understand that international cooperation is a fundamental prerequisite for ensuring democracy and the basis for economic growth. I also say this as a comment to my good colleagues – at least indirectly – claims that the nation state alone will solve these problems better. I disagree. I believe that international cooperation is a prerequisite for us to do both to strengthen democracy and to manage economic growth properly. I also agree with what is said, including: by the representative Lysbakken in this debate, that we should take on board that the EU as an institution and as a system has not given sufficient attention to the interests of the workers and ordinary peoples in the development of the European Community. It is a fundamental recognition of the political nature that I believe is of great importance to us. Because there is no contradiction between being a member of international cooperation and international agreements and taking care of the wide range of interests of the population in European societies. This is on the contrary, at my discretion, a prerequisite for each other. I notice that the Council of State is somewhat too modest, I would say, engaged in the questions that have been raised in this debate – and did so too modestly in its presentation – on the relationship to development in Norwegian working life. It can rock throughout the development of stability in working life, and it's caused by a lot of things. I have said in many debates in Norway, and also in an international context, that the main challenge is the influence of the right-wing parties in the national parliaments, their unwillingness to protect trade union movements and the interests of workers. We have also seen this as a clear development in Norway over recent years, namely the government's lack of willingness to enter heavily into that part of Norwegian society. However, we hear from very many teams – and that is what is relevant to us in this context – that the EEA Agreement limits the possibility of ensuring the pay and working conditions of employees, including in Norway. We see it with our own eyes, and that is said in this debate. It is a question that arises: although, for my part, I am strongly in favour of the EEA Agreement and all the circumstances it creates, this debate should not end until we hear the more clear statements of the Council of State on what she intends to do in terms of using the space for action provided by the EEA Agreement when it comes to safeguarding employees' interests in Norway. For these interests are going to be crucial to preventing the challenges of inequality, and they are going to be crucial for a stable working life. And for representatives from the right, it should be of great interest to understand that this is also the prerequisite for the value creation in Norway, for those who have money and are employers, to actually become stable and good – in the time to come. Pretending that relationship doesn't exist, I've never understood it. The fact that the EEA Agreement creates problems for the implementation of effective regulation, the management of social dumping and undermines trade movement and collective bargaining agreements is a problem-solving germ and undermines the legitimacy of the EEA Agreement. I would like the Council of State to take the call from me to talk more about this, so that this debate could become a step forward towards a better and more coherent attitude in the fight against the part of the development of working life that the EEA Agreement is also contributing to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e475	First, I would like to thank the Minister for a thorough presentation of important developments in Europe through which Norway is actually affected. We are experiencing a challenging security policy situation in Europe. The continent has been struck by terror sprang out of unstable regimes in the Middle East and North Africa, and we see a Russia that has annexed Crimea, across international law, and fired under destabilising forces in Eastern Europe. In such a situation, it is important that Europe cooperates more closely in the field of security policy. In this picture, the EU has an important role, which Norway also has an interest in the success of the EU. Coordination and cooperation between NATO and the EU is becoming more important. It is important in this situation that this is done in an open manner and that Norway is involved in this at an early stage and in a formal way. The EU's internal market is Norway's second most important market. The EEA Agreement provides for access to the EU's internal market and it is in Norway's interest to maintain this market access. Brexit is not without interest in Norway — of course — and it can also affect Norway, but in this situation it is important to stick to our cooperation with the EU and to stick to the existing agreement, which is to be implemented. During the last year, strong voices have promoted increased protectionism, less free trade and more isolationism. Such developments will be very serious for Norway. Norway has a small economy, 80 pst. of our exports goes to the internal market, and 60 pst. of our imports come from the internal market. Our export companies are facing a very demanding competitive situation. The EEA Agreement is a protection for Norwegian export companies in a situation where they have to compete in the global market. In fact, the EEA Agreement is vital for Norwegian export companies, and Norwegian export companies are vital for Norway. There's reason to remember that it's actually the exports we live on, not the imports, that can sometimes be led to believe in our time of consumption. Dismantling the EEA Agreement will be a high game and a dangerous game for Norway. We hear the political party in this room that has that ambition: it's the Center Party, it's SV, and it's Red. Dismantling the EEA Agreement will mean a setback for Norwegian enterprises, it will put jobs at risk over the whole country, and it will undermine the basis for our long-term well-being. Norway has 5 million people, and the EU's internal market consists of 500 million people. So through this agreement, we have access to a market that is 100 times larger than our own market. It goes without saying that this is an agreement that is important to fence and that has served Norway well since 1994.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e492	There should be no doubt that the EEA Agreement – the main framework for Norway’s cooperation with the EU – has served Norwegian interests well, not least business interests. The EU's internal market is the largest integrated market in the world where goods and services can circulate freely and where Norwegian companies have a level playing field with other companies in EU countries. Almost 80 pst. Norwegian exports go to the EU and more than 60 pst. imports from Norway come from EU countries. Through the EEA Agreement, Norway serves around 25 million fish meals to Europeans every day. The fresh fish is sent directly from Norwegian producers to the European market without any deterioration in the quality of border controls. ==References== 90 pst. of all oil production is sold to the EU market and almost all gas is delivered through pipelines to Europe. The EEA Agreement is not just about market access. It is also about education, it is about joint research projects, it is about knowledge sharing, and it is not least about common standardisation. Norway is not a lonely island. We're part of Europe, whether we want it or not. We depend on cooperation with Europe in many areas, not least on refugee and migration issues. We are located on the outskirts of Europe and are the last station for many of these migrants. We are totally dependent on migration and refugee flows being stopped and managed before they reach our borders. There is a need for good European – but also global – cooperation here. The EEA Minister and EU Minister drew a picture of an EU changing. There is an internal debate in the Union on the way forward. Are more integration, more regional integration or more integration of selected fields of action to be pursued? EU changes can also lead to changes in Norway’s relationship with the EU. It is therefore important that we keep up with the hour, so that Norwegian interests can continue to be safeguarded in the future. This applies not least to brexit. One of Europe’s and the world’s largest economies — and one of Norway’s main trading partners — is now leaving the EU. Norway is not an ordinary third country, and we must be included in the common solutions between the EU and the United Kingdom. It is important to ensure that the relationship between Norway and the United Kingdom is as close as possible even after Brexit is effective. It is still uncertain what kind of agreement needs to be in place when the United Kingdom leaves the EU and the EEA. It is therefore important to put in place a transitional arrangement with the United Kingdom in areas currently covered by the EEA Agreement. The Progress Party will not hide the fact that there are some problematic aspects of the EU and the EEA Agreement. The party has taken a clear no position as a result of the increasingly clear supranational direction taken by the EU. We believe that this is harmful to European democracy in the long term. We have also focused on the export of social security benefits, where significant amounts of Norwegian welfare benefits are paid to people living abroad. In June this year, the Government issued a communication announcing a series of new measures that will limit the possibility of taking social security benefits out of the country. We believe that there may be unfortunate incentives when benefits adapted to a Norwegian cost level are paid in countries where they provide significantly better purchasing power for the recipient. Several measures have already been implemented, including: by tightening the possibility of receiving family benefits abroad and by introducing housing requirements to qualify for cash support. Exports of social security benefits are also a topic discussed by bodies in the EU and in EU countries, among others. with a view to obtaining a purchasing power adjustment. This shows that social security exports are not a particular problem and that Norway should take the opportunity to work for necessary changes in the EU serving both Norwegian and European interests. It is very important that Norway both influence and actively participate in the policy processes in order to make our views and interests felt, both in terms of matters relating to the EEA Agreement, to the economy, to security and, in particular, to migration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e515	The central party is fighting for the people of Norway to control the development of the country. We do not want to transfer sovereignty to supranational bodies where Norwegian voters can no longer influence who they are governed by. In its presentation, the Council of State gave the impression that the transfer of sovereignty to EU financial supervision was necessary to ensure the access of the financial industry to the EU market. I asked instead, but unfortunately I did not get any examples that countries have been weakened by market access as a result of a lack of sovereignty. In the proposal on EU financial supervision, which was discussed last year by the Stortinget, the government was clear: it must be expected that the EU will give agencies and supervision an even more prominent role in the future. The government further wrote that: ‘Norway must have an offensive and solution-oriented approach in order to ensure participation in relevant agencies and supervision, although this may involve some challenges of an institutional or legal nature’. The Councils of State indicated in the speeches that the framework for Norwegian participation in the EU Energy Agency Acer has now been put in place. The majority is now faced with a decisive choice: Will we give additional Norwegian sovereignty? Do we want to do this in such a crucial field for Norway as the energy sector? I strongly doubt that there is any claim or wish in the Norwegian people about this. It's just through sovereignty over our natural resources, and wise management of them, that we've built the best societies in the world. Giving up sovereignty in this area is something the Center Party thinks we should be extremely careful with. Morten Harper clearly describes the possible consequences of this: ‘Today we have a Nordic electricity market with a surplus of power that provides low prices. With multiple transmission cables, we get a high-priced European electricity market. The EU competition rules will then take effect, which prohibits Norwegian industry from being protected. In addition, ACER will monitor and adopt rules to ensure that the flow flows for market reasons, not national considerations.» If the Storting follows the EU's will, the EU Energy Agency will have the power to take binding decisions for Norway through the mandates of ACER and ESA. If the regulatory authority of Norway and another EU country disagree, the EU Energy Agency may have the power to take binding decisions in case of disagreement relating to cross-border infrastructure or technical issues in the energy market. Have we made it clear enough what is going on that day of Norway and another country, for example. do the costs related to the development of energy transmission cables differ from one another? The Council of State said that in order to ensure that we can maintain close cooperation with the United Kingdom even after their withdrawal from the EU, we need to be well prepared. The Central Party fully agrees with this. The British referendum on EU membership has created a whole new dynamic in Europe and can provide alternatives to the EU's objectives of an increasingly closer union. Norway has to exploit the opportunities created by the new situation on an offensive basis. Where possible, Norway should actively cooperate with the United Kingdom to create an alternative link with the EU, ensuring both market access and national self-determination. The Central Party has therefore promoted a proposal for a representative asking the Government to set up a wide-ranging public body to carry out a thorough and broadest possible review of the consequences of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU and Norway’s alternatives to the EEA Agreement. It will be very exciting to see if the Right will support our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e546	Let me start by thanking the Council of State for a broad explanation, a statement that was heavy and good for analysis, but perhaps a little bit thinner on the important and difficult question: what does this mean for Norway, and how can we best promote Norwegian interests? The tide is turning rapidly in Europe, pointed out to the Council of State. There's a lot of dynamics in what's going on. Brexit could have many different consequences for the rest of the EU, and there is also considerable uncertainty about what it will mean for Norway. There is dynamism in cooperation also in security and defence policy. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence gave an opinion in June on the communication on the road choices in foreign policy, which specifically addressed issues related to the impact of foreign and security policy on Norway as a result of an EU without the United Kingdom. It points out that it is open to further deepening the cooperation on security and defence policy between EU countries. And now something happens all of a sudden. In the State Council statement, it was said that the EU is now setting up new instruments. These include: the launch of permanent structured military cooperation, known as PESCO. It is expected to be discussed at the EU Summit in December. There are different opinions about whether there's something fundamentally new, or whether it's just a continuation of an existing cooperation, followed by a new acronym. The representative Raja was involved in his speech, and I had hoped that the Council of State would answer: How will Norway position itself? The government is still familiar with both a foreign minister and a State Council for EU and EEA matters, but perhaps it is difficult for the Council of State to sort out here, because EU policy and foreign policy collide here. It's possible that it's demanding. Let me give a preliminary signal from the Labour Party: we believe that NATO must be the most important. It's the organization we have that has a real collective defence capability and real collective defence obligations. I hope the government uses the opportunity to come back and brief the Storting on how the development of PESCO will be. The EU is a political cooperation and a political project and engages on many different fronts. Last week the Parliamentary Forum of the Fifth Northern Dimension was organised in Brussels. There is cooperation between Iceland, Norway, the EU and Russia. It includes cooperation on common interests in key areas such as culture, infrastructure and transport, health and the environment in the north. There is also similar cooperation on the government side. We have important resources, and we have important common interests with the partners, and in the same way that the cooperation in the Arctic Council underlines the importance of working with these partners on areas in which we have common interests, it should also be linked to the northern dimension. Unfortunately, cooperation is somewhat hampered by sanctions and the consequences of Russia's violation of international law, but let me take the opportunity to say that the final declaration of the Forum, from the parliaments represented, underlines the importance of continuing dialogue and political meetings in the northern dimension if we are to be able to cooperate on common interests in the north. Another challenge we are facing is the increasing importance of the European Parliament and how we are to intervene on the Norwegian side with the initiatives that are coming there. This week, one of the Committees of the European Parliament gave a position on the basis of a so-called self-initiated report, this time on how international maritime governance – or «ocean governance», which is the English term, should be conducted. The problem is that that report challenges the existing international law relating to which countries have which rights. It uses similar formulations and positions contained in the European Parliament's report on the EU Arctic Strategy. Both the Grand Duchy and the Government are committed to the European Parliament, but we still have problems getting on the road early enough and have a good enough overview of what is happening. Let me conclude by calling on both the government and the parties in the Grand Duchy to work politically with the European Parliament, of course through official channels, such as the European Parliament. delegations, but also by using their party-political communication lines to address and protect Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e569	Six months after the entry into force of the EEA Agreement, the VG wrote that Ålesundfisk AS welcomed the EEA Agreement. In only six months they had increased exports by 25 pst. in relation to the previous year, at a value of 40 million. kr. This ensures jobs – not in Oslo, but along the whole coast. In the debate on transport, we often justify the importance of investment in infrastructure in the districts because ‘there is no less time than a dead salmon on the way to the EU’. So we are building the way for billions to secure Norwegian jobs and one of Norway's most important industries, but we forget that trade infrastructure also ensures efficient transport through the dismantling of trade barriers. Without harmonisation of legislation, we are building a trade route consisting of speed dumps. Almost 60 pst. Norwegian maritime food exports go to the EU. We will probably be able to sell fish to our largest market if Norway cancels the EEA Agreement, but it is the EEA Agreement that ensures that Norway is harmonised with the EU in the veterinary field, which means that the 170 vehicle combinations with fish that go from Norway to the EU every day will not be in line for veterinary border controls between Norway and the EU – a commercial traffic dump we remove by participating in the continuous and coordinated regulatory development that the EEA Agreement ensures. L.A. Chief Hans-Christian Gabrielsen says he is now against the EU, but is a member of the EEA, and he explains this by saying that before the EEA Agreement many Norwegian companies experienced customs barriers and problems in exporting their goods: ‘Today the EEA Agreement provides a predictable framework for our business and jobs to our members.’ I really believe that this is not a matter of concern – that it is logically not possible to be against the EU and the EEA. One must be for the EU in order to have an EEA agreement, but one may disagree that Norway is involved in determining the laws and regulations we ourselves are so dependent on implementing in order to safeguard Norwegian jobs and Norwegian interests. The EEA Agreement is more than a trade agreement, although it links us to an internal market with 27 countries that are constantly working to reduce trade barriers and ensure a level playing field between countries. It also links us to a continuous effort to strengthen consumer rights and protection. It was the EEA Agreement that in 1994 Norwegian municipalities had to start digging up water pipes because water quality was too poor and did not reach EU standards. The State Institute for Public Health calculated that 300 000 sick days per year were due to poor drinking water. In 2013, consumers paid almost eight times the real cost of mobile data while travelling in Europe. The EEA Agreement has ensured that Norwegian mobile customers can now use mobile data in all EU countries without any additional cost. In order for Norwegian banks to obtain money from the European financial market in order to provide loans to Norwegian businesses and mortgages to Norwegian families, Norwegian financial laws and regulations must be harmonised with EU regulatory requirements, irrespective of EU financial supervision. But much can be done better, including in European cooperation. There is a need for increased coordinated action against labour crime at European level. That is why I am very pleased that the Prime Minister has taken the initiative of Norway inviting the EU to step up cooperation in the fight against cross-border labour-life crime. Although freer trade and simpler border crossings provide opportunities for Norwegian businesses and secure Norwegian jobs, they undoubtedly present challenges, especially for some industries. We see that work-life crime has become more comprehensive and more strongly organised. These cases often have international ramifications, with businesses moving rapidly from country to country. They are therefore difficult to detect for national control authorities. To succeed in the fight against criminals, European countries must work more closely together. Another initiative I appreciate comes from the EU itself. We need up-to-date international laws and regulations for the transparency and taxation of multinational companies to combat aggressive tax planning and tax evasion. This was a theme for EU finance ministers when they met in September and taxation of digital service production was a topic. I wish Norway could sit at that table. The European Community is so infinitely more than trade. It is also a community of values, built over hundreds of years, where trade has led to the exchange of new ideas, traditions and knowledge. I say as others have said about the EEA, both in this debate and in the past: the EEA Agreement has served Norway and Norwegian interests well. Those who want a better deal, as I wish, thus want to become a full member.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e591	The President will, at the hearing of the representative, only recall that the expression ‘does not depend upon’ has been noted from this point of view on previous occasions. It's in the strictest layer, maybe, but anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e596	The Council of State began its presentation in an optimistic tone: ‘The coherence, optimism and creativity of European cooperation are significantly greater than just one year ago.’ I agree. But there are also trends in several countries that are worrying. Fortunately, the secondary right-wing forces were set back in the elections in the Netherlands, France and Germany. But it marches again political forces in countries like Poland and Hungary that we hoped we would not see again, and there are governments that threaten to undermine important principles of power distribution in a democracy. That is what I would call national populism, which can undermine our common ability to meet the greatest and most important challenges: climate debris, refugee and migration challenges, but also poverty reduction and job growth. For the integration of the economy between countries, there is no renationalisation. As a result, there may be a tension between political illusions and political realities that undermines policy's ability to address the challenges that increasingly require international cooperation and, preferably, commitment to cooperation. If we are to fool ourselves into the illusion that it is in this Chamber – and in all other national parliaments – all power will exist, it will go wrong. I think this is so evident in the debate that is taking place in the United Kingdom around Brexit. The vision is to go out of EU cooperation to become world champions in free trade – nothing less. It should therefore be left out of its largest and most important market, the European neighbouring countries, while leaving the EU trade agreements with 50 other countries. The United Kingdom starts off on a barbed ground and will negotiate agreements with the EU, with us and with 50 other countries, just to maintain something close to the status quo. And what is Prime Minister Theresa May doing? Yes, she travels around asking for a copy of the agreements with the EU. Those who thought or hoped that brexit would lead to new and better opportunities also for Norway should follow closely. So far, everything suggests that what the British will ask when the negotiations for a trade agreement with the EU begin is as close as possible to what they have. This can be understood, for something better is not possible with their main export market, the European neighbouring countries. The government follows the negotiations. We are being kept informed by the European Union. That is good, because the United Kingdom is an important trading partner, which has been pointed out by many. Surveys are being prepared, according to the Council of State, on where new agreements will be needed in areas currently covered by the EEA Agreement. There will hardly be much disagreement in this Chamber that we need to cooperate as closely with the British as possible, even outside trade policy. But it could be of interest to the Storting whether the government could soon lighten up a little bit on the veil and specify what this includes. For what the Council of State says in this statement, does not differ so much from what has been said by the pastors. Then, in this debate by several, it has been claimed that brexit will give us alternatives to the EEA Agreement, as if it does not exist. There are now several layers of cooperation, integration, in Europe. One has EU and euro members as the innermost core. Then you have the EU members without the euro. Then we have the EEA, which makes us – the three EFTA countries in the EEA – full participants in the internal market, without voting rights. Then Switzerland’s agreements, which do not cover an equal part of the internal market as the EEA, but where Switzerland must also accept the four freedoms. Then the EU has a customs union covering EU members and Turkey, and there is a discussion about the United Kingdom should be part of it. And outside there you have trade agreements, and you have partnership agreements. That's the possibilities that lie there. There are no more possibilities, if you had to dream about it. Moreover, I think those who want what they call a better deal than the EEA can define what they mean better – better for who, and for what? Because there is no doubt that if you think about the market access and opportunities of business in our most important export market, there is only one better alternative than the EEA Agreement, and that is membership, because then we also get influence. There's nothing out there that gives the same rights. Then you ask what is the difference between the trade agreement and the EEA agreement. Well, the difference is that you're part of a common code, common standards. It can then be certain that the Spanish shipyards will not win the competition for Norwegian frigates because they are granted State aid or dormant with the HMS rules. I think that's important. Trade today is less and less about what's happening at the border, less and less about customs barriers and more and more about connecting to international value chains. 30 pst. Norwegian imports are inputs to Norwegian exports. That's what's the difference. So the representative says Gülsvik that the British are going out, and the EEA belongs to the past. No, it certainly does not belong to the past, and it is more important than ever to take care of the EEA Agreement. Then we are on the question that Gælsvik raised, whether we should not invite the United Kingdom back to EFTA. Now the British themselves have said that this is not the case. Should they change their mind, it is clear that we need to have a thorough debate on this. But it is not obvious that it is an advantage for the four EFTA countries, which are relatively homogeneous in their commercial interests, to bring in such a large player as the United Kingdom. You could think that we're going to get 70-80 million Britons as an extra market. In some contexts it can mean market disruption, and so it can be a negative. In addition, the whole EFTA centre of gravity will change. This is not about our trade agreement with Mexico and the other countries with which we have agreements. If the United Kingdom is going into EFTA, they must accept the Lugano Convention. There is also free movement of persons. So I think we'll think about it very carefully. I think the representative Lysbakken points to good analysis. The tension between east and west in the EU is increasing. The economic contradictions between the north and the south are increasing. It's hard to handle the refugee flow. But would any of the problems have been easier to deal with without the commitment of EU cooperation? I'm not able to understand that. Just think about what the EU has done to get rid of banking secrecy in Liechtenstein and Switzerland, and how they now continue to work against tax havens and the low tax system. It requires international cooperation, and I do not understand that people who believe to be radical and would fight these things believe that the international cooperation that is driving this work forward is something we have to stay as far away as possible. The representative of Tybring-Gjedde thought that brexit gave us new opportunities to strengthen cooperation with the United Kingdom. I don't get it either. What does the EEA Agreement prevent us from strengthening cooperation with the United Kingdom in addition to what we have today? On the contrary, possibilities are reduced. He points out that it is a popular student country. Yes, it has not been given that we have opportunities that today when the British leave the internal market, with the free movement of people. The same will apply to research cooperation. It requires a great deal of exchange of researchers. So I think the opportunities can be reduced by the United Kingdom leaving EEA cooperation, and we have to build it on a trade agreement. What it looks like, we don't know, but we know -- if the British insist on what they've said -- that it's not going to include the free movement of people. They will not be part of the internal market. Michael Tetzschner has been to Tallinn and listened to Barnier. That's what I'm sure was interesting, to hear the debate in the COSAC meeting. He's become more optimistic that we're getting into a so-called divorce agreement. I think so, too. But I don't think the challenges are getting smaller when you're going to go into the next stage and start discussing the trade agreement. As far as the issue of outsourcing is concerned, the 27 countries have agreed, but as far as trade agreements are concerned, the different national interests will emerge. Just think of the problems of fishing resources in British waters, which the British want back, and on which the French are fishing to a large extent today. So it's going to be very interesting to follow in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e641	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e646	Most of us have it safe and sound at work, but not all. Some work without safety equipment, get lost for pay, get sick money and live in a bad place. Often, there are vulnerable people without a job, a family or a place to live who are visited by criminal environments with promises of gold and green forests. And that's exactly what it is -- empty promises that are never fulfilled. The criminality of working life can focus on everything from tax fraud to violations of pay and working conditions and the use of illegal labour. In many cases, we also talk about criminal networks with businesses that move quickly from country to country, making it more difficult to detect for national control authorities. The fight against criminal actors in the labour market is therefore a common challenge, cross-sectoral and cross-border. For work-life crime, values we in Norway are undermining. The criminal actors are a destructive force. They exploit vulnerable people, serious businesses lose jobs, and society loses income that could have been spent on school, health and well-being. That is why I am pleased that Prime Minister Erna Solberg, in his letter to the European Commission on 10 November, pointed to the need for a common European strategy against crime at work. This initiative is important, and it is very positive to see it being followed up by the government. Norway has good experience in international cooperation in this field. We actively participate in the new European Platform against Black Work, and the Norwegian Labour Inspectorate is included in these days’ cooperation agreements with the Labour Inspectorate in Lithuania, Poland, Bulgaria and Romania. Joint supervision and exchange of inspectors between countries are to be carried out because we want to learn from each other and to improve the exchange of information. Norway wishes to invite another European country to participate in a pilot project on operational cooperation against crime at work, involving police, tax, social security and labour inspectorate. By participating in practical cooperation with the corresponding authorities of another country, the control authorities of one country may cooperate on controls, exchange inspectors, share experiences with each other and, not least, develop joint information actions. The modern labour market crosses national borders, and so does the crime of working life. If we are to have a good and serious working life, the rules of the game must be followed. Crime at work, serious crime and criminal activity must be prevented and combated across borders. What is important now is that all of us contribute to the implementation of our methods and actions at European level, and that we support EEA cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e665	Norwegian membership of the EU Energy Agency, Acer, is being discussed in Stortinget. The aim is to establish and regulate a common electricity and gas network and the legislation requires that no national account be taken of it. It is also proposed that the Acer Board should take decisions by a simple majority. It is the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA – which ensures compliance with the EEA Agreement – that ensures compliance with ACER’s legislation and decisions. Therefore, if adopted, ESA shall seek the opinion of ACER in the event of doubt as to the interpretation of legislation and decisions. In other words, the board of ACER will decide, because ESA is careful that Norway complies with the rules of ACER – so complicated and so simple. This has been confirmed by the Minister of Oil and Energy in an intervention in the nations earlier this year under the title ‘No threat to Norwegian sovereignty’. There, Minister for Oil and Energy, Terje Søvikne, described the process as follows: ‘For Norway, adjustments have been made to take decisions by the EFTA Surveillance Authority. [[ESA]] Such decisions shall be addressed to national authorities, not individuals or businesses.’;» Yes, in that case, the logic must be that when EU authorities are exercised via Norwegian authorities, it is unproblematic. It's not like that for us in the Center Party. For us, this is extremely problematic, because it is, in our opinion, a waiver of sovereignty when other than Norwegian authorities have the power to decide in Norway. We are not reassured by the fact that ACER only targets the Norwegian authorities via ESA. The point is who has the power to decide, and here ACER is the decisive word in the regulation of Norwegian power – not Norway's watercourse and energy directorate, not Norwegian authorities and not this hall. In the report of the EU Energy Union, the Council of States pointed out that ‘Norway has a different starting point than many EU Member States’. The Council of State reminded us that we ‘has renewable hydropower-based power supply and we are a major energy exporter. This makes it important to have an active position from the Norwegian side in order to safeguard Norwegian interests’. It may be that the Council of State and I have different definitions of what it is to be active, but it is close to asking: How can passive implementation of decisions by Acer channelled through ESA and the Energy Regulatory Authority be described as ‘an active position by the Norwegian side’? For me and the Center Party, this is mostly reminiscent of someone who has given up governing, with the consequences it can have for Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e682	As a small country with an open economy, Norway has served with close international cooperation, an international legal order and a good framework for international trade. Environmental challenges, wars, refugees, poverty and the lack of development are problems that cannot be solved by each national state alone, but must be resolved jointly. Access to the EU internal market is an important prerequisite for ensuring the well-being of Norwegian society. The EU is and will become our main trading partner. At the same time, Norwegian social developments are significantly affected by EU decisions. In this policy decision-making process, Norwegian voters are not represented. It is a democratic problem that I would like to see different, but I am pleased that this government prioritises an active European policy to influence both early in processes and to ensure Norwegian interests as best as possible. For its own part of the country, this is very important, as large parts of our industry are export oriented. EEA cooperation has served Norway well. The Agreement confers on Norway and the Nordics the same rights and obligations as other EEA countries and their nationals in respect of trade in goods, investment, banking and insurance, the purchase and sale of services and the right to take up work, study and reside in other countries of the region. It links Norway to the EU's internal market with more than 500 million people. It's 100 times larger than the Norwegian market. 80 pst. Of all the goods we sell abroad, we sell to Europe. And 60 pst. of all the goods we buy from abroad come from Europe. Common rules make it easier and cheaper to trade with European countries. Without the EEA Agreement, the goods we export would become less competitive. The EEA Agreement ensures and regulates both exports and imports of goods and services. Norwegian gross domestic product has increased by 60 pst. since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement, in what has been an adventurous period of growth in the Norwegian economy. Many fear that brexit could lead to more countries leaving the Union, but fortunately it appears that this has created a new gift in the discussions on the future of the European Union. In its presentation in the United Kingdom, the Council of States showed that in 2018 the EU is hosting several summits such as: shall discuss reform of the euro area, migration, internal and external security, trade and future financing of the EU. In its speech on the state of the European Union in the European Parliament in September, President Juncker said that it is now time to find the way forward for the European Union. It is now time to build a more united, stronger and democratic Europe. These discussions are about Norway and our country's interests. We have to participate in the debates, record Norwegian positions and our own contributions where that is natural. We need to continue our constructive approach in order to ensure that our country can take part in a development that ensures our well-being and contributes to the development and stability of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e695	It is good to be able to observe that times are changing rapidly in Europe as well. Last year, when we discussed EU/EEA issues in the United Kingdom, there was some uncertainty about both the migration wave, Brexit and the economic situation in Europe and the aftermath of the financial crisis. A lot has now turned around. For the Right, a good relationship with Europe is important. The need for cooperation and cohesion is obvious. Pure national solutions are short when we face the threat of terrorism, when we are faced with common rules in foreign and security policy, and when we are about to undergo difficult transitions. There is still uncertainty about the impact of brexit on the United Kingdom. It was a big campaign with a referendum that resulted in Britain leaving the EU, but if those who voted yes that time would do so today, when they see the uncertainty it has triggered, I am unsure. The EU is our main trading partner, while the United Kingdom is our largest single market for goods, including oil and gas and services. It is then important to review and maintain the EEA Agreement and the other agreements that Norway has with the EU. It's good to know that the government is also close to what's happening around brexit. The EEA Agreement ensures Norwegian enterprises access to the second largest market and for Nordland the agreement is very important. In 2016, Norway exported seafood for 92 billion. NOK, of this for 61 billion. kr to the EU. From 2014 to 2016 the exports of Nordlands to the EEA countries increased by 11.3 pst. If there's anyone in this room who thinks we can cancel the EEA Agreement, and says that a trade agreement could replace what we get through the EEA Agreement, I'm going to take away from it. Even if we do. should copy EU veterinary legislation outside the EEA, our fish will no longer be entitled to enter the EU without a time and cost border check. Thus, a trade agreement would increase the costs for exporters and endanger Norwegian jobs. For a fresh product such as fish, such uncertainty may be devastating. It may be good to know that 170 car trains with sea food go to the EU every day. It is a clear majority of the population who are opposed to Norwegian EU membership, so it is still on the table. But at least let us not create uncertainty about our relationship with the EU and with the EEA Agreement. For us Norwegians, there is no better agreement than the EEA Agreement. It gives us rights – such as employee, student, pensioner or tourist. In addition, it provides Norwegian tourism with valuable labour and export access.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e712	The EEA Agreement weakens the ability of elected representatives to hold elections. The EEA Agreement thus weakens people's confidence in elected representatives. This is due to the fact that the four freedoms of the EU override the electoral commitments of the elected representatives and the governance and correction of free market forces – i.e. capital forces – within the EEA area. This fact is important in the debate on the future of the EEA Agreement in Norway. This should be particularly important for the Workers' Party. Martin Kolberg, an EEA member, is asking more and more critical questions about the EEA Agreement. His and my main focus is the development of Norwegian working life. Kolberg said in his statement that this is a germ for problems and undermines the legitimacy of the EEA Agreement. The majority of the population may try to ignore the increasing insecurity of stable and secure income for workers. However, this tactic will not succeed, because people in more and more professions experience the negative aspects of free and non-regulated labour immigration from outside the Nordic countries, free labour immigration from countries with very poor pay and working conditions and huge unemployment. A new debate will push itself from the floor of Norwegian working life, represented by trade union leaders, who have a working class on them. The centre party is at the side of these trade unionists. The Government has openly recognised that the EEA Agreement overrides agreements in Norwegian working life, for example: Workshop agreement, a fact that the Land Organisation has decided cannot be accepted under the EEA Agreement. When the United Kingdom leaves the EU and at the same time says that there is no EEA agreement, there has to be a thorough debate on the EEA Agreement also in Norway. When the EEA Agreement was passed in its time, there was no – neither Gro Harlem Brundtland nor the European Movement’s supporters here in the Chamber – who thought this would be a lasting agreement. Now it's been there for 23 years. Jacques Delors, President of the European Commission from 1985 to 1995, who was central to the design of the Constitution, the Maastricht Treaty with the four freedoms, has later recognised that there are major weaknesses in the construction itself, because the possibilities for elected people to correct capital forces are so limited that it creates situations that cause social unrest – and thus political unrest. This is one of the most central things we have to discuss. I would like to conclude by saying that when the representative Svein Roald Hansen said that one cannot fool himself into an illusion that all power is in this room, we must soon get to grips with: What power is it that Hansen does not want to be in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e725	First of all, Mr Kolberg, who is not really interested in politics, but in polemics. He's not so interested in finding out his own thoughts and making his own answers, but trying to find some wedge between people instead of trying to create something. That, I think, is a political weakness. Yes, I initially said that I am in favour of the EEA Agreement, and I think it can be the basis for cooperation with the United Kingdom. What I also said in my post was that it is not certain that it is absolutely necessary to have a revitalized cooperation with the United Kingdom, which the representative Hansen thought was wrong. I think that a political 'one-to-one' cooperation can be so good, and perhaps even better than having Norway against 28 other countries. I think that's natural in this kind of cooperation. I also said that defence cooperation will not work, and that is quite correct. There's nothing wrong with that, it's actually quite right. So it's like I'm thinking my own thoughts on the basis of experience and the story I have, where I've been, where I've been, and where I've been. I am writing my own posts, and I am actually trying to participate in the debate constructively and to contribute something in the debate, instead of reading up completed articles – I am not involved in that at least. I do not believe that the United Kingdom does not want labour immigration. I said the United Kingdom wants labour immigration. 3.5 million EU citizens work in the United Kingdom, they actually work, and then there are 1.5 million British who work in the EU countries, they also work. There is a demand for labour, and that is positive. What I was talking about was immigration governed by the European Union, which comes from the Middle East and North Africa. That's what the British are skeptical of, and they want to stop. When the representative Lysbakken speaks of countries accepting their share of refugees, why should Europe accept its share of refugees? Why should the world not accept its share of refugees? If they're looking for protection, could they just as well be in India, or China, or Argentina, or Chile for that matter? It is safe there too, it is not only in Europe it is safe. Then the UN should come in and control this kind of refugee flow – there is even a Commissioner of his own who is dealing with just refugees, their crews and where to place them. Why should the EU take that responsibility? I think that's wrong, I think this is a global responsibility, because it's the world's refugees we're talking about. So this is the negative side of the EEA Agreement. Yes, there are negative aspects to the EEA Agreement, which the Progress Party at best would have wanted to renegotiate. So you say it's unrealistic, and it could be. But there are at least two points that we point to, and that is: it's social security exports, which were taken up by the representative Wilsgård, and that's the consequence of us getting labour immigration that takes over manual labour in Norway, which means that expertise disappears and applicants for expertise in schools. When they return to Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, etc., that expertise is no longer available in Norway. I think that's a very relevant topic to address, and I'm not embarrassed to say that. There is a breach of the EEA Agreement. Why shouldn't you say that when it's true?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e742	I have been challenged on some themes that I did not get covered in my first post. The first was about decent work, and then a little about security and defence policy and PESCO. Let me say that it is absolutely essential to ensure a decent working life, and we should be aware of the global trends that challenge the standards we want to apply to our own working life. At the same time, I am pleased with the clear support that many of the challenges we face need to be solved through international cooperation, and that is also true here. It is difficult to imagine – at least from the batches represented by the government – that we should turn back to a situation where the labour market becomes national again and where there is no longer freedom of movement of labour. We need to take international initiatives, such as the Prime Minister. with her participation in the Gothenburg Summit, where she took the initiative of a European strategy against the crime of working life. We are also involved in the social dialogue. The social partners in Norway are also part of the social dialogue on the EU side, as much of the work has to be done there. The EEA Agreement sets common standards and legislation. At the same time, we should remind ourselves that there have also been reinforcements of workers' rights as a result of the EEA Agreement and legislation on the EEA side, for example. in the case of working time, in the case of written employment contracts, in the case of business transfers, in the case of information, holidays and the working environment. So it is not that the standards have necessarily been reduced; there have also been reinforcements in Norwegian legislation as a result of EU legislation. These are also often minimum provisions, so we stand free as a country to have stronger protection and stronger rights when we want it. So to the development of security and defence policy, which both Abid Q. Raja and Eirik Sivertsen have been involved. We believe that a strong and well-coordinated EU that takes greater responsibility for common security is good, and that is also good for the transatlantic bond. Then it is important that Norway and other non-EU allies are included in the development of the EU in the field of security and defence policy, and it is also important that this development takes place in close contact with NATO. We want to further develop cooperation with the EU in the field of CSDP, and we want to be involved in processes in the past. Of course, we are closely monitoring developments around PESCO and whether there will be opportunities for third country participation. That's something we're following closely. It has not yet been clarified by the EU. It is likely from our point of view that it would be desirable to participate in individual projects of particular interest, but this is too early to conclude. We also want to be able to participate in the capability part of the defence fund. As has been stated in the past, we are invited as the only country to cooperate in research on the defence side.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e759	It is said from this speaker that the EEA Agreement should be vital for Norwegian exports, and that one puts jobs in jeopardy, without the same representatives being able to provide any evidence as to what would be the situation, what types of enterprises and what types of industries would in that case weaken market access. It's a rhetoric with no concrete content. Norway has had duty-free access to the EU market since 1977 for all industrial products – from a long time before the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. In terms of fish exports, the difference between what we had before the EEA, and what we have with the EEA, is approximately. 2 pst. difference in customs loads. Of course, we should have good trade relations, both with our European neighbours and with other countries. We have a long tradition for that. We are participating in WTO cooperation, and we are developing cooperation within the framework of EFTA with ever-new countries and areas. But the fundamental question one has to ask is whether to get market access we have to submit to a system where there is one party that decides the rules, and the other that has to accept them. I have to say I'm a little scared about how the majority in this room describes it. Is that the case to have trade cooperation internationally? Is this the case with other countries that we need market access to? Is this going to be the same for example? United States – that the United States decides the rules, and then we're going to accept them in order to have trade cooperation and market access to the United States? Are we going to have it like that when we negotiate with China about accessing that market, or to India or other countries? No, one must build traditional trade cooperation on cooperation between countries where there are clear rules and, if they are to be amended, they must be changed in dialogue between the parties. So to the representative Hansen, who troubles that the British might come back to EFTA, as a member there, through trade negotiations that we are going to have with other countries. It was described as a problem that the UK, together with Switzerland, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, might participate in EFTA, in trade negotiations with other countries, while his alternative is Norway to join the EU, where the EU Commission negotiates trade agreements – on behalf of 28 member countries – with countries elsewhere in the world. It's just not hanging in any way. The centre party is a clear defender of the people's rule, a clear defender of our need to have good international agreements, but based on our maintaining the best in the Norwegian tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e771	It is beneath the opposition to the EEA Agreement to suspecting the integration project that EU cooperation is. If it had been as some claim, it would never have been for so many years, with so many small countries, which then supposedly felt overrun. It wouldn't work. When you use the expression that it's the import of right-hand policies, I think you should go to London and talk to the British Conservatives about that expression, because they think the exact opposite is that there are too many rules. And if you look at the concerns in 1992, in the debate on Norwegian membership – that it would destroy environmental policy, etc.What has happened? There has been a lifting of standards all the way. And most of the new environmental regulations in Norway have come from Brussels, not the Ministry of the Environment. With regard to consumer protection rights, to women in the labour market, etc., there are also many examples. It's not about submitting to a system. I don't think you get a free trade agreement with the United States without having to accept importing chicken that's chlorine-washed. You can try, but I don't think so. What I really asked for was for Per Olaf Lundtigen, who wondered what power I would not have in this Chamber. Well – in the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee's budget, it says every year, and the Central Party agrees that Norway is served with an international society where we have legislation, institutions and agreements. We have 900 international agreements that Norway is bound by, even if they are not done in a supranational sense. In 1905, when we were to break free from Sweden, we had to conclude an agreement with Sweden – the 1905 Watercourse Convention – where we committed ourselves not to reverse the flow of water in cross-border rivers. The Swedes were afraid that we would turn Trysileva so that there would be no water in the river Klarälven. The fact that we can do that, I believe is a power that is no longer in this room. It's a banal example, but it's an example of a liability. Then to the British and EFTA. It is not that we agree on everything in EFTA when we negotiate free trade agreements. We have a little bit of different interests, and we're struggling in some countries. I don't think Norway, Switzerland, Iceland, Liechtenstein and the United Kingdom will be run together when we're going to go out and make demands. Making trade agreements more demanding, as there will be more tensions within EFTA.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e786	The centre party does not suspect what the representative Hansen calls the integration project. We're just trying to get a discussion about what the logical consequences of the system on which the EEA Agreement is based. Many things were said when the EEA Agreement was concluded, including: in the case of working life. I would recommend more people to read what was said and written at the time, look it up against what is the situation today, and make a sober assessment of who was most right. It is an important part of understanding the dynamics of the EEA Agreement. Jacques Delors – by all means – has recognised that there is a systemic flaw in the fundamentals on which the EU is founded, namely the four freedoms of market forces, a systemic flaw in the ability of the elected representatives to correct the weaknesses – and I stress the weaknesses – of capitalism. I am in favour of capitalism, but I am in favour of correcting the weaknesses of capitalism, of elected people. When even Jacques Delors says that this is a problem, and when we also recognise that when you have an economic union with the euro without a political union, you see that you quickly get into a festivities. This means that a difficult one does not come up or down, because one does not have the necessary political means to correct the weaknesses of the system. We're supposed to have international organizations, and the Center Party is supposed to be for it, because we've been for it all along. We are supposed to have legislation and agreements. We will normally bet on the ILO and other prominent organisations in the organisation of Norwegian working life. However, the situation is that today’s system operates, with the freest possible immigration of labour from outside the Nordic countries, where pay and unemployment — and unemployment — are completely different from those in Norway, providing labour supply that is much greater than the need, and pushing down pay and working conditions for these groups. The centre party shall stand up for those people, because they are necessary to build Norway. We also need to build Norway with Norwegian masons and Norwegian carpenters.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e797	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e802	The centre party is in favour of international driving rules, but then one must also consider which international driving rules should prevail. To the representative Hansen, who, in my view, does not problem anything about what the EU is doing: an international commitment we have is through the International Labour Organisation and what is actually happening in Norwegian ports now, where one has previously had a preferential right for registered port workers for unloading and loading, but which has been challenged by the EU, and for which Norwegian Supreme Court has bent its neck. Now the Norwegian Transport Workers' Association is asking wholesalers and the government to ensure, through law and regulation, that they continue to have that right of preference. Will the Labour Party join in securing it in the future, so that it will not be over-driven from the EU in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e807	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e823	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e839	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e848	The current age pension regulation rules were introduced from 2011 as part of the pension reform. The background to the reform was to make the pension system sustainable, because higher average life expectancy and lower birth rates are expected. The 2009 pension agreement brought together a broad majority of the Storting with a common recognition of the need to strengthen the sustainability of the pension system. An integral part of the pension agreement was that pensions should be regulated on the basis of expected salary growth in the regulatory year and then a fixed factor of 0,75 pst should be deducted. As a result, pensioners' income development follows the income development of active workers in good and bad times. The first years after the entry into force of new regulatory rules, regulation became better – in part much better – than if regulation had followed, for example. an average of wage and price increases. However, after several years of high real wages growth, growth slowed as a result of the setback in the Norwegian economy after the fall in oil prices. Not only did the wage growth for them decrease in work. A lot of people lost their jobs. A regulation based on average wage and price growth would give higher annual growth in the pension over the last three years, while people lost their jobs. Current regulation is justified by the fact that the development of income of pensioners is proportionate to the development of income of active workers. The minority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the SV, propose that the government submit a case on changing the regulatory principles for current pensions from wage developments less than 0,75 pst. to actual average wage and price developments. In the context of the social security settlement in May 2015, it was announced that the government would review the principles for the regulation of pensions during payment. The conclusion was that the applicable rules on pension regulation are maintained. The outcome of the review was presented to the Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget in 2016. The review was also briefly mentioned in Meld. St. 7 for 2016-2017, Pension regulation in 2016 and pensioners' income ratio. The size has thus received a good and thorough information on the government's review and conclusion. One who received a pension in 2010 has, however, been paid more in retirement from 2011 as a result of the current rules than if the regulation had been implemented with average wage and price increases. In other words, the current control method has turned out well over time. I notice that no one was in charge of following the average wage and price increase in the years of today's regulation, which seemed better for the pensioners. Unemployment is now falling, growth is rising, and the national budget for 2018 estimates a positive real wage growth of 1.4 pst. in 2018. It will give approximately the same regulation as the current regulatory regime as with an average wage and price growth. But if growth continues to rise, a change in the regulatory approach can now lead to pensioners both losing something in the period of lower wage growth and losing it if we now enter a period of recovery. Therefore, the Right Party and the Advance Party consider that it is not desirable to amend the applicable rules for the regulation of old-age pensions. In the past, the Stortinget dealt with its own social security proposal in connection with the social security scheme in order to transfer money from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Labour's budget. As from the 2016 state budget, these funds have already been allocated to the Ministry of Trade. Thus, a separate budget proposal is not necessary in the context of social security arrangements. Where the funds necessary for the implementation of the social security scheme are allocated in the ordinary budgetary procedure, the Stortinget has a greater opportunity to allocate funds to pensioners in addition to those resulting from the ordinary regulation. This, as we know, has also been done in the last two years. In contrast to the majority of the members represented in the Committee, the Right and the Progressive Party consider that it is therefore natural to continue to present a communication on social security in the context of the treatment of the State budget, as this debate suggests. The change in the budgetary procedure is purely technical and practical and without any real significance for the social security system itself. With that, I thank you for the cooperation on the matter in the committee and want a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e873	The notification concerns the regulation of pensions from 1 May 2017. Today we write 30 November, which is more than seven months after the entry has expired. It can hardly call a real treatment. It should also be a crosshairs for the government that the organizations have once again refused to sign the declaration. In any case, there is something that impresses the Workers' Party. Pensioners' organisations have clearly stated what they think about the practice that the government has put in place, i.e. that social security is no longer going to the Stortinge. It is particularly important when the government of the message shows that real wages growth in pensions seems to be negative in 2015–2017. The Labour Party still believes that it is strange that the government unilaterally decided that the Storting should no longer be involved in the annual social security decisions. In particular, it is strange in the light of what the previous Progress Party Council of State said to the Stortinget in connection with the social security resolution for 2015, when the pension lists experienced a decline in the value of pensions for the first time after the pension reform. He was then very proud to ‘belong to a government that so clearly says that they will review the regulatory principles in good time before the next social security settlement’ – i.e. provided for 2016. And he wasn't only proud of it, he went on to say, "I want to say it so strongly that with this government – with the Advance Party in government – it's the first time you sit down and start going through the regulatory principles." The government did not propose any changes at that time, nor has it done so later. The size has never been given any political explanation as to why the government stopped presenting the claim to the Stortinget, just one technical explanation. Repeated proposals from the opposition to reintroduce what has been used in the past have been rejected in cash. The Labour Party believes that social security, which determines the income of about one million inhabitants, is so important that it should be dealt with by the Storting. Without it, the right to debate is not real either. Particular aspects that should be considered will not be presented to the Storting. The opposition believes that a negative real wages trend over time is such a special relationship. We notice that the Progress Party also meant two years ago, but it doesn't mean anymore. The party of progress is pleased to show that they were originally not part of the pension agreement, and they ‘toes’ their hands, but was not pleased to comment that, with their inception in the government in 2013, they actually put their signature on the pension agreement through the Sundvolden Declaration. The government's own calculations of pension income trends clearly show that it is important for the data to be provided to the Stortinget. Differences in income between men and women are large, and differences are increasing when we also take into account tax cuts. It refers to the response from the Government Council to the SV in relation to the data entered in 2015 and the response from the Government Council to a corresponding question from the Labour Party in connection with the revised budget in 2016. Government tax cuts primarily benefit pensioners with the highest income. It is a fact that the government failed to describe both in the revised budget in 2016 and in the social security resolution message last year. We had to ask to get the facts about it. And history repeats itself. The government says this year that ‘total tax relief over the period 2014–2017 for retirement pensioners has been estimated at about 3.8 billion. kr’. Once again, we had to ask, what kind of pensioners did this benefit? The answer from Siv Jensen was clear. Of course, there was a pensioner with the highest incomes, just like tax cuts, otherwise, not ordinary people, but those who have the most from before. The shrinking of the Progress Party in this case is quite a lot. My great distance between words and actions of former state councilman Robert Eriksson. The Progress Party Size Group was revealed when it was known that, in a group note, they had fallen to their own state council and tried to put the blame on all the other parties so that the social security resolution would no longer go to the Storting. Now we're left there. The majority of the Committee asks the government to reintroduce the practice of presenting the social security decision as a matter for the Grand Duchy. The Labour Party and SV also make a proposal to change the regulatory principle of current pensions to the actual average of wage and price developments in order to prevent pensioners from going into negatives when others go into positives. That's the proposal that's coming up with this. In any case, given previous commitments, the Progress Party should support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e888	The representative of Hadia Tajik has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e893	When I heard the previous posts, from the representative Tajik, I really wondered a little about what this debate is about, because the debate she is asking for is the one we have now. It is now possible for us to debate the social security situation, how progress has been and how we anticipate developments in the future. I believe everyone in this Chamber agrees that this is an extremely important matter, which gives us a good overview of the economic development of the country's pensioners. The Progress Party and others have long said that the success of a society can be measured in several ways – but how we take care of the elderly, how we take care of those who have built the country we are all so lucky to live in, is a good indicator of how successful society is. The issue we are now dealing with shows how the technical calculation of the annual adjustment of pensions has been and also how development has been. It is precisely that when the majority of the population adopted the pension agreement, it was decided that there should be a technical adjustment every year. It is regulated by both law and regulation. I must say that it is strange if the representative Tajik and the Labour Party believe that a government should disregard the laws and regulations in force at all times, especially when these are the laws and regulations promoted by the Workers' Party itself, even stood in the way of what former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has said is one of the things he is most proud of in his time as a politician in Norway. When the Storting treated the pension agreement, it was dealt with in several rounds — 2005, 2007 and 2009. It is quite right that the Progress Party was the only party against it, all the way. The main reason why we were opposed is that there are different views between the Advance Party and the Workers' Party about what retirement really is. The Workers' Party regards pensions as something that you get from the State, and that the State should thus have the opportunity to reduce, make changes whenever you wish. The Progress Party considers retirement as a post-paid salary, which has been paid for over a long life, when you have paid taxes, when you have paid social security contributions, etc. Therefore – and are – the Progress Party was against both the curtailment and underregulation of pensions. But we also record that we are in a minority, and so the Progress Party and the government have considered whether there are other ways we can strengthen the pensioners' economy. When the government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, reduced the unreasonable curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners, the Workers' Party fought hard against. The working party seems to be fine that pensioners should reduce their earned pension only because they are married or live together. We have reduced it, which amounts to about NOK 8 000 more for a married or cohabiting pensioner couple. That doesn't mean that the state gives more money, that means that we let people keep more of their own money. Similarly, the Progress Party was against underregulation. We initially thought that the country's pensioners should have the same wage trend as the rest of society, but also there we were in the minority. At that time it is very special today to see that the founder of the pension reform and the underregulation, the Workers' Party, is promoting a new proposal, which implies a continued underregulation of pensions. Thus, for several years, pensioners will be able to get out even worse with the new model of the Workers' Party than with the one we have today, and that is why the Advance Party is voting against it. I am proud of the fact that the Advance Party and the government together with the Left and Christian People's Party have been created. We have chosen to strengthen lone minimum pensioners through several rounds. Twice we have increased the pension for lone minimum pensioners by NOK 4000. Married persons and cohabitants now have 8 000 more to walk with because the Progress Party has been made to reduce the curtailment. I think the Labour Party should be more honest in this debate, take responsibility for the reform they themselves introduced, as they were the architect behind, and they should also stop the attack they have on the country's pensioners, which they now want to punish even harder.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e912	I have no particular sense of double communication, nor do I have the sense that a person spreads a wrong understanding of matters – and that is what I say to the last speaker. The progressing party understands what a pension is, is that one says it's that one should get back a share of what one has paid. If that's what the Progress Party means, you've got to soon take over and change the whole system to get a sheep to it. When one does not, one is responsible for the system that is, and has to deal with that fact. In the case of underregulation: if the Progress Party believes that there is underregulation, yes, one has to do something about it. When the Progress Party sits in government and does not get clear suggestions from its group here in Stortingen to change it, well, one is in underregulation. Social security is important — it is popular to call it retirementstopping. It is important because it is an important part of the distribution policy and social security policy. I would like to make a few brief comments on the system and on developments in the future. For the Centre Party, it is important that the social security settlements and associated protocols be presented to the Stortinget as a matter of its own, as was done until 2015. This is necessary in order for the Storting to be able to address both the underlying assumptions and to make the consequences of social security arrangements visible. The size will then be informed about the development of the purchasing power of old-age pensioners over time, and the Stortinget will then have the opportunity to fully assess what has happened in the negotiations between the state and the organisations, in preparation – and I stress it – for the Stortingen decision on supplementary appropriations as a result of the regulation of basic amounts and pensions. Thus, such treatment of social security payments in the spring of the Grand Duchy provides a better basis for putting pensioners' economic development in the context of income trends in the working population. Furthermore – and not least – such a wholesale treatment will challenge the representatives of the political parties in Stortinget on the basis of which professional policy is to be based next year’s social security settlement. This means that the majority of Storting is leading the state's social security system, which is something that organisations – and I stress it – must take into account in their demands. The annual social security balances thus become a preparation for the decision of the Storting on the necessary forthcoming appropriations from the state fund, which is the consequence of the changes in pension payments. Social security is too small to be combined with the major economic challenges that any government has to face in terms of bringing the state budget together. As can be seen from the national budget of the year, the increase in public expenditure is estimated at 9 billion. SEK of an expected annual increase in income for the country of 18 billion. NOK 9 versus 18. This is an important recognition that we have to take on in order to understand the dimensions, the economic consequences, one or the other principle of regulating the G, which we are talking about here to a great extent. There is a need for people to know what the overall economic impact here is, and what the distribution impact it will have, including for other sectors to decide on. That is why the Central Party has now said in this setting that the government must have a special eye for those pensioners who have a weak pension. That's why we say it has to be ‘more emphasis is placed on income-balancing measures for pensioners in the future, as minimum pensioners and pensioners with small supplementary pensions are a particularly vulnerable group with today’s high cost level’. It's the Central Party's message to the government about the emphasis on the forthcoming social security settlement, which we want to get treated in the spring. That is why, together with the Workers' Party and the SV, we support the Committee's proposal for Decision I: ‘The government is asking the government to reintroduce the practice of presenting the social security balances as its own case for the Storting as from the social security settlement for 2018.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e933	It is very unfortunate that the government has left the pension lists with the remaining purchasing power several years in a row. Today, we are in a situation that almost could not happen, it was claimed when the pension reform was designed. Now it has been three years in a row that the regulation of the pension has led to lower purchasing power for the pension list. The red-green government that decided this had an intention to compensate for the loss of purchasing power if this were the case. It has not been done by the government today, and I think it is very regrettable. Therefore, I would like to record SV's proposal, which reads: ‘The government is asking for a model for the calculation of social security contributions to ensure that pensioners do not experience persistent negative purchasing power developments when the rest of society gains purchasing power, including an assessment of a floor that ensures that pensioners maintain purchasing power even this year with low wage growth.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e941	The representative Solfrid Lerbrück then addressed the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e946	In the state budgets for 2016 and 2017, the Christian People's Party has benefited from an increase in the pension of lone minimum pensioners by a total of NOK 8 000. This group has been hanging for too long. It has an income well below the EU poverty line. We have also increased the minimum pension for married and cohabiting persons by NOK 1000. In addition, the Christian People's Party, together with the Left, secured a majority of the government's proposal to reduce the shortening of married and cohabiting. As of 1 September 2016, married and cohabiting pensioners have received 90 pst. the basic amount of each basic pension of the population. The reform of pensions, which has been adopted by a broad majority on the Stortinget, involves, inter alia: the pension during payment is regulated by the increase in earnings less a fixed factor of 0,75 pst. The aim is to ensure a stable and predictable development of the income of pensioners in relation to the income and pension costs of the economically active persons, which are proportionate to the value of society and are therefore proportionate to the economic carrying capacity. Regulation with the average of wage and price increases would have contributed to increased pension costs as a share of employee income in periods of weak real wage growth and reduced pension costs in periods of strong real wage growth. Pension expenditure would then become harder to finance in periods of weak economic growth. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring pensioners a stable and good income development, while at the same time ensuring the management of public resources that are sustainable over time, in line with maintaining a solidarity welfare society that provides opportunities for all. The pension system shall now be evaluated. The Christian People's Party is open to discussing proposals on how to regulate pensions in the future. The Christian People's Party has in the last two years lifted the minimum pensioners beyond normal regulation. Against this background, the Christian People's Party will not support the proposals promoted by the minority in the committee's position, nor in the committee's recommendation. We will first have a thorough, comprehensive evaluation of the pension reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e959	There has been a lot of history in the speeches by both the representative of Wiborg and the representative of Tajik. I am a bit stunned, since I was part of the pension agreement and joined the Labour and Social Committee when Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was Minister and the Labour Party representative was adviser to the same Hanssen. Then it was just the Progress Party that voted against. So, of course, the Progress Party has joined the government since 2013, and I agree in many ways with what Lundtigen says, that then one has also accepted the premiums from the pension agreement. Nevertheless, I think it is getting a little hollowed out when the Workers' Party, which was the architect – as the representative Wiborg also pointed out in his post – so that the degrees choose to criticise it an overall expansion now stands behind it. For our own part, we are pleased that, through the budget negotiations this year – in the same way as the Christian People's Party – we were added to the minimum pensioners. I think that's good. It is also a good policy, which we fully support. We are also behind what we have negotiated in the broad agreement that the pension agreement was initially, and we are not going to support the minority proposals available in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e969	In the communication under consideration today, the government provides information on the year’s regulation of pensions, on pensioners’ income ratios, the minutes of the discussion meetings with the organisations and statistical information. Further details are also provided on developments in the overall income ratio of pensioners in recent years and factors affecting them. Furthermore, the current rules for the regulation of pensions and their background are mentioned. The increase has established clear rules on how pensions are regulated through broad pension agreements, and I would like to stress that the year’s social security settlement is fully implemented in line with these rules. The current rules on regulation make it possible to take into account expenditure on pensions in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs already in the draft government budget. By granting the funds necessary for the implementation of the social security scheme in the ordinary budgetary procedure, the Stortinget has the possibility to grant funds to pensioners in addition to those resulting from the ordinary regulation. As you know, this has also been done for the last two years. With this communication, the size is provided with detailed information on the year’s pension regulation and a comprehensive picture of the economic situation of our pensioners. The purpose of a communication on social security settlement in the context of the State budget is to get the discussion on pensioners' income development directly linked to the treatment of the State budget, where priorities can also be accompanied by money through binding decisions in the Storting. The current age pension regulation rules were introduced from 2011 as a central element of the pension reform. The old-age pensions are regulated as known by the salary increase and then by a deduction of 0,75 pst. For several years this has given rise to pensions above what would be an average of the price and wage developments. This year, when jobs are uncertain and wage growth is low, there will be less growth in pensions. The development we've seen in recent years is an expression of the setback in the Norwegian economy after the oil price drop. We have had a period when wages have decreased and many have lost their jobs. In addition, the Norwegian krona has weakened and the price growth has increased. It is important to see how the regulation of pensions is over time, not just in single years. Current regulation is well justified by the fact that pensioners’ income development is proportionate to the income development of active workers. It would be totally wrong and could weaken the rise in pension reform if we increase the burden on the active population in periods of weak wage growth. In the context of the social security settlement in May 2015, it was announced that the government would review the principles for the regulation of pensions during payment. The conclusion of this review was that the current rules on pension regulation are maintained. I record that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party believe that the result of this review was never presented to Stortinget. Accordingly, the members of the Committee of the Parties propose that the Stortinget should be presented with a case concerning the amendment of the regulatory principles for current pensions from wage developments less than 0,75 pst. to the actual average of wage and price developments, which will also be an underregulation of current pensions, but then a different form of underregulation from the one we have today. The results of the review were presented to the Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget for 2016, cf. Prop. 122 S for 2015–2016, Supplementary appropriations and re-priorities in the State budget 2016. The review was also mentioned in the Report. Art. No. 7 for 2016-2017, Pension regulation in 2016 and pensioners' income ratio. In my opinion, the size has thus received good and thorough information about the government's review and conclusion. Finally, I would like to point out that there are other factors than the annual regulation that affect the purchasing power of pensioners. In particular, I would like to mention the increase in the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners by approximately NOK 8 000 per pensioner, the increase in the minimum pension for single retirementers by NOK 8 000 and the increase in the minimum pension for married and cohabiting pensioners by NOK 1 000. In addition, pensioners have been taxed significantly in recent years. These measures have contributed to a significant increase in the purchasing power of pensioners over what follows separately from the annual regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e992	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e997	The debate on regulation is not new at all. In the context of the social security settlement for 2015, then State Council Robert Eriksson stated that the government “must review the regulatory principles in good time before the next social security settlement.” — i.e. the 2016 settlement. Since then, the government has been completely silent. Is it due to the fact that the government is satisfied with today's regulation, that they lack the power to act, or are they simply so inconsistent internally that they push the whole issue ahead of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1002	The review of the regulatory principles was carried out. In March 2016, the Prime Minister invited all the parliamentary leaders to a meeting at the Prime Minister's office, where they had a review of everything they had done. It was in March 2016. We briefed the parliamentary leaders, or those who met in the place of the parliamentary leader, and drew attention to the fact that, after the review, we wanted to maintain the system that already existed, because it was more predictable than the alternative. Then we presented it in the revised national budget 2016, as I mentioned in my post, before we also added it to the corresponding message that we are discussing today, in the autumn of 2016. So I believe that we came back before the social security settlement in 2016 with a briefing as well as that it was included both in the revised national budget and in the main message similar to the one we have now, last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1007	It was at least a clarification that the Progress Party with this is behind the government and thus the principles of today's regulation. It also clarifies that the government has no intention whatsoever of looking into regulation, despite the fact that the consensus reached in the conciliation was based on a positive development for the pensioners. The principle we're concerned with is that the pensioners shouldn't go in the negative when others go in the positive, but the government doesn't seem to be responsive either to the contributions of the pensioners' organizations or to the Workers' Party's proposal for new regulation. Why is it that the government is not interested in looking at new opportunities that can prevent pensioners from going into negatives when others go into positives?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1020	The party may respond to the question of the party, but there is no secret that the pension agreement is firm. It is also stated in the Sundvolden Declaration that it must be firm. Then, as I said, we did a review of the regulatory principle to see if this hits well enough in times like what we've had behind us now, with a large fall in oil prices and thus also great unemployment in some industries. What we came up with was that today's system will take good care of the pensioners over time. They'd get greater counting in the good years than the option would give, and then it's a little less in the bad years than the option would give. Over time it would come out about the same thing. The government is not at all uninterested in the purchasing power and wage development of pensioners. On the contrary, we are concerned that they should have a good purchasing power development, and that is why the government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has contributed to a significant economic upliftment, both through the allocation to the minimum pensioners, through the shortening of married and cohabiting, and also the tax relief that has been provided, and it has contributed to a significant improvement for the pensioners' economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1029	To the extent that there are some pensioners who have earned on government policy, there are pensioners who already have high incomes. We see that the differences are increasing in society, including for the pensioners. It's easy to see where the Right has its loyalty, and on this question it seems that they, together with the Advance Party, are more Catholic than the Pope when they embrace the reconciliation and refuse to look at opportunities for change. I believe it must be a quality stamp of Norwegian policy that when an important principle based on predictions turns out to be different from what the Stortinge provided for, new assessments are open. Then our basic principle is that the pensioners shouldn't go into negative when others go into positive. Why is the Council of State not willing to present a case to the Storing before next year, so that we can discuss these basic principles, put forward a case for the Storing and thereby get the debate we want, and not stand here seven months after the social security settlement has been adopted, and really have nothing but observation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1034	As I understand it, the representative of Grande, we are discussing how to underregulate the way underregulation is going to take place. One can choose between what the Workers' Party agreed to in the context of the pension reform, which also joined the Right, or whether to regulate with an average of the price and wages. Over time, you get even with the two systems. The difference is that the model that Grande wants, the underregulation that he wants, involves a much more shaky and complicated, difficult system. That's why the Workers' Party didn't want it the time you discussed it for the first time. The second is that the pensioners will get less in the good years than the alternative is. As I have said several times, the government has come back to Stortinget with this review, describing that we want to maintain today's system. We have done this verbally to the parliamentary leaders, at the Prime Minister's office in March 2016. We presented it in the context of the revised 2016 and in the message we have today for treatment, or equivalent, in the autumn of 2016. So I mean absolutely that we've done what we're supposed to do, and followed up the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1041	The Centre Party, together with the Pensioners' Association, will work, among other things, to get this debate in the spring together with the other discussions on wage developments in the labour and business sectors. So you can view it in context, because that's what's central. One must see the development of pensioners in the context of the evolution of the working population. However, the discussion we now have, the occasion the Stortinget has to make its opinion clear to the government, and that is what the government has to follow up on in the forthcoming talks – or what I will call negotiations with the pensioners' organizations. The Christian People's Party has been clear that one should pay more attention to increasing pensions for the minimum pensioners and pensioners with small supplementary pensions. My question is: will the Council of State support such a position, which has the full support of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1048	To have a debate on the spring: the difference between having settled the social security system compared to what it was before the reform, is that the reform involved legislating how to regulate the pensions. That means you can calculate it in advance. That's why you introduced that change already for the financial year, and you didn't expect to have your own proposition for the spring. The advantage of now discussing this issue with the budget is that, to the extent that the parties want to increase the income of pensioners through other circumstances, they can do so in their respective budgets. The government has. together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, previously prioritised several groups, which have contributed to significantly strengthening the economy of pensioners. I believe it is more binding to discuss these issues in the context of the State budget and not six months earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1054	I understand that the government won't change the system, but that's not what I asked. I asked if the government would take along that message or the signal you received in the discussion from the Christian People's Party, that there should be increased emphasis on increasing pensions for minimum pensioners and pensioners with small supplementary pensions. That's one point. The second thing I want to ask is what the Christian People's Party's representative also said, that it had to make a thorough, comprehensive assessment of the system. Will the government go for it, so that it comes in the spring in advance of the talks with the pensioners' organizations?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1061	After all, the government in previous budget negotiations together with the Christian People's Party has strengthened the pensioners' economy in several rounds. Whether or not to increase them further will be a budgetary question. Now the parties have made a settlement here on the Storting, where the parties have come together with their priorities. This could also happen in future budgetary periods. As regards the review of the reform, it was decided when the reform was adopted that it should be evaluated. The Norwegian Research Council is what is on this, and it is a long-term work. But the reform will be evaluated. It was already adopted at the time of the adoption of the pension reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1068	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1075	I want to start by pointing out that the older part of the population has also had a strong increase in purchasing power in recent years, and indeed a stronger increase in purchasing power than the younger part, i.e. between 36 pst. and 40 pst. - against less than 30 pst. for the younger ones, which is not so bad either. The reason is that older people have worked more than they did before, and they have had an ever better service. This means that the elderly now have quite safe and good living conditions. But now we have seen that the regulation we adopted in the pension reform continues to give pensioners real reductions in current regulation when wage making becomes as moderate as they have been in recent years. That was never the thought. And it will be noticed – I think – among the country's pensioners that the Progress Party, considering previous promises, does not vote for a change today. It must be the will to adjust the course when you see that you are going in the wrong direction. Therefore, the Workers' Party and the SV are promoting proposals today to change the regulatory principles of the current pensions in order to prevent pensioners from going into a negative position when others go into a positive position. So the representative, Erlend Wiborg, says rhetorically: what we're doing, is to follow the rules that are in force, that have been adopted, shouldn't the government do that? Well, of course, a government has to do that. But a government can also take the initiative to change the current rules when it sees that they give results that were not intended. Now the Council of State says that it has been assessed – and concluded that you do not want to. If you're going to base your opinion on the Wiborg representative, if you're going to follow the legislation that exists, without being able to make any changes, then I have to say that I think the government should start doing so with regard to the work environment law, because there have been constantly proposed changes. A review was carried out in 2016, but the decline in purchasing power continues. So I want to encourage you to look at this one more time, and once again consider presenting the proposition about spring, so that you can discuss it with the payroll, and not with the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1086	In this debate, we have witnessed two government parties that seem to be completely stuck in old patterns, which are not able to think again when things change, and which are unable to see that some of the assumptions for the pension agreement that were made some years ago have not come into force, based on the forecasts that led to the calculation, and when we look at historical figures, where the Workers' Party wants to develop a new form of regulation that more closely respects the principle that pensioners should not go negative when others go positive. It was really the basic principles that were also discussed in the context of the pension agreement, namely that there should be a positive income trend also for pensioners. The council itself says that – almost no matter what model you choose, the Workers' Party and the SV's proposal or what is already there – it will be roughly balanced. The basic principle we want to achieve is that when the rest of society does, pensioners will also be involved in a positive development. I do not know exactly how to actually attack the position of the Progress Party in this matter, because it is double communicated along several lines, particularly in the speech by the representative of Wiborg. It is said that it is now that we can discuss social security and how development has been. Firstly, the social security scheme was adopted about seven months ago. Secondly, when we try to take it seriously – discuss how progress has been, and take measures to regulate pensions in the future – the Progress Party is completely uninterested in taking that debate. We hear nothing about what the Progress Party wants to raise. We have not seen a single initiative from the Progress Party in the government to look at a new regulation, despite the promise made by the then state council Robert Eriksson. We in the Workers' Party have looked at developments. We have assessed how we can ensure better regulation of the pension without overturning the basic principles of the pension agreement. That is why we have ended up with the proposal that we have promoted – together with the Socialist Left – in this matter. The party of progress owes it to a minority. No, the Progress Party has, through the Government Declaration, agreed on how to regulate the pension. It has also been established by the Council of State here. Therefore, it is not sustainable for the Party of Presidents to try to present in this case, too, as if they had an entirely alternative position, that they are not part of the College of Government. Now it is time for the Progress Party to take responsibility and for the country's pensioners to stand for what they have been doing in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1097	As the rapporteur, I have to say that cooperation and dialogue within the Committee have been considerably calmer than the last speakers could say. I just have to remind you that the idea behind the pension agreement was that the income development of pensioners should follow the income development of economically active people in good and bad times. It is not then possible for one to follow income trends and increase in good times, but also increase in bad times. It does not provide sustainability in the long term, even though it now seems like the Workers' Party wants it. The first years after the entry into force of the regulatory regime, the annual regulation improved, partly much better than if the regulation had followed, for example. an average of the wage and price increases. Therefore, it is also a little strange to say that there are government parties that are locked down, when we see that unemployment is on the way down and growth is on the way up, which could mean that in the long run the pensioners, who have lost something while the real wage growth went down in Norway, can lose more if the real wage growth goes up more, if the Labour Party model is taken into account. The right hand part and the progress part just don't want to lock the pensioners in a model that makes them lose at both ends. So for the treatment of the social security bill: As I said earlier, from the state budget for 2016, the funds have already been allocated from the department, and there is therefore no need for a separate budget proposal in connection with the social security settlement. Thus, when the funds necessary for the implementation of the social security system are allocated in the context of the budgetary procedure, the Stortingeket has a greater opportunity to provide pensioners with funds in addition to what follows the ordinary regulation, which has also been done from this increase in the last two years. With that, I thank you for all the speeches and otherwise for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1108	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1124	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity be given to alternates of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1133	The case spokesperson is on another mission for the Storting, so I will present the matter to the Stortinget on behalf of the Committee. The matter relates to the right to receive the pension slip from Nav in the mail, for those who want it. I want to start by thanking the proposers for once again raising this issue. As stated in the Committee's position, Stortinget has dealt with the matter a number of times since the Directorate of Labour and Welfare one year ago, in the autumn of 2016, unilaterally decided that users of Nav who receive a pension, disability benefit, daily allowance, redundancy money, action money and additional benefits should only receive the payment information digitally on Your NAV. There have been several proposals for representatives on the matter, and it has been discussed in several written questions. Saka has also been dealt with in the context of the revised national budget, and she has been dealing with issues for several hours. An important theme has been whether the pension rate is an important item, because if the pension rate is defined as an important item, users have a right to reserve their rights to receive it in digital form. On 9 June 2017, the government asked for a concerted increase to return to Stortinget in order to address the extent of the problem of electronic transmission of pension and cost frames by defining the pension rate as the type of important item that can be reserved for users to obtain digitally. The answer from the government lies ahead. In the government budget for 2018, the government reports that there are between 500,000 and 600 000 pensioners and disabled persons who have either actively reserved for digital mail or are not registered as digital users. The question of what is important mail will not be raised, nor will it be discussed. That means the majority in the committee is a weakness in the government's feedback, but at the same time it is aware that the government has previously expressed that they do not regard the pension scheme as an important item, so that users can make a reservation. The majority of the Committee disagrees with the government in that assessment. The majority note that important user organisations also disagree with the government in that assessment. Information about changes in income is important for everyone, not only for Nav users, but also for Nav users. When the committee held a hearing on the matter, not many people met, but the Pensioners' Association met. The same thing happened to the Norwegian Blind League. Altogether, they represent nearly 220,000 users of Nav. We received clear feedback from both organisations that you should be able to choose whether you want to have a pension slip digitally or on paper. Although the starting point was a little different for the two organisations, they had at least the common denominator that respect for the users of public services was the central thing – not forgetting that the administration exists for the users, and not the other way around. The Pensioners Association indicated that many of their members have neither a PC nor a tablet. It's a future worth. We should respect that. The phone is more familiar, but getting through to Nav on the phone can be a test of patience for most people. Part of the members of the Blind Federation are racers on digital media, but not all. In addition, the login process may be required for visually impaired users. A common response from the two organisations is that many of their members will need assistance from others to obtain digital information. This means that they must provide sensitive information to a third party — both bank ID, password, username, and encoder. There is less risk of assistance in reading written information, and many of them will also be able to read information on paper itself, either directly or by means of tools. No one from the organisations for the deaf met, but it's not going to be so much imagination to imagine the problems it could bring for people with reduced hearing, or no hearing at all, to get what's being read up on the phone, when a person had to get through to Nav. In summary, this matter is about providing good service to users of public services, and the majority in the Committee emphasises it. We note that the Right-front party government has a different approach. I'm sorry. The working party will subsidize proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1158	Norway is one of the countries in Europe that scores the highest on the digitisation of public services and on digital competences in the population. That's something we're going to be very happy for, and it's a work that we're going to continue with. It's positive for society that we can take out gains in the form of digitisation. Digitalisation is usually more user-friendly for citizens, and it saves society from large sums of money that can be used for better services or to reduce taxes and charges paid by citizens. It is a good thing for the residents of Norway that we can log on to the Altinn with our mobile phone, pay bills from the PC or deliver the tax message online. Before my time on this globe, all this was something that required great planning, took a lot of time and meant some waiting. It is also important to remember that not all countries have come as far as Norway or have as good digital infrastructure. Most of our citizens – and pensioners – are completely capable of switching to digital solutions, and very many do. Grandmothers learn how to use the iPad for the online banking of the grandchild, and the oldest people who now use Vipps are 97 years old. According to DNB, they are also very active, which is certainly a great pleasure for their grandchildren. All 96 pst. of which between 80 and 100 years of age here in the country have PCs, tablets, smartphones or at least one own mobile phone without a network. Among them between 70 and 80 years is seven out of ten on the Internet daily or weekly, while among them a little bit older, between 80 and 100 years, it's well over 40 pst. like every week on the Internet. So it is safe to say that the elderly in Norway have largely managed to adapt to the digital age. However, despite the flourishing of different actors and volunteers offering older popular introduction courses in data and digitisation, it is not as easy for everyone to learn to be safe enough about this. Everyone I know has become a digital citizen, and for some it will mean learning new technology, and for some it will be demanding. Similarly, some older people do not have relatives, children or grandchildren who can make similar arrangements. The option for many will be to give other people access to sensitive information, which is very problematic for privacy. The digitisation of the pension gap shall not lead to the loss of the ability of the population to obtain this information. Everyone can see their payment information on Your NAV on Nav.no, and those who cannot use Your NAV can call NAV Kontaksenter and get the payment information read out. The councils have also said that she has asked Nav to be flexible and to follow up on this, so that people get the information they need. We find that to be reassuring. It is still the normal nature of payments, and it is still the case that changes in payments beyond regulation and changes in rates and decisions will be included in the item. But for some it is more important than for others to be able to control this information. In particular, this may apply to pensioners abroad. Some foreign governments or pension funds have procedures that require individual pensioners to provide regular documentation and only accept originals. Therefore, the Nav Office for International Affairs should pay particular attention to showing flexibility in such cases. Some people need and wish to have the pension slip on paper in order to apply for a loan, check that the tax rate is correct, etc. I believe that Nav has to show a great deal of flexibility to users who, for various reasons, have a desire and a real need to get rid of paper, and I therefore expect Nav to do its utmost to show understanding and flexibility to these, even if not everyone is going to get out of the mail. Flexibility and user-friendliness are important for Nav himself, and I don't think anyone has earned that the country's pensioners have the impression that Nav is not willing to send written information to those who actually need this. I am therefore addressing the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1181	The representative Atle Simonsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1186	The case we're dealing with now has two points. When one reads the committee setting, one might wonder if all the parties have found out that there are two points. Let's do the last one, that's point 2, which says: ‘The budget asks the Government from 1 January 2018 to provide all beneficiaries with information on changes in pension benefits by reference to a concrete overview of the calculations underlying the change.’; [[(per month) e-mail or letter)]] So there's information about changes to those who get pensions. All those who get lost in changes experience that one month has one pension payment amount, the other month has another payment amount, and one has no explanation of how one came from one month to the next. If, for example: as a relative to trying to get an overview of this in the context of the loss of one of his parents, has a major difficulty in coming forward, based on legislation on privacy considerations and legislation that one does not have a call from one of his parents, their side has an overview of how one has come from one pension to the other. Therefore, the proposal has been promoted – in order to provide a written explanation, either by e-mail or by letter, in all the contexts of changing pension benefits. This would greatly facilitate the work of Nav, because then one omits all the requests from the many who wonder how one has arrived at one or the other amount. I am sorry that it has not been commented on or taken up by the government parties. As far as pensioners are concerned, there has been a thorough examination of the possibility of getting pension benefits. I just want to repeat that it's older, which in many cases is very old, it's not uncommon today that one is many and ninety years, and then we're talking about older in a different sense than what has been before, and we're talking about the blind and about those who live abroad. When, from the point of view of the Progress Party, it is now submitted that there are seven out of ten ‘well-off’, an appeal for flexibility, an appeal for an understanding, all will experience how the system works if one behaves according to today’s adopted practice, namely that one calls to the contact centres that Nav has. I would recommend that more people call those contact centres and find out how they will receive them. One shall be quite resourceful in order to sustain the queues that are present, and one shall be quite resourceful in order to ask as precise questions as are required to obtain the answers that clearly have been prepared by those seated at the other end, for it shall be done in a very short time. Many people have difficulty getting to know what the information really is. That's why I'm very pleased – when we've had such a strong commitment, not least from the Pensioners' League, and when the Center Party has had such a steadfast act about it – that it now seems that it's going to be a different solution. I refer then to proposal No. 2, which has come from the Christian People's Party, where one says that one will get what is the reality of our proposal, only with half a year's postponement, i.e. from 1 July 2018. The Central Party will provide subsidiary support to the proposals of the Christian People's Party. We are very pleased that the Christian People's Party has put forward that proposal, and we therefore hope that it will get the necessary majority here today – so that we do not have to have more issues about this, and so that really older people, blind people and those who live abroad can have their optional right to have this on paper if they want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1206	I think my parents got their first computer and their first cell phone. They're about. 60 years old and has managed to follow digital developments, with good help from me and my siblings. It still happens that Mother asks for some help, and we help with pleasure. But she never asks for help on something about online banking or about her income, because it's a private matter. The world is moving forward and becoming more and more digital. That's what I think everyone thinks is positive. I even think that many social security recipients and pensioners also think it's positive – those who don't have trouble with the computer. But there are a lot of people who don't have enough digital skills or good enough vision to bring with them digital information on income, and then the state has to take care of it. We can't sit here on the Stortinget and force the digitization on people. We can't sit here, digital as we are, and just decide that everyone should be as digital as we are. So simple is not the world. From now on, when the government decides that the pension scheme should only be digital, it places a proportion of the population out of control. It creates major problems for parts of the population and can cause people to give themselves access to their banking services and other sensitive information. The government has not considered the consequences of forcing people to receive this information digitally. It may have very unfortunate consequences if the government forces the elderly and the weakest to ‘voluntary’ to ask for help from others and thus risk identity theft or bank robbery. We in SV support the proposal of Per Olaf Lundtigen, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Geir Adelsten Iversen and Sandra Borch precisely because we respect the fact that this kind of information is important to people, that he is private, and that it can have unparalleled consequences like identity theft and other thieves from bank accounts. Subsidiarity in SV will support the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1217	In ours, the Left came up with a solution where the government was to explore the extent of the problem and the costs associated with the challenges surrounding it. Of course, I have no problem sharing what is the challenge picture with this, and some pensioners also talk about when a conversation with them, with just getting the pension slip in the post. I believe that it is possible to find good solutions to this, which we have also been assured, in addition to, among other things. the matter of contacting Nav. I understand that, as far as the representative from Lundtigen is concerned, there may be a job to do also in the context of the contact centres. I don't have a problem getting it. But it's also important to remember that classifying pension slips as important item here will result in an additional cost, which is estimated at approximately 33 million. kr per year. Of course, I realize that it could also be something smaller, but the 33 million. At least we want in our party to give priority to other things than a pension slip, such as. Nursing homes, cultural services for the elderly — if not otherwise — and more. I think that might be part of the answer to this, because it's also about prioritizing. I have talked to many pensioners who are affected by the changes around the pension gap. Yes, they find it difficult to get used to a new situation, but there are other things they prioritise more. I think that we should include ourselves in this, that there are other things that they think are more important than this. I am fully aware that with regard to the proposals available today, among others. about postponing this to revision – there must also be money then, because I am dealing with a budgetary settlement that we, together with the Christian People's Party, have with the government, and we have not been able to get through for the 33 million. kr – it is clear that it is possible to push on this until spring. It's possible. But as I said, we are dealing with the compromise we have reached, and we are voting today for the proposals of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1230	The Directorate of Labour and Welfare estimates that there are about 500,000 pensioners and disabled people who have reserved for digital mail or who are not registered as digital users. Many of these respond strongly to the fact that they no longer receive the pension slip on paper in the post. The Christian People's Party understands the reactions of retired people. Many feel discriminated against and put on the side of society because they are unable to cope with the digital transformation, as the rest of society is doing. It can reinforce a sense of being left over and of being inferior. For the Christian People's Party, it is central that everyone should feel included in the community, and that we should not make changes of this kind without having good arrangements that take everyone's needs seriously. In the hearing in the Committee, the Norwegian Blind League showed that many of its members have problems reading the release electronically, as well as the login itself on Nav’s websites. At the same time, they have tools that allow them to read a paper slip without having to ask for assistance. In the same hearing, the Pensioners’ Association indicated that 32 000 of their members have signed a petition to get the paper slip back. The Pensioners’ Association pointed to the unfortunate fact that those who need assistance to read digital pension slips also have to give up BankID, which is not recommended. They also showed that they had a long waiting time on the phone, broken phone calls, difficulties in accepting the pension slip sent in the mail and difficulties for people with impaired hearing. In the hearing, organisations indicated that the number of persons who would like to request paper release is most likely to be lower than 500000 and will gradually decrease. Against this background, the Christian People's Party voted in the last growing-up period that the pensioners who want it would get the pension slip on paper. The Christian People's Party has not changed its view, and I propose the following suggestions on behalf of the Christian People's Party: ‘As of 1 July 2018, the government requests that all recipients of pension benefits be given an optional right to receive the payment information on a rolling basis, per. post.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1244	The representative Steinar Reiten has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1249	Everyone says that change rejoices, but often few are willing to change, and it's fully understandable, for both small and large changes that require conversion cost. But the need for conversion does not go away for that reason. We saw that from the perspective statement, both in 2013 and 2017, we saw it with the oil price drop, we see it with the climate change, we get more and more older, and we get lower birth rates. The Norwegian public sector needs to be able to do more for less, as we have seen that technological change has provided opportunities in the private sector. In the field of employment and social affairs, there is also a great need for change. We have to make sure that those who can't actually work have decent income. At the same time, we also need to ensure that benefits which are temporary in the event of temporary loss of income are paid in employment, so that it always pays off to work. Changes are needed here, large and small. And it can't be that if the government comes to the Biggest with arrangements to be extended to more, but then needs to be arranged differently to ensure social links, the Stortinget decides that they will not only cover more, but also be maximised in the other direction, as we have seen in the debate on care. The size now refuses to work day money to meet those who are closest to the labour market. The size will not decentralize Nav so that the user can get very good digital services at home by merging Nav offices and concentrating resources on good services. And so the Storting will reintroduce a payoff message on paper, over a year after it was digitized and the great majority are waiting for this. The pension slip is not a big deal, so this is not about it. Reforms are reversed after they have entered into force – after Stortinget has instructed municipalities to provide training services, after all Nav offices have been instructed to provide guidance. And one thing is that part of the opposition that at least goes for tax increases, so taxpayers pay more for less. Another thing is to go in for efficiency reduction, as we do through, among other things. The ABE reform, precisely because we want to get more for less, and at the same time increase the cost on the other side. The Employment and Welfare Directorate has looked at the experience after they stopped sending out disbursement messages on paper in November 2016, and the biggest public attendance came in December 2016. Thereafter, the number of requests at the time of payment has been at the normal level before the conversion. So the users are about to arrange that the payment message is no longer in the post. The Employment and Welfare Act has concluded that the offer to read the pay-out slip on the phone and the ability to send prints meet the needs of the vast majority. In addition to that, Nav's pension payment is clearly visible on the monthly bank statement – which I, at least, read out with my 91-year-old grandmother every single month. And on the basis of request decisions in Stortinget, training is in progress in the municipalities and guidance at the individual Nav office. We are increasing resource use to bring about changes – which we are going in to reverse. Sometimes I wonder if Nav's worst case handlers are in this room. In the hearing, the Norwegian Blind League pointed out that many of their members have problems reading the release electronically, and I recognise that is a challenge. Digitalization is just about making things easier, not more difficult. That's why we should get them to concentrate their resources on providing good digital services that are universally available, both to the members of the Blind Alliance and to all of us who are going to need to log into Nav at some point. So the right goes against reintroducing a right to get a payment message by post. We'd rather focus on getting good digital solutions that include the entire population of Norway, and make sure that public resources are used in such a way that we get more for less, and do not impose extra tasks on them while we say they're going to do new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1269	It has now been one year since the State of Labour and Welfare stopped sending monthly payment messages in the post to pensioners and disabled people. As I have said several times during this year, I can assure you that the Employment and Welfare Act will continue to send all important messages in the mail to all those who are not digital users or who have reserved themselves for digital mail. This applies, inter alia, to: the annual task and, if changes in pension benefits are made in addition to adjustments in the regulations and rates resulting in slight changes in the monthly payments. For example, an old-age pensioner who becomes a widow or a widower will. receive your own letter on how the retirement benefits are changed as a result of this event. In the year that has passed, I have followed closely the reactions that have come. The Working and Welfare Session may indicate that there has been a clear rise in the use of digital payment information at Nav.no. The service Your pension and payments have had an increase of over 50 pst. in 2017. The Employment and Welfare Directorate’s assessment is that more and more pensioners are setting up to stop the entry of payment messages. However, I am aware that there are still many who cannot or will not use the online services at Nav.no. All pensioners have been told that those who do not have a PC or the ability to log in to your NAV can contact NAV Kontaktsenter and get the payment message read out or ask for a print in special cases. This year I have asked the Working and Welfare Session to show flexibility to users, such as: asks for such a printout of the payment message. NAV Kontaktsenter reports ever less demand for such printouts. However, there have been periods of too long waiting by phone to NAV Kontaktsenter. It has not been acceptable. Nav has also launched more measures to improve this. Digital online services shall be the general rule for administrative communication with both residents and businesses. This is an important principle in the government’s digitisation work. It provides efficient management and, in particular, better and more accessible services to users. Our society is digitised in a wide range of areas, whether it's tax settlements, banking services, the phone directory and prescriptions – just to mention something. In several municipalities, there is no longer a physical banking office. Understandably, not everyone feels entirely attached to this development. However, we see that more and more, including older ones, prefer the online solutions, whether for the bank, the tax message or the contact with Nav. In practice, if the State of Labour and Welfare has to go back to sending out the payment messages in the post, it will mean returning to sending out payment messages in the post to all pensioners and disabled persons who are not registered as digital users and to all those who have reserved to receive digital mail. Nav has to relate to the Divis reservation register and to those who have not registered as digital users. It would be completely inappropriate for Nav to develop and manage a separate and specific register of pensioners or other users who, for various reasons, want the monthly payment message in the post. I still believe that it is not appropriate to oblige the Employment and Welfare Department to change its practice in this area. As others have also mentioned, this will lead to a significant increase in costs – more than 30 million. kr per year shall be used for this purpose. After what I can see, it's not set at 30 million. kr to this initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1290	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1295	In the previous Nav message, a review theme was good services on the premises of users, and at the first crossroads, this principle falls. It merges into this government's lack of responsiveness. The government does not consider changes in people's pension to be important information. It has just been confirmed by the Council of State in its articles. The Labour Party disagrees. This is e.g. So why should it be less important for the country's pensioners? What is the Minister of Labour's message to those pensioners who are not currently given access to their own pension as a result of the change introduced by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1302	For all pensioners, self-employment benefits are transparent. It's on nav.no. If you go in there, you get full information about how development has been on your own ‘my side’. Those who can't, want to, or want to go into the hub.no, can call Nav, and then they'll get that information read out. At the same time, important messages and information shall continue to be sent on paper, such as: annual and other conditions. For example, I mentioned in my post that if you lose your spouse, and the income conditions change as a result of that, it will be an information you will receive in the post. We are committed to streamlining public administration. We believe that digitising these kinds of broadcasts is the right way to do it, and I still believe that we care for the needs of pensioners for information in a good way through the channels that are.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1309	This development is positive, especially for those on the digital train. It's making solutions easier, it's time-saving, and you get faster answers. But those who are not on the digital train, many of them very old, don't have the option to do it on their own. The risk is that sensitive information may be diverted. Nor do they see it as an alternative to calling Nav and sitting in a long queue, or to ask the right questions to get the answers you need. What we don't get is what this represents in expenditure. The Council of State itself says that it is now going so well that fewer and fewer who want changes are being reported. We see that we're assuming that the number is going to be 500,000, that it's going to cost 33 million. kr. The Pensioners’ Association has received 32 000 signatures and 32 000 are well below 500000. Does the government think that the 32 000 should have no offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1316	As far as I know, a large proportion of the 32,000 signatures are sent in digitally – but it's a poem. The vast majority of the elderly have become digital. Developments are fast, and we see that we communicate well on both tablets and computers, and most people also have telephones where you can access different websites. I understand that for many, this is a great transition. Many have been used to getting rid of the mail every month, so I understand that it is a transition. But what we're saying is that when the information doesn't change, when it's the same number of months out and months in, we don't think it's necessary to send it out by post. But of course it's important that they get the information in other channels when they want it, and that's among other things. also the background to access nav.no and get full information there, possibly call the contact centre. Then I agree – and I also said that in my post – that the queue at the contact centre has been too long, and that is also the background for Nav to take action to increase the capacity on the phone. I understand that many people don't think it's customary to change. Now the change has existed for one year. More adapt, and I think this is a priority that we won't go back on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1329	We record that the Council of State does not want that change, but now it still seems that the proposal of the Christian People's Party will have a majority. We are very pleased about that. That means that those who want it will be released from 1 July next year. Based on the estimates made by the Council of State, what is the impact in costs for 2018 when this proposal now appears to be adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1336	If not so long, the same big deal is going to adopt an ABE cut, where you increase from 0.5 to 0.7 pst. in Nav's budget, and finding the cuts can be an interesting exercise in itself, if you can't take this kind of cut either. As far as I can see, there is no money in this proposal. It is decided today to introduce this as of 1 July 2018, but it does not follow one krona with the proposal. It is estimated at approx. Fifteen million. NOK 30 million. kr on an annual basis. It's the Stortinge that grants money. As far as I can see, there is not one krona with the proposal that may be adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1345	Councillor Hauglie is steadfast, and I respect that very much. Governments don't take into account the objections that are, and stand at their positions, and it's respectable when you know all the reactions. But fortunately, through the proposals of the Christian People's Party, we will probably have a majority to change this from 1 July 2018, because the Christian People's Party follows up its position in ours and what they promised in the election campaign, and that is Christian People's Party to honor. When the council talks about ABE-cuts, and that this is going to be problematic for Nav, I want to say that ABE-cuts are what we call cheese needs. It's presented as someone else, as a novelty. It's not the state council's honor to make such a new speech when it's really cheese-related. However, my question is: why do the parties argue against II in the motion for a resolution of the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1354	Now I don't have the suggestion in front of me, and the wording in it, so I almost have to read it. I didn't understand what the question was.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1359	The recommendation II – which has a majority within the Committee – reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government from 1 January 2018 to provide all beneficiaries with information on changes in pension benefits by reference to a concrete overview of the calculations underlying the change.’; [[(per month) e-mail or letter)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1368	The starting point is that electronic communications should be the general rule of administration now. We have said that the pension rate that shows an information that does not change from month to month is not to be regarded as an important message, nor does it have to be sent out every month — that is, when the information does not change. At the same time, we say that the information should be available elsewhere, mainly at Nav.no, where you can find it, possibly that you can call the contact centre. The government says that in our efficiency improvement, this is one of the areas that we want to downgrade. That gives us $30 million. more that we can use for other good purposes, such as youth action, efforts against the long-term unemployed or other vulnerable groups. It's just a priority if you're going to spend $30 million. kr on paper and postage, or if you are going to spend 30 million. kr for other purposes that we give higher priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1377	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1384	The Progress Party has a lot of understanding of what more people want, about getting information about something as essential as how much they get in retirement. That's why the Progress Party together with the government has been very clear that Nav has to show flexibility, so that those who need it and still want it can get the information on paper. That flexibility has also been clear to the Council for Nav to show. For example: greater changes should, of course, all receive that information. If absolutely everyone's still going to get it on paper, I think it's going back, but we have to make sure that those who, as I said, need it and want it, get the information. And then there's also several ways to get the information. I think everyone in this room often has good wishes and more things you want to spend on, but a budget must always go up. If you give money to something, the money must be taken from somewhere. It's very easy just to make suggestions, without referring to any discovery. On the basis of the recent budgetary settlements with the Left and Christian People's Party, I would strongly urge the Christian People's Party to convert its proposal to a transfer proposal, so that one can go into it more thoroughly, and look at it on the basis of an overall situation, and also what one might want to downgrade in order to get this in place. I hope the Christian People's Party can come up here and support that this will be a transmission proposal, so that the Storting should not take a stand on a loose proposal that does not refer to any containment. But, as I said, regardless of how the voting goes afterwards, the Advance Party is crystal clear that Nav has to show flexibility in case of major changes in payments. To others who need it, whether in the case of loans, or that they live abroad and are dependent on documenting their income and what they have paid in advance taxes, it is important that Nav shows flexibility. We expect Nav to follow up loyally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1397	In the case we are dealing with today, there are two Roman numerals. Since the Council of State showed a manifest misunderstanding of my line, I have to repeat the second proposal contained in the document, promoted by a majority as a proposal for Decision II. It says: ‘The budget asks the Government from 1 January 2018 to provide all beneficiaries with information on changes in pension benefits by reference to a concrete overview of the calculations underlying the change.’; [[(per month) e-mail or letter)]] This has not been thoroughly addressed by the government parties – it is not even mentioned in the setting why a person opposes it. What's at the heart of this is what the Council of State said is that there's a difference when you get a pension, that's the same amount from month to month. This proposal is based on the situation where there are different amounts from one month to another, for example because the beneficiary has become widowed. The lump sum pension is different from the one you received when you were not a widow. When the widow then wonders how Nav has come up with the new pension in relation to the old pension, that information doesn't show you from Nav. There should be a common position that each pensioner should receive a written explanation – either by e-mail or by letter – of how the authorities come from one amount to the other. It would be a simplification for the public, because one then drops all the enquiries, and that would be necessary information for the pensioner. I would like to ask the Council of State to comment on what the government's arguments are, obviously, not to urge the government parties here in the Chamber to vote for II in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1411	This issue is not about whether you are in favour of or against digital development. For the vast majority of those on board the digital train, the development is seen as exclusively positive. Things get easier, you get information faster, you can spend time on more sensible jobs than being in line. The heart of what we are discussing today is the need for information and how we meet the need for those who are not on the digital train, who today feel that they are not receiving valuable information that others take for granted. We all know something about this. That's what this is all about, and what we want is that we should take into account that these people too will have the opportunity to acquire knowledge of their own income. I think the Council of State is liberating honestly when she says this is about a priority. The Council of State says that there is an area they ‘want to deprioritize’ and that it is ‘a pure priority’. I think that's a clean word for the money. The state council has chosen not to listen to the recordings of pensioners' organisations, of the country's pensioners who are not on the digital train today, but they want to give priority to other groups, other things. I think that's completely honest. But the Workers' Party has prioritised it. We have put in our alternative budget the means necessary for this to be done very well, and also taken into account the relatively high estimate made by the government in its budget. Then I register that the government is now trying to put pressure on the Christian People's Party to turn this into a transmission proposal. I believe that if the Stortinge adopts that proposal today, there is nothing wrong with the government following it up with proposals for appropriations in the revised budget. That's how you can easily solve that exact situation. But again, the working party has taken into account that it can be done from 1 January, and has contributed funds to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1424	I hear that the comments of the government parties that pensioners and others may not receive a letter of amendment to the decisions are requested. But I believe that we have informed about this, among other things. in the letter of the Council of State relating to the case, on the occasion of the case. It is stated here that, after today’s settlement, pensioners still receive a letter of decision as ‘important notification’ if the pension is changed. Those who have reserved for digital mail or who are not registered as digital users will thus continue to receive such letters — on paper — with information on the basis of the change in the item. The exemption is changes due to annual adjustments, changes in rates and adjustments. So this should be taken care of. I also hear that this should not be a proposal for or against digitisation and that it is good for those on the ‘digital train’. Every day I go into my grandmother's mailbox because we live in the same block, and I go inside because she doesn't like to pick up the mail. So there's someone who doesn't like paper either. She has no need for the pension slip in the form of letters, nor does she check the digital one. She gets information about this every month on her bank statement. That's enough for her. It seems to be well cared for by the vast majority of the alternative methods that Nav has come up with and that have been met with decisions here in the Chamber. What I think is special is that this piece of paper has now been gone for over a year. When the decision is taken in Stortinget today, it will be reintroduced one and a half years after it disappeared and users are waiting for the new system. The calculations show that there are 500,000 people who have reserved for digital mail, and that this will cost 33 million. kr in the year – which is more used to reintroduce paper slips to many who have already changed. It is not possible for Nav to pick out these individuals, then you have to make changes to the IT system instead. It will lead to other types of costs, if not paperwork costs. I think it's pretty old-fashioned, but I also think it's a little bit special that we adopt digitisation, we talk about digitisation, we say that this is going to benefit users, we demand that the public convert, while we require them, once they change, to make changes to meet users, and then we decide to reverse the system. I think that's serious, and I think that's a shame. Therefore, the Right will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1435	The representative Steinar Reiten of the Christian People's Party has explained the matter well on the part of the Christian People's Party. I just want to add that digitization is one of the things we really have to work with, and most of us sitting in the hall here are busy getting more digitized. It makes it much easier, and it's been good stuff about how a person saves time and how society saves resources. But in the middle of that progress, which digitalization is, it's extremely important that we be able to take care of those who don't have the same opportunities or prerequisites to manage everything that's being digitized. That's what this case is about. I'm going to promise the Storting that the Christian People's Party will work in the next few years to digitize other fields. I myself have been through the application for maternity leave to Nav, and at least it can be made easier, to say it mildly. The Christian People's Party was challenged by the representative of Wiborg to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal for better investigations. This matter has been carefully investigated. We were in this room a year ago and discussed the proposal. Then there was actually a majority that was very skeptical, but then we were assured that those who couldn't digitally were going to get the pension slip on paper. The representative Lundtegen and others were of those who were concerned about the matter, when we went back a year. When it turned out that it was not sent out by post to those who wanted it by post, the proposal came in revision. At the time, the Christian People's Party did not get through for what they wanted, but it was signaled that then we supported a proposal in the hall. We did – in the hall. So in the election campaign, the Christian People's Party said that we want those who need to get rid of the paper to get it. In the budget negotiations, we tried – and we had coverage, but the government parties did not want it to be done there. We then said clearly that we were voting in favour of a proposal for a representative in the Chamber. But the proposal for a representative reads on 1 January. It has been warned by the State Council and the Ministry of Finance that it is not possible, and one had to wait until later. For the sake of cleanliness, we have set 1 July as a date, because then we have revised in the meantime. When it comes to discussing the transmission proposal, I initially have no problem with it, if I thought it was followed up. If the Council of State can promise me that this will be followed up and not be trained again, we can send it, but if she does not promise that it will be followed up in the revised, we will maintain our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1446	Until the last one, I assume that the representative, Ropstad, understands that I cannot now foreshadow what the revised national budget will look like. It'll be an absolutely impossible promise for me to give here. But I record once again that the proposal that is now being adopted does not have money with it, and it will therefore be difficult to follow up. I got a few questions during the debate. To the representative Lundtägen: The payment messages sent out explain the changes that are being made, and as I mentioned in my main post, if you change civil status, for example. to widows or widowers, receive letters explaining how the changes will be. In the case of e-mails, Nav cannot send out personal information by e-mail. It has to do with the security of the information sent out. To the representative of Grande, yes, I have listened to the organisations of pensioners, but we disagree on how this should be handled. I believe it is right and proper to digitise these types of services. We've been doing that for a year now, and it's been saving $30 million. kr. I think it's a saving that's right, provided, of course, that the pensioners get the information they need. Then I'm almost tempted to tell a story about the State pension fund's 100th anniversary. Then it was told a story about the time you went from cash payment of pensions to sending it via post and bank giro. Many thought it would be a simplification. It created a lot of rabals and spittles. Many strongly disagreed with this change because, in this way, pensioners were deprived of an important social meeting place. However, the position was maintained that the pension was to be sent out in post and bankgiro, and then I assume that the pensioners found other social meeting places than meeting in Keyser's Gate to collect their pension in cash, as was done until the 1950s and 1960s. I'm going to make sure that Nav is still going to be flexible in meeting the pensioners who need this information, and of course also that Nav's information is written in an understandable way and is available, and that you get it correctly, so that everyone can feel safe that you have the information you need.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1461	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The President expects the record to be made both digitally and in paper form.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1477	On the basis of the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 22 of the Rules of Procedure of Stortingen, the Economic and Social Committee asked for a debate on Svalbard's business. At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the committee leader of the Central Party, 5 minutes to each of the other party groups and 10 minutes to the members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, eight lines of reply be given to post from members of the Government and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President will also take note of the fact that the Rules of Procedure include a provision on the speaking time for such debates, by allowing one representative from each party to have access to an unlimited number of articles. These speakers have been notified to the President in advance. Also members of the government who participate in the debate will have access to an unlimited number of posts. - It's a note. The first speaker is Geir Pollestad, leader of the nutrition committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1492	The Svalbard Advisory Committee has taken the initiative in the debate on Svalbard. It is – as far as I know – the third time that an own-initiative debate is held, and that is the first time that the Industry Committee has taken initiatives to this end. The background to the debate is the proposal in the State budget to phase out coal mining in the mines of Svea and Lunckefjell on Svalbard. I should like briefly to address the actual issues – or the theme of the debate – without going into a lot of speech. There are many of them in this case, and they have in common that they are largely associated with significant levels of insecurity. This is the Great Norwegian group, which I will now call Great Norwegian – which is 100 pst. State-owned – which runs the business through its companies. As of today, only the so-called Mine 7 is in production. Coal from this source is widely used to provide the power plant producing the power of Svalbard. Defective coal prices, demanding market prospects and large losses on foreign exchange insurance contracts have made it necessary for the State to recapitalise the company on several occasions in recent years. It's been the last years of so-called operational rest in Svea and Lunckeberg. The board of Great Norse mein, according to the budget proposal, that still operational rest in 2018 is not recommended. I also perceive the budget proposal so that the board now thinks it's profitable to resume mining. The government has obtained an external assessment of the Board of Directors’ business assessments, different options and the market valuations of the coal price in the future. A simple way to do some summaries. There are three options that stand before you, either to shut down the operations of the two mines, to continue operating, or to restart coal operation. Both the board and the external consultant of the government – and to the extent that the government – I perceive that one turns the thumb down for still operational rest. Then there are two options: decommissioning or resuming operations. The government suggests a liquidation. The consulting company Deloitte has assessed the market outlook for coal production for years to come and has also assessed the assessments and conclusions of Great Norske. Large Norwegians also have, among other things, by means of consultants, assessed the costs of winding-up and clean-up. It may be said that, regardless of your choice, costs will be significant. In recent days, there has been a correspondence between the Committee and the Ministry on the cost of cleaning. The Minister of Economic Affairs says that it can be indicated that costs will end up at least twice the base of the budget proposal. That's 700 million. kr over 4 years. It is important to think that even though coal production has been a cost item in the state budget in recent years, there have also been many times in the company Great Norske's over a hundred years of history as this has been a revenue item for the state. Furthermore, the government has announced the launch of a business and innovation strategy for Svalbard with which innovation in Norway will lead the way. He's waiting in 2018. So we have to make a big decision that affects the swallowing society, and we have to do that in the context of the state budget. With this debate, the Committee would like to ensure both an awareness of the matter and an answer to the questions raised, and that it could be done through an open debate. I look forward to the debate, which is not about all the questions relating to Svalbard. Many of these were well-lit when the swallowbard message was processed in Stortinget, after Innst. 88 S for 2016-2017. For this reason, the theme of the own-initiative debate is industry at Svalbard. I'll now go over to say a little bit about the central party's position in the matter. Svalbard policy is important to us, and mining is one of the bones of the swallowing society. It is important to ensure business activities that enable Svalbard to continue to be — and should be — a family society. In previous rounds, there have been extra permissions, such as: in the case of operational plight, the central party's starting point is to stand on the broad plurality – to form broad pluralities together with the government party and also to form a broad plurality consisting of several opposition parties – for the decisions and the promises made. But the Central Party has also been very clear that a possible decision on the closure of coal operations on Svalbard should be a result of a political decision and not a result of market conditions. You can discuss for a long time what you're dealing with here, because it's not about a complete closure of the coal industry as a principle, but I also perceive that there's something more than a purely market relationship on the basis of which the decision is to be made. For the Central Party, this is a difficult matter, and we have not concluded before today's debate. We believe that the government in the budget proposal answers very poorly on what basis they have drawn their conclusions. In a relatively short time, Deloitte has produced a report on the prospects for coal. There's only one thing to say about these assessments: they're related to significant insecurity. Uncertainty is, if possible, even greater in relation to the cost of cleaning up, and it is a little unclear for the centre party how an extended operating period will affect the cleaning costs. And this is also unclear to us: with the operation that is now in Mine 7, it is uncertain how long the resources that supply the power plant on Svalbard will last, if the decision to shut down gets multiples. The central party also believes that the government is slow to start a work on a business and innovation strategy. This work should have been started when one went to rest. There is also a very high level of uncertainty about which nutritional properties are available at Svalbard, as long as power supply is scarce. We from the Center Party feel that the Center Party is at the back of the case, and that we are going to make a big decision with a lot of uncertainty. The centre party has met LO Svalbard, and I have to say, there are two quite different realities that you'll meet when you meet the workers who have been in the mines, and when you hear and read the proposal from the government. The cleaning uncertainty is also associated with the time you are getting started. You will be notified that you can join us in the summer of 2018. In that case, the cost would be 158 million. kr. If you don't want to get started in 2018, costs will be roughly the same, roughly 140 million. kr. Back to the energy supply, which I think is very central when discussing new business. It has been said that the improved coal power plant at Svalbard will have a life span of 20-25 years, significantly longer than the coal reserve at Gruve 7, with today's operation. I expect that the Council of State will come closer to the debate. The centre party will follow the debate today, and he will be an important part of our decision-making base in a matter that is important to Svalbard, but which is also important to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1528	Let me begin by thanking the Committee for taking the initiative in this debate. Svalbard is an important part of the sovereign Norwegian territory, which unfortunately too often gets too little attention in the dinner talks around the whole country. Let me also thank the chairman of the committee for a very straightforward, factual presentation of some of the facts and for the invitation to participate in a discussion not only about coal operations at Svalbard, but also about business activities at Svalbard. I share the opinion of the chairman of the committee, Mr Pollestad, that whether coal mines are to be operated on Svalbard is not a purely market assessment. It is also a political decision – also in the light of the culture and history it represents. Nor is it the case that the Labour Party will conclude in this debate, but I will be so clear that I say that we will see what information is on the table when the budget is to be dealt with, but with the information that is currently on the table, the conclusion is that the time has come for the closure of the coal industry at Svalbard. And then there's a slightly more nuanced picture, because there's some time perspective here. There is a difference between selling coal mines around the world and supplying the Svalbard energy plant with coal until a new solution is in place. There are also good economic reasons to stop this business. I am not quite sure that the representative Pollestad is right in his claim that significant revenues have come to the state fund of coal operations up through history. If you look at the recent history, it's at least a few years since it's been, in particular, the revenues from the coal industry. However, other financial income related to foreign exchange security, etc., has been examples. It is also in today's world, in 2017, where we have a rather depressing Bonn meeting behind us, a significant political cost for the Arctic nation of Norway to operate with coal mining in the Arctic. There are costs we bear with us when we try to make other important grips for the nation. I also think that the cleaning-up cost after the closure of the mine in Svea will come anyway. It's a question of when to take it. Of course, we can discuss the present value and the bill on it, but there's a cost there. I understand that there is considerable uncertainty about what the final cost is. There is no one who has dismantled a mine in Arctic strips before, and I also assume that clean-up is to be done in an environmentally sound way according to the high standard that Norway has as its ambition to have in other areas when operating in the Arctic, and that Norway is going ahead and shows how this can be done. The energy supply has to be discussed. When the Storting last year dealt with the swallowbard message, it was one of the most central points. The size also made a request decision to the government, which the government followed up in the revised national budget and gave some preliminary answers on where to move. I am pleased that the government has followed it up, but the need for this clarification to come quickly on the table has not diminished with the situation that has arisen now. So I must fervently request that the Council of State contribute to this investigation being carried out as quickly as possible, so that we can find another sustainable and emission-free energy solution for Svalbard as soon as possible – which provides both security, redundancy and not least has the necessary capacity. I want to add that the challenge we have in Svalbard, in many ways, is the same as you experience in Alaska, in northern Canada and in parts of northern Russia. We're really talking about what Americans describe as "off grid network", with high energy costs and local emissions. It should be possible here, in cooperation – under the umbrella of the Arctic Council or other existing cooperation bodies, together with Americans, Canadians and others with Arctic interests – to find modern, technological solutions that provide a forward-looking and innovative energy supply for the Svalbard environment and that are not connected to the Norwegian network.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1545	Svalbard is an important part of Norway and the Arctic. The overall objectives of the svalbard policy are set, and one of the main objectives is the maintenance of Norwegian communities on the island group. That goal has mainly been achieved through the longyear city community. It's been about a year since we in Stortinget debated the swallowing news, which a unanimous bigotry stood behind. The background to today's debate is the Committee's attention to the proposal contained in the State budget for the closure of mining in Svea/Lunckefjell. But there has been over time a change in the employment pattern of Svalbard. Large Norwegian and coal companies have been one of the corner stone companies. In Gruve 7, there is still operation, and it will be, at least in approx. ten years ahead, depending on how many shifts are put on. As a result of the economic challenges facing Great Norske, they have added 650 million. kr since 2015 as well as 300 million. NOK for the purchase of properties. At the same time, the government has granted money through both the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries to start work on the development of Svalbard's industry. A new business and innovation strategy for Svalbard will be completed in the spring of 2018. It is likely to contribute to strengthening the knowledge of new business, now that coal operations are no longer to be the leading economic activity. There has been a lot of industrial work on Svalbard since the fall in coal production. The government has contributed money to boost work, and both the local government and Innovation Norway have employees at Svalbard who work with a strategy for industrial activity. During my visit to Svalbard in October, I met her who is working on industrial development in local government. Here I got a good knowledge of what's happening to new activity. This work is very close to completion, so a final report will not be available until next summer. But many business start-ups have already taken place. The NIBR Urban and Regional Research Institute has carried out community and business analyses for Svalbard since the 1990s. The last analysis was presented now, in November 2017, and it tells a lot about social development over time. It shows that Svalbard’s economy is undergoing restructuring and that the growth of employment in other industries has replaced much of the job losses after the change in coal production. The NIBR report concludes that the decline in coal activity in recent years has not resulted in such a strong impact on total employment in Svalbard, and that this is due to a stable investment in alternative basic activity in both R & D and travel. And once activity and employment are maintained, the population has also been stable. The coal industry has, as has been said, been an important support for this society. But coal has been of less importance in recent years. This started several years before the stop in Svea/Lunckefjell, because the changes in the tariff provisions between employees and Great Norwegian led to the fact that a large proportion of employees have not been resident but have commuted between Svea and mainland. But it is clear that the stop in Svea/Lunckefjell also leads to a reduction in settlement on Svalbard. Therefore, the job done in finding other alternative activities is important. Another important factor is that the proportion of Norwegian citizens has fallen slightly. This is probably due to the fact that the new activity is largely related to tourism and research. Therefore, it will be interesting to follow developments in the future, if you are able to create new activities on Svalbard, which also attract Norwegian workers. The starting point for the government is clear through the swallowing and swallowing of the swallowing budget: that Longyearbyen is a viable community, attractive to families, and a society that contributes to the achievement and support of the overall objectives of the swallowing policy. I want to end by giving a homage to the swallowing society for the way they've stood together, and the way they've handled the difficult years they've spent behind them. Both the gliding accident and the downpour in Great Norse have shown a cohesion and a capacity for survival that stands for respect. This cohesion and the numbers we now see for new activity on Svalbard give a good indication that it will succeed for the svalbard community, with good help from government and others to create new activity on Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1566	First, I would like to say that it is good in a way that we have an own-initiative debate on the situation and the challenges of Svalbard, and the economic development that is taking place on the island group. What I have to admit, however, is that I was a little uncertain about what would come out of such a debate that would not come into the budget debate. But I am pleased with the debate, I think the svalbard community is pleased that we have such a debate. Svalbard has a long tradition of economic activity, and it started hunting and fishing as early as the 1600s. The coal industry began in the 1900s, and this activity has formed the basis of the society we have today on the island group. Until now, activities have contributed to a significant and stable annual activity in Longyearbyen. The development we are seeing today at Svalbard has been going on for over a year. A progressively wider industrial structure in Longyearbyen has resulted in a less dependent society on mining activities than in the past. The industries which have developed at the same time as the coal industry are industries which also have natural advantages, including travel and research in particular. However, there are also other industries with significant employment in Svalbard, such as construction, service industries and public activities. The gradual development of a more differentiated business life is an advantage for future industrial development and for the creation of new jobs in Longyearbyen. The activity of industries such as industry, construction, hotels and restaurants has an employment trend that is significantly consistent with the development of mining. However, the coal industry remains significant, with about 100 employees in Great Norwegian, as long as the rest period lasts. When we are going to draw lines in Svalbard's industrial policy, it is important to think about what politicians can do to facilitate the economic development of the island group. Our task is not to identify which enterprises and new private jobs will be in the future. The role of authorities and politicians is primarily to facilitate the creation of new jobs in the industries where Svalbard has natural advantages. In travel and research, there seems to be good opportunities for developing this. Also within the service industries, infrastructure and logistics services, the maritime sector and trade in goods, there is potential for new jobs and increased value creation. In this respect, we have to deal with the general activity in Norway moving northwards. Fishing activity moves northwards due to warmer water, and the petroleum industry also increases its activity in the north, as much of the undiscovered petroleum resources lie in the northern parts of the globe. Cruise traffic and travel are increasing, especially in the north. All this matters to Svalbard. In order to meet these developments, it is also essential that one strengthens the preparedness of Svalbard, especially in the sea areas. I am pleased that the government has had a focus on this, and that this was put on the agenda when the svalbard message was dealt with last year, and in the emergency message, which was dealt with this year. The latter Communication highlighted that the geographical location of Svalbard, large distances and challenging climate present specific challenges in the area of social security and preparedness. Weather radar on Svalbard was one of several measures taken to ensure maritime transport to a greater extent, and this would also benefit the local community's ability to notify of conditions that could, in their utmost consequence, harm civil society and business. Intensification of rescue work, maritime mapping, Arctic emergency base and pre-storage of equipment are other measures. In addition, a strengthened presence of search and rescue ships and oil preparedness is crucial. In order to further strengthen the development of industry, it is my clear message that we follow up the decisions discussed in the previous communications and that we continue to work seriously to strengthen the preparedness of Svalbard for the benefit of the community and industry in the future. The measures need to be followed up and evaluated in the time ahead, and it is important that we are susceptible to further action. Finally, I would like to add that a business and innovation strategy for Svalbard is to be developed. As part of this work, a collection of input and evaluations from different actors will serve as a basis for reviewing the long-term economic development potential of Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1587	The size has dealt with several times, as the representative Pollestad explained, the question of where to go for the swallowing society. There has been a discussion of dilemmas – on the one hand, coal extraction and energy production from coal, which is something we have to end with, and on the other hand, the economy and society at Svalbard are so tied to coal extraction that it is challenging to change. The time for action has become overdue. We can no longer push the problems in front of us. For the environment it is irresponsible, and for the people of Svalbard it is disrespectful. Svalbard must have the opportunity to participate in the green shift as soon as possible. North areas are becoming increasingly important, and several nations have increased the focus in the north, both because of the large resources and because climate change can be understood here. In this picture, the government's passivity is almost impossible to understand. The size must be given the opportunity to define where to go and the urgency of the situation. Climate change is happening twice as fast on Svalbard as in the rest of the world. Many suggest that the temperature increase is faster than previously assumed and that the ice melting in the Arctic and the sea level rise are underestimated by the climate panel. When the ice disappears, it is of great importance to the animal life that depends on the ice, for example. seals and polar bears. In line with this understanding, two thirds of the island group are protected as national parks and nature reserves. It's an explicit wish that the island group, as we like to call our last original wilderness, should remain that way for our descendants, and that Svalbard should appear as one of the most well-managed wilderness areas in the world. SV believes that Svalbard should be an example of world-class environmental management. In the annual budget, the government has decided to reduce the coal industry in Svalbard. SV has requested this for a long time. Climate change means that we need to move from coal to other renewable energy sources. But the government says nice little about the way forward for the future industries of Svalbard. There is no doubt that Great Norwegian has been important for employment at Svalbard. But now there is a need for a policy for alternative jobs, and it is incomprehensible to me that the government has been so late in planning this situation, which has been announced for a long time. In its alternative state budget, SV proposes to grant 40 million. kr for conversion measures on Svalbard. This would be a good start. One of the main questions for Svalbard in the future is, as the representative Eirik Sivertsen was about, what kind of energy supply Svalbard should have. It's urgent to find answers. Today, Svalbard is coal-based. Several options have been introduced that need to be further assessed. A land cable for power supply from North Norway via the Castberg field can open up many new possibilities. It is also possible to make Longyearbyen the world's first emission-free community by basing energy production on hydrogen. Other options also need to be assessed and investigated so that the decision-making basis is as good as possible. Norwegian presence through sustainable business will be crucial for our position on Svalbard in the future. There are a number of options for alternative industries that you have to bet on in the future. Data storage, research, fisheries, tourism and logistical hubs are activities that are highlighted in the debate. The time has come for action. We cannot let the swallowing society sail its own sea as the ice melts around our northernmost regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1612	This is the third time that an own-initiative debate is held and so far in many ways confined to the economic perspective. There are many interesting reflections to date, but I might especially like to draw out Eirik Sivertsen's articles – I can sign everything he said from this pulpit. It's a diverse society that you're now facing: where are we going? I don't think it's time to look back, because Svalbard must be actively managed, in line with the Svalbard Treaty. This is an important area for Norway. The left will work to integrate Svalbard even more clearly in Norwegian policy towards the north and Arctic regions. It is important to maintain the settlement and activity of Svalbard. It is therefore necessary to further develop Svalbard by investing in research, travel and other activities in order to replace the coal industry. In this context, it is important that the future of Great Norse is clarified in close cooperation with the local population of Svalbard and that no new industrial activities are excluded in competition with existing industries. The left will help to ensure stable and predictable conditions for the tourism industry, as well as the presence of Innovation Norway on Svalbard. It is important to stimulate innovation and start-up. Furthermore, more attention needs to be paid to research and higher education. And in the case of travel, I believe that there should be a high acceptance for tourist activity in area 10, and that access to establishing commercial cabins in the area is important for the tourism industry. I believe that it must be followed up with the will to implement this in practice and that a constructive dialogue between authorities and travel life on the implementation of the establishment should be ensured. I believe it is important that the industry has a simple and predictable regulatory framework to deal with, which takes into account smaller, local actors, for example. it may be difficult for local operators with small vessels to comply with the notification regime and with time limits for voyages at sea, designed for the purpose of arriving at sea. In particular, the family community Longyearbyen is one of the most important instruments for the enforcement of Norwegian swallowing policy. Therefore, the Left will maintain a good service for children and young people, such as ensuring safe living conditions, including Longyearbyen. We believe that there is a need for a broad, open and courageous approach to the future energy supply at Svalbard. We need to assess, as several have been inside, both wind, solar and hydropower, geometric force, sea cable to the mainland, gas, possibly coal with CO 2 capture and storage. We need to take that debate forward. Longyearbyen will be a natural hub for activity, logistics and preparedness in the Arctic. Therefore, we should consider whether Longyearbyen can have more rescue and preparedness-related tasks. We want to be in and strengthen the Coast Guard's presence in the area around Svalbard, and in particular, we wanted to investigate the new port facility in Longyearbyen. Here there is a great potential within marine industries in the north. The marine industry has the power to become a new major industry in Svalbard. In this context, it is essential to obtain a rapid and unambiguous picture of the potential, the framework and the possibilities and direction of the industry, including the capture and delivery for local use. In this context, it is important to follow up the findings of the concept selection investigation for port development in Longyearbyen. Of course, in the case of such a debate, more of us are impatient. We had the swallowbard message up for treatment in ours. It pointed to some of these challenges, but also that we only have time and way. Then I don't think it's about looking back, but I think it's about looking at what's in the room of opportunity, and not least, that the Sivertsen was inside, that we actually have a responsibility. When we look at the meeting in Bonn just for a three week's time back, this is also set in the context, as the representative Sivertsen also said.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1638	As a newly elected staging representative, I have had a steep learning curve over the past few weeks. Budgetary work requires its commitment to both the propositions and the procedures for progress. In addition, when an own-initiative debate on Svalbard is the first case in the Chamber of the Business Committee, the learning curve becomes almost vertical. Nevertheless, it has been very interesting to address the specificities, opportunities and challenges of the swallowing community. The impression that is left after a weekend of reading the svalbard message is that the room for opportunity is actually large in terms of further developing business activity, research and education at Svalbard in the years to come. However, it assumes that some fundamental assumptions are in place when the period of coal extraction now runs to the end. All the economic development and use of technology requires the supply of energy as a fundamental prerequisite. That's, as we see it, the challenge that most demands new solutions. The existing coal power plant from 1983 has high CO 2 emissions relative to energy production, and despite extensive upgrades, the power plant has an expected residual life of only a little over 20 years. It has proved difficult to obtain profitable operation in Mine 7, which supplies coal to the power plant, and remaining coal reserves will be exhausted with the current mode of operation and, if one also takes out poor quality coal, over a 20-year period. It asks us the inevitable question: What kind of energy solutions are relevant to Svalbard when the coal ends? Here, the time horizons are unpleasantly short, and there is an urgent need to explore and implement new technologies based on new and preferably renewable energy carriers. Wind and wave energy may be current, but hardly enough to supply the swallow-bard community with light and heat in an Arctic climate. Then we must also be willing to realise that LNG can be a much more environmentally friendly alternative than today's coal-fired power plant, perhaps in combination with a CO 2 deposition pilot project in the Advent Valley. At least that is technically possible, according to a study from the University Centre at Svalbard. When the Storting dealt with the Svalbard Communication in 2016, an overall Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence said that it is now necessary to consider options for connecting Svalbard to the continental electricity grid with a sea cable. There is no doubt that there will be a very expensive project, but sustainable and stable supply of energy is the very prerequisite for continued settlement on Svalbard. Then one must also be willing to assess solutions, such as: a sea cable. In the context of the discussion of the Svalbard Communication, a Joint Committee also asked for the government to launch in spring 2017 a broad analysis of the potential for future energy supply on Svalbard based on sustainable and renewable solutions. We in the Christian People's Party believe that this is the main challenge we are now facing in ensuring continued Norwegian settlement on the island group. All further development depends on the safe supply of energy. The time horizons are short, the energy demand will need to increase with new and expanded activity, and the solutions must be such that the vulnerable squalid nature is not further burdened. We meet the government's investigation into future energy supply at Svalbard. In the extension of what I have been involved in in terms of energy supply, I would like to highlight in particular a new opportunity that opens up within the travel life segment. A few weeks ago, it became clear that the Ulstein Group in More and Romesdal have concluded a contract to build at least one expedition cruise ship that is specially built for adventure cruises in polar struts. Such expedition cruise ships seem to be able to become a new trend in travel life, among other things. The media giant National Geographic is on the investment side. In the swallowing notification, the government refers to the need for further upgrading and construction of new port infrastructure in Longyearbyen. This will be followed up in the NTP for the years 2018-2029, where it is set at 300 million. kr in the first part of the planned period to complete the work. Today’s cruise traffic in the waters of Svalbard uses Longyearbyen as a port of call, and the new cruise ships will carry a segment of tourists who especially want to experience nature in a harsh polar route. It provides a potential for the further development of land-based travel life on Svalbard, with different experiences that give a low climate impact. However, the problem of cruise traffic is high emissions of exhaust gases from ships in port. In the swallowing news, the government shows that it does not want large investments in infrastructure, including: because increased housing with associated economic activity will increase the environmental impact. However, greater availability of clean energy will make it possible to establish shore-side power facilities for ships in Longyearbyen, which could significantly reduce the environmental impact of this type of tourism.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1667	Svalbard and swallowbard-related issues are an important area. It is central to Norway, and it is a priority for the government. That is why we are also committed to having a forward-looking swallowing policy that helps to achieve the objectives we have. The Government proposes in the State budget for 2018 to wind up the coal industry of Great Norske in Svea and Lunckefjell. The background for this is set out in the budget proposal. Let me, however, get into some of the main points of the assessments. Predicting how coal prices are moving forward in time is a difficult exercise – no one can know for sure. However, what seems quite clear is that there is no basis for defending a reboot from a commercial perspective. Until then, the risk in the project and the risk of significant losses for the State are too great. It is also the assessment of the Ministry’s adviser, who has assessed the proposal submitted by the company and has concluded in a very clear way. It is also considered by the company that there is considerable uncertainty about the assumptions they have made regarding the profitability of the start-up and further operation of Svea and Lunckefjell. Nor can I see that new, decisive arguments have emerged after the government's draft budget which affects the main conclusion of the business evaluation we have made. As indicated in the budget proposal, the government’s assessment is that there are currently no swallowing policy considerations to justify the significant costs and the significant risk of their losses. Although the coal industry has historically been the driving force of the local economy, Longyearbyen has now gained a significantly more varied economy, and coal production will now be one of many industries. So it is that the state also has other instruments to take care of its swallowing policy concerns, for example through direct ownership of Svalbard. As part of the draft budget, the Ministry has also presented proposals for a framework for the future activities of Great Norske. We suggest that the main business of the company should be the operation of Mine 7 in Longyearbyen. The government cannot see serious reasons why Great Norwegian will have a broader role to play in contributing to further development of Svalbard. It is our opinion that other actors can do this in a better way. The increased industrial diversity in Longyearbyen also means that the role of Great Norwegian for the Longyearbyen community is not as important as it used to be. Against this background, we propose that the activities of Great Norske in addition to mining are not extended and that the activities of Gruve 7 be carried out on a commercial basis and in the context of squalid policy considerations. We have also announced that we need to assess the closerness of the housing business that Stor Norske operates today. It's natural, seen in the light of evolution. We will also assess the organisation of the property management that Great Norske today is doing on behalf of the department. Let me nevertheless be very clear that, with the government's proposals, Great Norske will continue to play an important role in the Longyearbyen community and be a significant player, both through the operation of Mine 7 and the significance of this for Longyearbyen and through the clearing-up process in Svea and Lunckefjell. Clean-up work will be a major project, which will provide significant activity in the coming years. It will also contribute to providing the longyear city community with additional time for conversion. Let me in this connection, and in this room, also make it clear that these types of clean-up projects are complex and extensive. There is significant uncertainty about the cost of the clean-up work to be done. We have also underlined that in the budget proposal, and I refer to my letter of 28 November and the current date to the Stortingen on this point. However, the uncertainty associated with the clean-up operation does not change the conclusion that the coal industry should now be closed down and that cleaning should be carried out. On the government side, we're committed to developing the longyear city community further. New jobs in travel and other business and continuing research and higher education development are very important to achieve this. That's why I'm now working on, among other things. a dedicated business and innovation strategy for Svalbard, which will review the long-term economic development potential of Svalbard. I propose after New Year's to travel to Svalbard to get input from the community to this work. That is why the government is also working on its own research strategy for Svalbard. That is why we are also positive about looking at new business opportunities at Svalbard, for example. landing of fish and crustaceans related to local seafood and to travel life. That's why the government has also set aside $300 million. SEK to new Kai in Longyearbyen in the National Transport Plan, and we also look at other conversion measures. A differentiated economic structure society will be less vulnerable to changes in markets, industries and individual enterprises. It is therefore desirable to develop a broader and more complex business life on Svalbard. This is part of what the government is concerned about. And already in 2015 a total of 50 million was granted. kr to jobs and conversion in Longyearbyen. A significant part of the funds went to Innovation Norway, which has used the funds for mobilising business and to support 27 innovative projects on Svalbard. Innovation Norway reports that the funds that came in 2015 have brought increased attention to the potential of Svalbard, including for mainland enterprises. The other funds were used for local measures for increased migration and jobs. The role of the authorities is primarily to facilitate the creation of new jobs within the industries where Svalbard has natural advantages. Travel and research are important sectors in Longyearbyen today. In these sectors, there appears to be good opportunities for the development of new jobs. Also within the service industries, infrastructure and logistics services, maritime and goods trade, there is potential for new jobs and increased value creation. Let me finish my post by saying that shutting down the coal industry in Svea and Lunckefjell is a significant and no easy decision to make. It is also a decision with major implications for the community, for families and for individuals. The fact that the Stortinget today has its own own own initiative debate based on the government's proposals also bears witness to this. The coal industry has a traditional history of Svalbard. It has contributed to and been the cornerstone of the development of Svalbard and the long-term urban community, and it has been important in both an industrial and a national perspective. We're all going to be very proud of this story. However, this should not prevent us from making the right decisions on how to develop business in Svalbard and Longyearbyen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1706	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1711	Let me thank the Council of State for her articles and review. I want to start with: although I am not a member of the committee who has participated in the correspondence, I see parts of the correspondence given in the media. As I said in my post, I understand that there is considerable uncertainty about the type of operations you are planning to do when you're going to rig down an entire mine in a place that's mildly said inaccessible, at least on a normal scale. Nevertheless, it is worrying that this kind of deviation is now being made in relation to the first costs notified. At the risk that I have misunderstood, I realized that the Council of State has now indicated that you might be on the double of the cost that first came on the table. When so much uncertainty is still being highlighted here today, my question is: How will the Council of State work to minimise the risk and ensure that no further cost cuts of the same magnitude are now being made?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1718	This is a very good question. As we noted in the landfill proposal, there is considerable doubt about the estimations that the company has just made. What they had assessed so far when we presented the state budget was a clean-up that could cost an estimated 700 million. kr. But they say it's very uncertain. Much depends on the requirements of environmental authorities. So the starting point is that the area should be restored as it was before coal operations started. Infrastructure must be removed, substantial work must be done and, therefore, considerable uncertainty is raised. So the company, not the company's board of directors, but administratively, has made new estimates – preliminary assessments – and has now reported that they are seeing that costs can be much higher. We have a good system to review this. When we talk about costs of this magnitude, we need to have an impact assessment of the proposals we receive – a KS1 and a KS2 – and we will implement that immediately when the Stortinget has made its decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1725	Thanks for the answer. I am sure that the funding question and the cost of cleaning up Svea and Lunckeberg will be debated several times in this room, but let me move on: I want to say to the Council of State that I agree that we will build our business on Svalbard on a natural advantage, but also on the advantage of the competence and the settlement that is actually there, so we are not just talking about natural resources. On that occasion, I heard a representative of the government party Progress Party – Morten Ørsal Johansen – say that petroleum activity is a possible new food supply on the island group. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1730	The svalbard community has a potential in many areas, such as natural advantages or other possible ways of feeding. I have now said that we are starting to make a business and innovation plan. We're going to do that in cooperation with the community. Of course, I have not taken a stand for petroleum activities in the Arctic as part of this plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1735	Let me move on. I've been busy with Svalbard all this fall, among other things. is the broad consensus in this room – as we hear in the debate – that travel life is a potential and natural future economic pathway and the basis for activities and settlement on the island. The Svalbard Business Association has been very concerned about the role of infrastructure. It's about port, but it's also about airport. Now I have had several rounds with the Council of State colleague in the Ministry of Transport and tried to clarify how the government has analysed the impact on the tourism industry, and how it has involved the tourism industry and the community in choosing to downgrade the status of Svalbard airport from an international airport to a national airport. It tells the travel actors that they will have an impact on their ability to grow. I have still not received an answer to that question. Perhaps the State Council of Malta can clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1740	I don't think so, given that this is a question that lies with the Minister of Transport to answer. What I can say is that the device at the airport is not of such a nature that it meets the requirements of an international airport. That's why we've downgraded it to a national airport. So it's -- and it's very important -- that charter tourism is still going to happen. But it's going to be a national airport, and that's the good reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1745	I was obviously unclear about the problem. I also understand that the Council of State cannot respond to the assessments of the Ministry of Transport, but the travel industry of Svalbard must naturally be within the constitutional responsibility, at least when the Council of State intends to put forward a nutrition strategy for Svalbard. So I try again: it was said here earlier in the debate that it is important to include local forces. And with local forces, I understand local nutritionists, local government and the people of Svalbard. When you do this downgrading, you also have to make an impact assessment. Then I wonder, what are the consequences of changing the status of the airport? I understand that there are investments on the ground there, and costs. But what I'm asking is, what are the analyses of the impact on the tourism industry and the travel life effort on Svalbard? How have actors — including business operators and locals or elected people — been included in the assessments and the collection of information and consequences before deciding to downgrade the status?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1750	I am, to a very great extent, the Minister for Travel Life, also responsible for Svalbard. Unlike my predecessor, who I don't know if was ever on Svalbard on that occasion, I've visited Svalbard many times. I've had a lot of meetings with the actors. In fact, I have never received any input from the actors that there have been any reactions to the government's decision. Making these kinds of decisions involves many government departments. There have been thorough assessments without me going into them. But there are several things that make us the decision we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1755	I have to say I'm worried when I hear about the great uncertainty that is at cleaning-up costs. I want to challenge the Council of State to say something about the cleaning-up costs. A clean-up operation is required in any case, but will require cleanup costs to be changed when running on, resuming operation, and emptying mines? Does it make it easier to clean up? Would it have any effect? The reason why I ask you that is precisely that one should want one to have an overall assessment of the different options when we decide. I can see that we don't have that right now. The question is: Will cleaning up costs be affected if a mine drive is empty?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1762	Predicting if the future is terribly difficult. If we turn the clock back just a few years, back to 2014, you open the Luncke mountain with bark and bark. One had invested $12 billion. kr because you believed in the future. It took one year for the company to ask the state for help because there were major liquidity problems. I'm saying it because it shows how wonderfully difficult it is to predict coal prices in the future. My answer is, if coal prices get very high in the future, if reopening is an economic success, it'll of course be cheaper to clean up. If they don't, if the coal prices aren't going to be very high, and reopening the mine won't be a great success, it won't be cheaper. Then it'll be more expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1770	About every Svalbard business will involve access to energy. With the mode of operation in Gruve 7 no, it is said that there are ten years of operation on the mine. In connection with the coolant message, a lifetime is calculated at the power plant until 2038. Then I don't get it to go completely together that one should have 12 years from when it is empty for coal to be shut off by the energy plant. My question is: Does the Minister of Industry mean that it is possible to obtain some significant new business, for example: in the fisheries sector, without first improving the energy supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1777	The OED is assigned to do a work related to alternative energy supply. That assignment was given in connection with the swallowing message. The representative Sivertsen asked if I would promise to follow up, and I promise to follow up because it's very important. So we're going to have coal mine 7 for an estimated ten years plus. That was the last information the Governor gave me when I visited Longyearbyen not long ago. The same time perspective was maintained in Lunckefjell – 2029. But it's clear that we need to have new, alternative energy sources in place, and it's working with OED.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1782	In the Deloitte report, it is recommended that a start be made on the process of concluding a clean-up contract before the government budget is treated. That's what the report says. I hope that the knowledge of coal mining and coal prices in Deloitte is greater than the knowledge of political processes. At the same time, if one does not start in time, it will not be possible to carry out any clean-up work in 2018, according to the State budget. My question is: does the Council of State expect us to start cleaning up in 2018 in the event of a winding-up decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1789	I believe that knowledge is greater about economics than politics, so it is of course not relevant to conclude any contracts even if it could save the state for money – because that was the purpose and purpose of that recommendation. Our goal must be to get started during 2018, but I have to be very clear that when this kind of cost and estimate comes on the table, we have to make a proper assessment, an external assessment of it. We also do not know the instructions we get from the environmental authorities. That means we have to go through an impact assessment to get a final plan for this, and then we have to get started as soon as we have to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1794	In 1995, I was so lucky to have learned at Svalbard School together with three fellow students. This was in April. We arrived an island in silent darkness and left the island four weeks later, and then it was bright all night. The transition from dark time to glorious light was quick and magical. We experienced animal life at Svalbard close by, we went on a scooter tour, and we enjoyed the outdoors – in addition to being teachers in the classes we had been assigned. I can promise you that this was a world-class experience, so the island has a great potential for developing tourism, I'm not in doubt about it. It is also a great potential for more industries, and it is gratifying with the plans for a new port in Longyearbyen [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1799	Time is up - quick question, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1804	Does the Minister for Industry think that a conversion programme is needed now, as the situation has become?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1809	I announced in my article a considerable amount of work that has been going on in and on from the government since 2015. I understand from the representative Fagerås’ posts that she thinks we have had a striking passivity. I don't remember in that, because the representative Fagerås put in a government that actually planned to invest in Lunckeberg, with a flourishing future ahead of him, and then it took one year from we came into government to the world so quite differently. However, since 2015, we have introduced conversion materials, we have had Innovation Norway on Svalbard to contribute to new business activity. We're making a new business plan, we're making a research and education plan. We provide assistance through the National Transport Plan with new port infrastructure — and in a number of other areas. It's our answer to how the state is going to help create new jobs at Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1820	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1825	I have been informed that in my first post I was injured to say that the centre party was at the back of this case. There must be limits to being constructive in the opposition. Of course, I meant that the government was behind this case. I would like to thank you for the articles that have been held and for the articles from the Council of State. I am still with a considerable degree of anxiety in this matter, if the market assessments on which a person is deciding are correct. The example of the assessment that was made when the investment decision about Lunkfjell was taken shows that it may not have been a very wise assessment, but it also shows that the decision we are making can prove to be wrong. We have to deal with this. When a set is started on clean-up, it is set and shown no way back. I'm worried that we'll start with the analyses and assessments of the cost of this and narrow it down after the decision has been taken. Now we've been signaled that it could be a double, but it's still a booklet with considerable insecurity. I noticed that the representative in his post said that the operating time for Gruve 7 was expected to be 20 years. I have great confidence that the representative of Reiten is right and has the right to read, but I believe that it is with the mode of operation that was before a check-in for operational rest, and that it will now be ten years, and then I think that the question of energy supply to the energy plant – after Gruve 7 is to be closed – is definitely relevant in the debate. So many can predict and say what was tricked, and what is going to happen, but I think it's important to take this debate, because when we deal with the big message about Svalbard, it was a proposal from SV to have a gradual decarbonisation and coal drift on Svalbard. Multiple numbers could not be retrieved from Stortinget. In the name of the post-clock, you might say that SV had a point with his suggestion at that time. I look forward to the further discussion, and the Committee will have to come back to this in its position on the next year's government budget and the debate that follows.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1839	Let me first say a thousand thanks to my good colleague for so many pleasant words. It doesn't happen every time I'm in the pulpit – so I get to enjoy the times it happens. The Council of State has been very concerned that the clean-up process should take place in a proper manner. I fully agree with that, and it is the environmental authorities who are going to set the requirements for cleaning, as I said in my first post. I just wanted to repeat it to emphasize that I expect you to also go political in order to put on the absolutely highest standard, and show the way for how we're actually going to operate in vulnerable environments. Something more vulnerable than on Svalbard is hard to imagine. This debate has been a lot about Great Norwegian and the coal industry, which is now likely to be phased out. I have said, and I insist that the Labour Party will conclude in the budget debate, but there is nothing in this debate that suggests that we should land at a different position than we had when we went into the debate, that the time has now come to wind up the mining activity on Svalbard – in several steps, but primarily at Svea and Lunckefjell. The big question that remains is, where do we go now? What shall people live on, and what shall be the basis for the settlement of Svalbard in the future? There is a kind of question that is asked in many communities. There are some obvious things that point out. It's tourism, and it's travel. It is also obvious that research and education should play a very central role, both in UNIS and in the New Ålesund. The strategic location of Svalbard in the case of satellites in polar orbits is a highly developed business area. When you go from large satellites to new, smaller satellites, new business opportunities open up there. We already know that in the case of drones, as the Technology Council has proposed as a possible route of investment, Svalbard is well positioned, and we have facilities for it. Fishing, logistics and maritime activities also have great opportunities. The representative of Fagerås said two things that I very much agree with. One is that running scooter fun. I can notice that it's not that often a hearing SV people say it on the pulpit in Stortinget, but we can enjoy that. The other thing I agree very much with is that despite the fact that new things happen, and the government is trying to catch up, you're in the back. You're passive. If we're going to succeed in realising things, we have to start investing and spending money as well. Then we cannot postpone the port investment, as the government has done, then we cannot downgrade the status at the airport and thus put obstacles in the way of the tourism industry, and we must put in place high-capacity data communications in the northern regions also at high latitudes. I don't understand why the government didn't find 10 million. kr to build on UNIS, as the Workers' Party and several other lots have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1852	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1864	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e1873	The President proposed that the statement on important EU and EEA matters by the Minister for Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, held in Stortinget on 23 November 2017, be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e2054	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e2064	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e2073	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a model for the calculation of social security contributions to ensure that pensioners do not experience persistent negative purchasing power developments when the rest of society gains purchasing power, including an assessment of a floor that ensures that pensioners maintain purchasing power even this year with low wage growth.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e2099	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to file as soon as possible a change in the regulatory principles for current pensions from wage developments less than 0,75 pst. to the actual average of wage and price developments.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e2126	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e2154	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Atle Simonsen on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party proposal No 2, from Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1, from the Right and Advance Party, reads: ‘Document 8:11 S [[2017-2018]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e2188	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party are behind the vote and that the Green Party has also announced support for the vote. The Right and Advance Party are behind the proposal, and the Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e2202	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘As of 1 July 2018, the government requests that all recipients of pension benefits be given an optional right to receive the payment information on a rolling basis, per. post.’;» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e2219	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-30.ana.ud347e2265	So the things on today's map are done. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? This does not seem to be the case – and the meeting has been cancelled.
