ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e52	Honourable co-representatives! Former Wenche Bryn Lowzow is dead, 90 years old. Wenche Lowzow represented Oslo and Right for two periods at Stortinget, from 1977 to 1985. She was also an alternate from 1969 to 1977. Lowzow was appointed to the Judicial Committee for the first time and to the Church and Education Committee for the second time on the Stortinget. Wenche Lowzow had his professional background as a teacher at primary school. After being a teacher at Vålerenga School in 1955, she graduated from Hamar School of Education in 1958 and took English middle school at the University of Oslo in 1962. She worked as a teacher at Lakkegata School in Oslo from 1958 to 1969, and from 1965 to 1969 also as a teacher for Oslo Public School, and as a principal at Trosterud School in the same city from 1969 to 1977. In the years before she became a teacher, Wenche Lowzow was active in the forward movement, among others. as naval commander in Oslo circuit of the Norwegian Spederpike Federation from 1945 to 1956 and as circuit director from 1953 to 1956. It was perhaps her strong commitment to school issues that brought her into politics, first into Oslo School Board and in Oslo City Board for the Right from 1968 to 1975, of which four years in the Presidency, before she entered as elected representative of the Stortinget in 1977. She also held important positions in the Right in Oslo and nationally, as a member of the Højre Church State Committee from 1974 to 1976, a member of the Right Central Government and Labour Committee from 1974 to 1978, Chairman of the Grand-Oslo Højrekvinner from 1975 to 1977 and a member of the Oslo Højre Labour Committee from 1975 to 1981. Wenche Lowzow wrote history when in 1979 she, as the first staging representative, stood open as a homophile. Although she also engaged in a number of other areas, she probably remembers in particular because as a public person she ventured to stand up with her lay at a time when it was more controversial and untraditional than today. Prime Minister Erna Solberg wrote in his commemoration of Wenche Lowzow that today's diverse Norway, where each of us can live the life we're created, has grown up because strong people like Lowzow would go ahead and lead the way. By the fact that Wenche Lowzow in her mature age found the courage to break with the conform and stand out as she was, she helped to generalize homophilia. She also marked that the lay you were born with is a matter of pride, not of shame. We remember Wenche Lowzow for her work in the Storting and brighten the peace of her memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e84	When we expect to see the gallery well, the president suggests that we take a small derogation to get people in. I think it's going to get upset in the hall while we fill the gallery. The President asks the representatives not to leave their seats. The representative Knut Storberget, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternates, for Oppland County Day Helge Frøisland, and for Telemark County Hanne Thürmer, have taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e119	Our everyday life is shaped primarily by where we live, who we live and are surrounded by, and what we live by. Often, national policies only have an indirect impact on people’s daily lives. However, decisions in national policies also have a direct and concrete impact on local living conditions. The decision to have a wolf zone in Norway is an example of this. It has in some areas changed the way people live in a part of the country. It matters how people live, how the area is used for grazing, and how people use nature. If the way families have lived for generations is changed in a few years as a result of the intervention of the big society, it can be painful and conflictful. There are many strong feelings in the wolf debate. That's right, but it's also strong realities. This has been demonstrated by the debate of the last few weeks. Robbery policy has been dealt with several times in Stortinget. Today’s management takes place after taking the lead in the 2004 and 2011 wild game likes and Stortinget’s treatment of the Stortingen Storingsmeldingen Ulf in Norwegian nature in the spring of 2016. Every time there have been strong contradictions and great debate. Now the wolf population is clearly above the stock target set by Stortinget. This is something new. I have asked to explain to Stortinget the situation that has arisen since the predatory wildlife subjects opened for the first time in the autumn of 2016 for the licensing of wolves in the wolf zone. The predators opened to trap up to 32 wolves in four wolfevir in Hedmark. Three of these rifles are within the wolf zone. The wolf population was reported to be above the Storting population target in June 2016 and on the basis of stock level knowledge, it was possible to license wolves also within the wolf zone. These decisions were appealed to the Ministry of Climate and Environment. The Ministry’s handling of complaints must comply with the Norwegian law adopted by the Stortinget and the Berne Convention, to which the Stortinget has agreed to join Norway. In this specific case, the Ministry of Climate and Environment has assessed whether there is a basis for the licensing of up to 32 wolves in the wolf zone and Osdalsreviret, and concluded that the damage potential is not sufficiently likely. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food was of the opinion that the potential for damage was sufficient to permit killing. Based on the actual data and professional judgements provided to the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Legal Service concluded that there was no basis for establishing that the conditions attached to the harmful potential of grazing animals were met in the cases in question. The condition that there could be no satisfactory solutions other than bottling was also not met. In view of this, the Government found no alternative but to revise its decisions. We are thus in a difficult situation in the management of the wolf. We are above the stock target, but do not have any evidence to establish that the law's conditions for killing have been met. The law only permits killing when an adequate damage potential is likely and there are no satisfactory solutions other than killing. This is a situation with a strong human side. It affects the quality of life and the nutritional basis of many. I have a great understanding that the situation is going to be difficult, among other things. for farmers and landowners who fear loss of grazing animals and reduced hunting incomes, and not least for people living near wolves who fear nearby wolves. It is difficult for us who do not live in the wolf zone, to fully understand how the situation is experienced by many within the wolf zone. The government attaches great importance to the implementation of the Stortinge decision from the treatment of the forecasting notification of wolf in Norwegian nature. We are now working on solutions to ensure that the Storting's request decision, the law and our international obligations are as closely as possible. In the light of the decision of 20 December 2016, I found it natural to gather the conciliators at Stortinget to brief on the matter and discuss it. On 22 December last year I sent a letter inviting you to a meeting. The meeting was held on 4 January. The conciliators made it clear that they wanted to find solutions as soon as possible to implement the decision of the Stortinge from the wolf settlement. With this statement, I would like to give the Storting a thorough briefing on the background of the situation that has arisen and the measures that the government will take. In spring 2016, the government presented a big deal about the wolf in Norwegian nature. The government recommended a new stock target and a continuation of the wolf zone, with some adjustments. The size decided on 6 June last year to set the new stock target at four to six annual young coals, three of which will have to be whole Norwegian. A young coal in a frontier revir shall count as half a young coal. This was a slightly lower level than the government proposed, but is roughly a continuation of the previous stock target. In addition, the size continued a nationally determined wolf zone, with a slightly smaller geographical scope than in the government’s proposal. The management of wolves and other protected predators must take place within the legal framework established by the Storting. This is due to the consent of the Stortinget to Norway's accession to the Berne Convention in 1986 and the treatment by the Stortinget of the Natural Diversity Act in spring 2009. At the same time, management shall follow stock targets and the central principle of clear zone management. Zone management means that predatory game takes priority in some areas and grazing animals in others. In predatory areas, grazing industries must be adapted to predatory game through preventive measures and conversion. The target is the lowest possible loss of grazing animals. The aim has always been to minimise the damage potential, and the evidence we have suggests a very limited harmful potential for grazing animals in the wolf zone because traditional pasture grazing has been abandoned. The wolf report stated that the situation we are in now, where it is not permitted to trap wolves in the wolf zone, could arise. For example, on page 71, we read: the following: ‘There is currently a target for the management of the wolf population to be as close as possible to the nationally determined stock target. At the same time, wolves shall be managed within the framework of the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act, which, inter alia, lay down as a condition that killing may be permitted only where it is justified or is intended to prevent other serious damage to property. If, in the specific case, the damage potential of domestic animals is very limited or there is a satisfactory solution other than killing, situations could arise in which the wolf population is larger than the stock target while there will be no possibility of killing. This is particularly relevant for wolves in revir, since resuscitating wolves have a predictable land use. It is important to include this legal aspect in determining a stock target for wolves.» This possible issue is also described in the chapter of the Storing Communication, which discusses different types of stock targets. In the context of the review of the Communication, the issue was also raised in the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee on the Energy and Environment. The opinion states: «The stock management requirement also applies within sona and irrespective of the existence of harmful potential on domestic animals and domestic animals. The majority of the Committee would stress that the stock targets set by the Storting are the clear overall decision.’;» However, in the opinion of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, it was maintained that "the management of wolves shall be carried out within the framework of international commitments under the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act". In Norway, we have a regional management of large predators. Regional predators shall have the power to take decisions on the killing of predators when stocking targets are reached. Robbery data monitors wolves in Norway. The report last June showed that we had nine young coals of wolf in Norway, seven of which were whole Norwegian. It was therefore clear that the authority to take a licence decision was with the predators. The period of licensing of wolves is different within and outside the wolf zone. Outside the wolf zone, the licensing period is from 1 October to 31 March, while it is from 1 January to 15 February within the zone. Decisions of appeal shall be taken before the commencement of the killing period, that is to say at the end of September outside the zone and at the end of December within the zone. The predators of region 4, Eastfold, Oslo and Akershus, and region 5, Hedmark, jointly manage wolves in the wolf zone. The two regions took two decisions in June and September 2016 on the licensing of up to 37 wolves. Five of these are individuals of wolves outside the wolf zone. The remaining ones, up to 32 wolves, are from the wolves in Osdalen, Lagås, Kynna and Letjnna. The Osdalen lies largely outside the wolf zone, while the other three are inside. Together with decisions in other regions, this meant that the overall quota of licences for wolves in Norway was set at up to 47 wolves this winter. The Secretariat of the Explosives assessed the damage potential of the wolves within the wolf zone as limited. At the same time, they considered that the damage potential could not be eliminated completely, and that this provided legal grounds for opening up the fallout. In the case of Osdalsreviret, which is mainly located outside the wolf zone, the damage potential has not been further assessed by the predators in addition to a general description of damage outside the wolf zone. Both decisions on predators in regions 4 and 5 were appealed to the Ministry of Climate and Environment. We now have more wolves in Norway than ever in modern times. This creates concerns and concerns both in families and among entrepreneurs in the areas concerned. When we hear about wolves coming on the stairs to people, it's not hard to understand that there can be an insecurity feeling. Several have assumed that with more wolves within the zone there will be an increased risk of loss of grazing animals. It is an assumption I myself have been inclined to share – and it will be very important in the future to have an alert eye and an active monitoring of how the risk of damage will develop both inside and outside the wolf zone. So far, documented figures indicate that there is no direct link between the number of sheep taken by wolves and the evolution of the wolf population in Norway in the last five years. The number of sheep documented taken by wolves within the wolf zone was last year low, although the wolf population has increased. At the same time, the number of sheep was replaced as lost to the wolf at its lowest in 2016 compared to the last five years. According to the Technical Assessment of the Environment Directorate of 25 November, it is uncertain whether more family groups within the wolf zone will lead to an increase in the potential for damage in neighbouring areas in Norway. According to the Environmental Directorate and Rovdata, this is due to the fact that wolves born in Norwegian revir prefer to go east towards Sweden. Their assessment is that the management of wolves in Sweden has a greater potential to influence the loss situation in Norway than the stock development of wolves on the Norwegian side of the border. There is relatively little loss of livestock for wolves within the wolf zone. The reason for this is, among other things: that sheep graze on the fenced inland or outland and behind predatory fences, and that the sheep population has been closed in many places. The damage occurring within the wolf zone is mainly due to the fact that the wolf has entered fences that have had weaknesses or do not meet the applicable standards for predator-repellent fences. Also wolves from Helnorse territory in the wolf zone enter grazing areas outside the wolf zone and do damage. The situation in the Rendalen last year is an example of this, where a male wolf from a Helorian revir collided with a tispe from a border revir and took sheep. This poses a problem for both the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Climate and Environment in their assessments of the potential damage to the law department. However, the legislative department considers that there was no basis for the provision of preventive licensing of wolves in the wolf zone, since there is no likelihood or evidence of a sufficient potential for harm to grazing animals. However, these wolves have been killed following the determination of the trap damage. But the situation can change, and we will follow closely the evolution in the light of the fact that it has become more wolf. A report from NIBIO shows that injuries to grazing animals are mainly occurring outside the wolf zone, and especially in the periphery of this. The government will monitor developments more continuously. This is part of the background because we have now started radiolabelling of wolves in several wolves. Radiolabelling can also provide the opportunity to follow the wolf in real time and facilitate a more efficient take-off of wolves moving into grazing areas. The government's starting point was and is to follow up both the Storting's objectives and the Storting's demand for an administration in line with the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. These are The Storting's clear leads from the treatment of the wolf message. The Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention, as a condition for killing, provide that the survival of the population must not be threatened; secondly, that there must be a risk of damage to a certain extent and severity; and thirdly, that there are no other satisfactory solutions. In the examination of the complaint, a central question arose as to whether these conditions were fulfilled. It's clear that felling wouldn't threaten the survival of the population. It has, among other things, The Directorate-General for the Environment has established its professional advice on this matter. To illustrate the damage potential condition, I chose to obtain a professional assessment not only from my own department, but also from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. I also chose to present both of these assessments to the Department of Justice and Defence. The aim was to get a thorough legal assessment also outside the environmental management. The law department received a significant material on the matter. This included professional assessments by the departments of the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, with various assessments and different conclusions, the technical recommendations of the Directorate for the Environment and the two decisions of the pilot project, including those from the secretariat of the denominators. The conclusion of the legislative department is clear and is as follows: ‘The material placed at the disposal of the Legal Department does not provide a basis for establishing that the conditions for the killing of wolves are met in the cases in question. It is clearer as regards the conditions under Article 9 of the Berne Convention. It is not so clear in the case of the Nature Diversity Act § 18. However, any access to national law to permit killing does not, in any case, exempt Norway from the obligations under the Berne Convention under international law.» The Ministry also assessed whether bottling could be permitted for reasons other than damage to domestic animals and domestic animals. Both the impact of the wolf on hunting opportunities and the fear of humans for wolves have been assessed. It has been stressed that wolves go beyond the hunting rights of elk through, among other things. reduced elk stock, reduced income and more difficult hunting. The Ministry’s assessment has been that this cannot provide a basis for bottling. Reduced revenue from hunting rights is not relevant to the issue of breeding authorisation. In the case of human fear of wolves as a basis for killing, there must be general health and safety considerations under law. In any case, if wolves become close and act abnormally or undesirablely, they could be removed according to the rules on trapping. In view of this, the Ministry of Climate and Environment decided not to allow the fall in the licence of up to 32 wolves in the four wolves where the predators decided earlier last year to open the way for bottling. I could not make a decision as the responsible State Council that, after advice from the government's best legal competence on the issue of interpretation of the law, was considered to be contrary to Norwegian law and international obligations. It was a difficult decision, because it has great significance for many people, people who were prepared for a completely different decision, people who have lived with wolves in recent years, who have experienced this as a burden, and who had now looked forward to less wolves as a result of the wolf settlement of the Greatness and the decisions of the denominators. I understand that they are now angry and disappointed. Strong emotions and views are expressed from different quarters on the management of wolves. The lack of full consistency between the stock target and the legal basis for implementing it puts us in a difficult situation. It is not easy to meet people's real fears and statements about reduced quality of life with legal paragraphs and dry juice. Of course, it triggers reactions. I realize that. At the same time, I do not see that I could make a different decision in this case. If the government had followed the decisions of the robbers in this case, the likelihood is great that the decision would have been brought before the court, initially as a requirement for a provisional decision to prevent the hunting from taking place. With the documentation available in the case and with the assessment of the law department, there are many points of view that such a claim would be made. In any case, with such an outcome, it could not have been opened for licensing this winter. There have been questions at the time of my decision in this case. I will comment first on the timing and then the content of the decision on killing within the wolf zone. The Ministry of Climate and Environment’s complaint decisions in this case were in place on 27 September and 20 December 2016. The decisions were therefore taken four and twelve days before the start of the licensing period outside and within the wolf zone, respectively. This is in accordance with adopted guidelines on the handling of such complaints. When a predator takes a single decision, there is a three-week notice of complaint. This is the result of the Administrative Act. After the time limit for appeal, the first instance shall itself assess and deal with the appeal before it is sent to the Board of Appeal, in this case the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Intervention at an earlier date would be to rock the ordinary administrative complaint system. It was only when we dealt with the complaint that we noticed that the predators had a different interpretation of the claim for damage potential than the Ministry of Climate and Environment thought was correct. In this situation, it was important for me to obtain assessments from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and to present to both departments the assessments of the law department. Let me also mention that several times there have been permits for killing and hunting of both wolves, bears and gloats, although the populations have been clear below the stock target. There is then a significant risk of damage to domestic animals and domestic animals. Now the situation is reversed: we are above the target population, but killing cannot be allowed because there is insufficient evidence of a risk of harm to grazing animals. Following my decision, the Supreme Administrative Court in Sweden has passed a judgment that maintains licence hunting decisions in 2016 of up to 26 wolves in Värmland. The judgment is based on Swedish legislation and the EU Species and Habitats Directives. The EU is a member of the Berne Convention and the Habitats Directive represents the implementation by EU countries of the Berne Convention. It is not EEA-relevant and is therefore not incorporated into Norwegian law. However, EU Member States constitute a majority of the Contracting Parties to the Berne Convention and their interpretation and application are therefore of interest. The EU Directive does not fully comply with the Berne Convention. Article 2 of the Berne Convention states, inter alia: economic and recreational conditions are relevant considerations for taking into account predatory game management. The EU Directive mentions in Article 2 that social needs and regional and local specificities are also relevant. Here, the EU Directive adds new considerations to the Berne Convention. The grounds for the hunting itself are set out in Article 16(1)(e) of the Directive, which complies with a corresponding provision of the Berne Convention, Article 9. The provision allows a limited take-off of wild animals and has a fairly open design as to what may be the purpose of the take-off. The Berne Convention specifies that a small number of animals must be involved. On the other hand, the EU Directive requires that hunting does not make it difficult to maintain a ‘good conservation status’. This means that in the long term, the species will remain a vital part of its life environment. This is expected to involve a more stringent obligation to preserve endangered species such as: wolves other than those referred to in the Berne Convention. Both the Berne Convention and the Directive also provide for the absence of other satisfactory solutions. The Swedish wolf judgment is not directly transferable to Norway. However, we are going through the judgment in a thorough manner to see if it can provide us with new information on the relationship between the Berne Convention and the Natural Diversity Act. The home meal in which the Swedish Court of Justice anchors its decision is largely taken from the Berne Convention and is also part of the Habitats Directive. But it is not included in the Nature Diversity Act. This applies to that part of the provision of Article 9 of the Berne Convention which reads ‘to permit, in strictly controlled forms, on a selective and limited basis, the capture, storage and other discretionary use of certain wild animals and plants in a small number’. It has therefore not been incorporated into the Nature Diversity Act. The stock conditions on which the Swedish judgment is based are, moreover, quite different from those of Norwegian countries. Although there was no licensing in four wolves, we trap wolves in Norway. It was opened in 2016 for the licensing of up to 15 wolves. This quota applies to wolves in priority grazing areas where wolves can damage domestic animals and domestic animals. The quota for the licensing of wolves in priority grazing areas in regions 4 and 5 was filled on Thursday last week. Following an application from the grazing industry, the Environment Directorate yesterday authorised the withdrawal of three additional wolves outside the wolf zone. In addition, permits are granted for the killing of wolves both before, during and after the grazing season. In Rendalen, for example, it was. tracked up a wolf couple in an area with severe damage to grazing animals during the summer. These were taken out of the State's NSCS on 2 December 2016. A total of 15 dead wolves were registered in Norway in 2016. So far this year is another wolf field, as of 13 January 2017. Management will be ready in the coming months to rapidly extract wolves if wolves represent a risk of losses in grazing priority areas. The Government will consider changes that may result in more effective hunting in these cases. The government attaches great importance to the implementation of the Stortinge decision from the treatment of the forecasting notification of wolf in Norwegian nature. We are therefore working along several lines to find solutions that ensure that the Storting's request decision, the law and our international obligations are as closely as possible. I have now started a work aimed at making the Berne Convention rules better reflected in the Natural Diversity Act and its practice. The Berne Convention Article 2 and the fifth indent of Article 9 (1) are not fully reflected in the Nature Diversity Act. The Government will consider amendments here to ensure that the Law on Natural Diversity and its practice are in line with the Berne Convention. Such a change could result in increased administrative flexibility and a somewhat broader legal basis for the extraction of wolves, although it must be emphasised that the Berne Convention framework is strict. In this context, the Government assesses the Swedish Supreme Court ruling on the licensing of wolves and the EU Species and Habitats Directive. The government will come back to Stortinget with a case as soon as this work is completed, and in time for the Stortinget to deal with the matter before the end of this session. At the same time, we have launched the following actions: We will present to the Ministry of Justice and Defence the question of whether the Law on Nature Diversity can provide a basis for killing in this case because of the wolf's negative effect on hunting rights. This issue was assessed by the Ministry in the context of the review process. The Ministry then found that the law did not allow for killing on this basis. We shall have a low threshold and a high level of preparedness to trap wolves when they come close to pastures and present an adequate risk of damage to grazing animals. This also applies before the grazing season. We're going to consider further lowering the threshold for the felling of wolves in grazing priority areas. We also need to have a low threshold to trap wolves if it shows unwanted behavior in the vicinity of people. I have asked the Environment Directorate for a professional assessment of whether there has been any change in the behaviour of the wolf: whether it has become more close and less popular, and whether this could lead to a greater risk to people. We strengthen the staffing of local predatory wildlife contacts by the State Department of Nature to ensure that they arrive quickly when there may be a risk of harm or undesirable behaviour. State monitoring work in the wolf zone has been strengthened as of this year, with both increased crew and increased resources. We need to systematically monitor and document if several wolves mean a change in damage potential both inside and outside the wolf zone. We started last week working on radiolabelling the wolf in the most possible wolfevir in the wolf zone. The aim is to see whether increased knowledge of the wolf’s potential for harm can allow for licensing. In addition, the labelling may provide a better basis for assessing the proximity of the wolf and, for example, its proximity. takes up residence in built-up areas. We are also in the process of exploring possible financial compensation schemes for losses of any rights or other burdens within the wolf zone. This is what we intend to return to in the revised national budget 2017. In addition, we are investigating possible schemes for funds for municipalities with young people in the wolf zone. This too we will come back to in the revised national budget 2017. The Directorate-General for the Environment has been entrusted with the task of finding out whether it is professionally sound to allow equal hunting time within and outside the wolf zone. We are in the process of preparing a new independent investigation into the genetic origin of the wolf tribe in Norway. The Directorate-General for the Environment will draw up a proposal for a tender and implement a call for tenders for the mission. In addition, we have asked the Environment Directorate to cooperate with Norway's Hunter and Fishery Associations to develop information and guidance on the management of elk populations in breeding areas for wolves. Hunters and rightholders can to some extent compensate for the presence of wolves by changing the hunting strategy, so that the hunting activity is not reduced to the same extent. It is set out by its own resources for Norway's Hunter and Fischer Association in 2017 for this work. We have commissioned the Environment Directorate to address the need for any training of a smaller number of track dogs that can be used in the felling of wolves. The response to this assignment will be available during the first quarter. We have also commissioned the Environment Directorate to produce a report on the experience of the use of loose, on driven neck dog in Sweden this winter. The answer to this assignment will be available during the spring. The current measures taken by the government aim to reduce the uncertainty that many people feel. That's why we want to monitor the wolf's behavior more closely. We will also mitigate the level of conflict. That is why we want to fill in the legal framework where the possibilities of the Berne Convention today are not fully complied with in Norwegian law. In this demanding situation, it is important to find good roads further, on the basis of the Storting’s decision on stock targets, the Norwegian law and the international agreements to which Norway has acceded. This is the starting point for the matter with which the government will come to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e290	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Climate and Environment on the management of the wolf be dealt with at a later meeting in the United Kingdom. Are there any other suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e295	This case has become very special, and eventually it has also become very principled. It has been six months since Stortinget made its decision, until, for the first time, we are formally informed in Stortinget that the decision taken by Stortinget in June is not feasible. Against this background, the Workers' Party would primarily ask that the statement be submitted to committee and that we go into the depths of the presentation. But based on the round we've had, and the conversation with the other parties, I have the understanding that most people want to get the presentation processed quickly, in their own meeting. That's why the Working Party can also end up doing that. But there was a need to give this explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e300	There is an urgent need to discuss this matter, not least if a purely practical approach is to make changes in management and procurement already this winter. The centre party is therefore open to a debate in line with Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure § 45(b), i.e. the presentation is put to debate in a later meeting. However, we would like to make it clear that it does not, by sea, exclude both proposals and subsequent comitology on changes in the law, so that the will and decision of the Storting in this matter can actually be implemented. We therefore see no contradiction between having a separate debate on the presentation and also having a committee discussion at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e305	The President's proposal on the procedure is very lukewarm, simply because if the Storting is to maintain its topicality, when the debate actually goes out there, it is important that we get this matter dealt with as soon as possible. This is about having the matter discussed in full. Governments have presented both a number of measures and the background to how things have been done, and the Storting must act on that basis. We look forward to getting the matter up as quickly as it is practically possible, to get this in place. Then, of course, the Storting has the opportunity at all times to promote the proposals that Stortinget might want – as well in these matters as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e310	I agree with the proposed procedure, but I also stress that the presentation should be put to debate as soon as possible. Now we are aware that the Stortinget has no meeting next week, but as soon as possible we need to get this presentation to debate. I am also pleased that the Council of State has now announced that there will be a case of its own. Of course, I am aware that the Stortinge on its own initiative can promote its own affairs at any time, but it is important now that the Stortinge's will is carried out – then on a professional and legal basis, and that is why we are waiting for a case of our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e315	I thank you for the presentation. I support, from the SV's point of view, the proposal that this should be discussed later, but at the same time I would draw attention to the fact that it was made clear from the Minister already during the examination of the matter, on questions from the SV, that it was doubtful whether the scheme for which the bulk of the population voted would be in line with the Berne Convention. Those who followed the debate that was going on in the hall, too, clearly realized that putting on the lower goal of the tension... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e320	This is not about the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e325	Well, that was for the Labour Party's reason to go in for what they did, so I just want to draw attention to these points. I look forward to that debate, and I am glad that SV – at least in this situation – has stood up for the government, if not the government parties themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e330	I am sure that it gives the representative Holmås some satisfaction to be able to stand up for the government when there is occasion for that. Otherwise, we thank you for the presentation. Maybe I'll add that there was also some procedure in that statement, but we'll deal with what's going on, and look forward to the debate, and then we'll see if there'll be proposals later. However, I have also observed that there is a case of my own, and this suggests that the government has understood that it requires more than a statement to help the Stortinge decision to be fulfilled in some way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e338	I would like to support the President's proposal that the matter be debated at a later meeting. I am also pleased with both the statement and that the Council of State warns that there is a matter for the Committee that looks at both the situation we are in, the decision that is in the Storting, and how this should be kept within the framework of both the Nature Diversity Act and the international obligations that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e343	I would like to thank you for your statement, which makes it clear in a good way the relationship between a stock target and a legal basis. I support the proposal for the treatment procedure and look forward to a proposal from the government, which I hope will continue the consistent line that the government has maintained in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e348	In that case, no objections have been raised to the President’s proposal that the matter be referred to a later meeting, and it is deemed to be adopted. Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e366	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e373	I want to start by thanking the committee. There has been good work on the matter, it is a unanimous setting, and that is why we should thank you. What we are now receiving is a necessary update and, at the same time, an adaptation to the EU Alternative Dispute Resolution Directive. It is good consumer policy to facilitate good access to efficient and fair resolution of consumer disputes. This is because court proceedings can be costly and resource-intensive, and often these matters deal with very small amounts. Good solutions outside the legal system can prevent conflicts and provide more efficient and reasonable solutions for the consumer. The Committee has also, as everyone has noticed, proposed some technical and linguistic adjustments to the text and the legal title, stressing that these adjustments do not involve any legal changes. With today's treatment, we also achieve that the Consumer Dispute Committee is included in the list of European consumer complaints bodies, which is also a necessary upgrade and adaptation to the best interests of the consumer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e382	It is not intended to extend the debate in the case, but it is an important matter that the Storting now decides, law on the Consumer Complaints Committee. The Consumer Complaints Committee decides on matters in which the conciliation of the Consumer Council between a consumer and a trader has not led to an agreement. This may be the purchase of goods, craft services or the right of withdrawal. It is important that this bill be seen in the context of the Consumer Complaint Body Act, which came into force last summer. The legislative proposal will also help consumers to have a quick and inexpensive decision in a complaint case without having to go to the courts. The offer must be of good quality so that consumers can feel safe and sound in the case. The problem is not only important for the individual consumer, it is also important for traders, who get feedback on what might not be good enough, and it is positive that the case is resolved quickly and fairly for both parties. We have today a good complaint offer, but this bill makes the offer even better. Among other things, the Consumer Complaint Board will now be able to deal with issues where the issue concerns many consumers or where there is a particular need for rapid clarification. The legislative proposal will also call for faster procedures and better information for the parties involved in the process. As I said at the outset, it is important that this bill be seen in the context of the Consumer Complaint Body Act, which came into force last summer. Together, these laws will provide a good low threshold for consumers, who will then face complaints outside the courts. Let me give you an example. Let's say a consumer bought a concert ticket. The concert is canceled, but the organizer won't refund the ticket. After recently being given the opportunity to negotiate in new service areas such as concerts, the Consumer Council can reach a conciliation process between the consumer and the organiser. However, if the Consumer Council's mediation fails to resolve the matter between the consumer and the concert organiser, the Consumer Council can now also promote it as a matter for the Consumer Complaints Committee. In that case, the Consumer Complaint Board may give a binding decision on the matter and that decision may affect many other consumers in the same situation. If a similar case arises in conciliation within the Consumer Council, the Council may refer to the decision of the Consumer Complaint Board in its mediation. For most of us, it is demanding to go to the courts on a case. Consumers often deal with smaller amounts of money, and court proceedings will be disproportionately time consuming and costly. Therefore, it is important that a person has good low-threshold offers, where the consumer is given reasonable or free treatment to his complaint. A good out-of-court complaint handling service contributes to a high level of resources for society and individual consumers. The legislative proposal also contributes to a more effective complaint offer for the consumer. There is now a requirement that the Consumer Complaints Committee should deal with the matter within 90 days. It is important that the consumer and the trader are informed of the location of the case at all times. This is why the legislative proposal now proposes that both parties be better informed in the process. I am pleased that it is a unanimous committee that subscribes to this proposal. Today’s consumer complaints offer is of good quality. The proposal for a new law will further strengthen the position of consumers, and it will be positive for traders, who will receive better information in the process, while at the same time contributing to a well-functioning market and savings for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e401	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e417	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e426	As rapporteur for the case, Mr Jørgen Bekkevold, I will present the position of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture on the matter and say a little about the particular points of view and proposals of the Christian People's Party. Proposalers believe that there is a need to establish a national centre of expertise for youth work, youth participation and youth information. The Centre addresses challenges and needs among municipalities and county councils in Norway. The aim of such a centre of expertise is to develop, coordinate and make available knowledge, competence and methods throughout the country. The following document 8 proposals were made in the case: ‘The government is asked to start work with a view to establishing a national centre of expertise for youth work, youth participation and youth information, and to submit a case to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ In its reply letter to the Committee, the Council of State refers primarily to the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family, Buffdir, as an alternative to the proposals made by the proposers for the establishment of a new national centre of competence. The Council of State considers that further development of Bufdir as a trade union directorate will involve the further development of a national environment of competence for child and youth work, the participation of children and young people and youth information. In the configuration, the Right and Advance Party, as the Council of State, point out that further development of Bufdir as a trade director will involve the further development of a national competence environment for child and youth work, participation of children and young people and youth information work. The Workers’ Party and the Christian People’s Party show in their attitude that everyone participating in the Committee’s consultation was in favour of the proposal to create a national centre of expertise for youth work, youth participation and youth information. Reference is made here to both the Children’s Ombudsman, the National Council of Norwegian Children’s and Youth Organisations, LNU, Youth and Leisure, the Children’s and Youth Organisations in Oslo, UngOrg, Press and Redd Barna. It points to, among others: that Saved Barna believes that a centre of expertise must maintain the competence, information and participation of children and young people — not just young people. The Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party believe that these are good arguments for the creation of a new centre of competence. Such a centre shall be independent and located outside the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family. We therefore support this proposal in the vote: ‘The government is asking for the organisation of, and mandate for, a national centre of competence for child labour, participation and information, and to assess the possibility of establishing such a centre of expertise. The majority asks the government to file a case for the Storting in an appropriate manner.» The Christian People's Party therefore believes that there are good reasons to determine how such a centre for both child and youth work can be established, and we therefore address this proposal, which the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have promoted in this matter, to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e447	The representative Hanne Thürmer has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e452	Norway is one of the most democratic countries in the world – that is good. There is the result of long-term work for minor differences between people and not least gender balance. Fighting for the equal value of all people in a country is a clear political goal for the Workers' Party. But that's the way we have a lot to go on. Children and young people's right to participate in all matters that deal with them is perhaps just one of the areas in which we have the most to go. No one disagrees that children and young people should be involved, but adults often lack knowledge and self-confidence about how to start systematic work that ensures this. Unfortunately, the municipality of Rogaland is one of the municipalities that have worked well systematically since the 1980s with the influence of young people in absolutely everything the municipality does about children and youth. When planning a new secondary school, it is invited for consultation and the young represent different views attached as a consultation. The proposal we are debating today and voting on will show whether we are capable of taking children and young people seriously. It is important that we in the future increase the quality of youth work, increase the competence of youth workers across the country and coordinate the fields of youth work, youth information and youth participation in a simple way. All the hearing bodies have been positive to a low-threshold centre, which should be easily contacted and which contributes to the enhancement of competence. I stress that it is essential that the centre does not become part of Bufdir, as the government suggests, just to make it easy to get in touch with and not least to be contacted by – i.e. a low-threshold offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e465	This is a matter where all parties agree on the intention, but where we do not fully agree on how the goal is to be achieved. Children and young people's rights and the right to be heard in matters relating to them are enshrined in law and are important for all the parties in this Chamber. Nevertheless, we have all heard the stories of children and young people's municipal governments, which are only a sand-spraying body, where children and young people are not allowed to take part in matters on their own premises or are not allowed to participate in them at all. In my period of rapporteur I was so lucky to have a driving skilled coordinator, who taught me a lot about how to engage children and young people, but unfortunately not all are as lucky to have an Annica, as we had. We therefore agree that it is right to pool skills on how children and young people are best achieved, but we do not agree that we should set up a new centre. We support the Government's response, which refers primarily to the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate as an alternative to the establishment of a new national centre of expertise. The Council of State believes that the further development of Bufdir as a trade union directorate will involve the further development of a national environment of competence for child and youth work and the participation of children and young people and youth information work. It is also appropriate to consider whether Bufdir can develop more than at present structures in which exchange of experience and networking can strengthen the work done in each municipality. The aim must be for all children and young people, regardless of their background, to have good reproductive and living conditions. Security and care in the family and community, good services and public and voluntary services are at the heart of Right’s policy. Children and young people shall have opportunities to develop, participate and participate on their own premises in society. In its response, the Council of State supports the need to strengthen work on youth skills, quality and accessibility. Bufdir has been commissioned by the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality to follow-up in several areas. We share this support for the need to strengthen the work. We believe that this is a good solution, but we have also seen the hearing opinions, and we will of course follow the matter carefully to see if this provides a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e480	Children and young people's right to participation, influence and information are key values in our society and contribute to better decision-making and the building of democracy. The rights of children in Norway today are enshrined in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and in the Constitution, and Norway is a leading country here. The government has ambitions in the field of youth policy, and I am pleased that the need for stronger national coordination of youth work, youth participation and youth information is lifted by the proposers. There is a lot of knowledge about children and the rights of young people, and there is a lot of good work done. I want to pay tribute to actors such as Youth and Leisure, LNU, Young People with Disabilities, Forum for the Youth Information Office in Norway, Youth Culture House Tvibit in Tromsø, Redd Barna and UNICEF for their work. I also want to highlight the Change Factory, which facilitates the dissemination of experience to young people in the field of child protection and health care. In addition, the County of Tromsø with the project «Sjumilssteget» has helped to help municipalities across the country to use the Children’s Convention in their day-to-day work. In spite of this, it is a challenge that competence is spread and that there are differences in the quality and arrangements of the provision of children and young people. To meet this challenge, there is a need to further develop and strengthen the competences already existing in the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family. Bufdir is a national professional body in the field of childhood and youth work. They reach all municipalities through regional offices and cooperate with county offices. Thus, a solid structure is already in place, which can ensure youth work on a national basis and provide an equivalent range of services. The tasks of Bufdir provide a natural basis for an overall environment of competence in the youth field. Today, Bufdir supports the promotion of youth work through the Erasmus+ programme. This is done in close cooperation with, inter alia: Youth and Leisure, which have a high level of competence in performing youth work. The management of grant schemes such as Children’s and Youth Action in Greater Urban Communities, the Child Poverty Funds and the Losing Function provide the Directorate with a unique overview of activities and good responses in both small and large municipalities. Grants constitute strong instruments to increase the quality of youth work locally. Bufdir also manages the website Growth Status, with statistics and facts about children and young people in many fields. Bufdir also participates in national and international research cooperation. Thus, the Directorate has both tools and access to a wide range of data from the youth field, which can be used and disseminated in new ways. Bufdir is currently responsible for the follow-up of municipal councils for people with disabilities. If the legislative proposal on changes to the municipal law is adopted, the corresponding follow-up to the operation of municipal youth councils will be in the Directorate. It is important for me to stress that youth participation is wider than youth councils in municipalities. Children and young people must be consulted in all processes relating to them. This aspect has recently been reinforced in child protection and through the law on children and parents managed by Bufdir. Youth participation and access to good information are interrelated. Young people have the right to information, so that they are able to make their own assessments. I believe that a competence environment for youth information could help many municipalities to make services more accessible to young people. Young people are a success. More than one million visitors each month in 2016 show that the demand for reliable information for young people is high. There is concern that the directorate may be bureaucratic and distant from the users. The distance to the field I think poses a risk regardless of location. A national environment could be difficult to practice in all aspects of this mission. It will therefore be an important task for Bufdir to develop a close and lively dialogue with all those active in the field of children’s and youth’s rights, and to look at the forms of work that make the competence available to those who need it. This will include, inter alia: further develop structures for exchange of experience and networking in order to strengthen the work done locally. Facilitating the inclusion of children and young people at all levels contributes to the strengthening of democracy. This important work is carried out in public, both local and central, organisations and research communities and should be coordinated by the Ministry responsible for policies in the field of children and young people. It involves further developing Bufdir into a national competence environment for child labour, participation and information.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e512	After growing up and a youth in voluntary organisations and in the youth council, I have to say that this is a theme that I personally am very busy with. Not least as a former youth party leader, I would like to say that the possibility for young people to have a special influence on political processes is of course something we can say that we are good at in Norway – but there is no reason to get too hard on the chest either. I have seen too many examples of local environment, municipalities and county municipalities where young people are not taken sufficiently seriously, even though they may have formal bodies and possibilities to say what they are called. So I want to commend the proposers for a very important initiative. Now the left is not in the committee, but I take the floor to make an explanation of vote, as we will support the vote and vote against the proposal of the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party. It's not because we don't think this is a good initiative, but we're not overconfident that the proposed solution with a national competence center is the best way forward. I want to say that the question is raised, and that it has received so much support in the hearing, above all, is a great challenge for those who care for many of the functions today, not least Bufdir. As the government does, we also work hard to see why this is not a task that belongs mostly to the home of Bufdir. I can't quite see that creating a dedicated centre – which I perceive is something that a desire should be organized under the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation in some way – should provide better answers than those we get today. Of course, all national agencies and organisations can be perceived as bureaucratic. It is probably a challenge for these institutions and agencies first and foremost, but creating new ones does not necessarily give less bureaucracy. Fortunately, we also have other institutions, voluntary organizations, etc. doing an amazingly important job. I would particularly like to draw out LNU, which, of course, does its daily work, but also as for example. Through the last election campaigns, it is unlikely that young people will be important to be mobilised to vote, to go out with information on democratic participation, and they have not least been strong drivers of the trial projects with 16-year-olds' voting rights. It's a very important organization when it comes to what we're talking about here. In any case, the Left here and now are not overstated that the proposal presented is the solution to the question being asked. But the question is very good and very important, and I think that the Council of State says that one should strengthen the effort through Bufdir, are words that should be followed up with resolute and clear action, because we still have a long way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e523	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e528	Today, young people have no formal national influence other than engaging in party politics. This issue has been addressed in the past, for example: with the test project Youth’s Greatness, but it did not function optimally, including: due to different expectations from the Storting and participating youth. The consultations in this case show that there is a clear need and desire for national coordination of youth work and influence. Everyone supports our solution. For example, the need for a national competence service is highlighted in research, and closely related to participation. In the fields of policy youth participation, project-based youth participation and youth work in the form of open leisure activities and youth information, we see challenges and needs that go back across disciplines. These needs are the empowerment, coordination and coordination, knowledge development, networks and quality assurance of the offer and the work done. In most municipalities, there are already regional bodies for youth participation, but there are variations in how well they function and in what kind of influence they actually have. A national centre of excellence will help both these and municipal councils, and will best find the place they deserve in the social debate. These county participation bodies have also taken the initiative to establish a national youth participation body, which shall provide national influence through a formal, participatively independent body. This will ensure that young people have the same democratic influence as other demographic groups. For example, the senior group has: has been able to influence nationally through the National Senior Council, which has been an advisory body since 1970. The 2012 Tvibit National Centre of Competence study concluded that young people should also have such a national participation body and thus have the same opportunity to comment on national issues relevant to them as a group. The younger people who engage also do not have the right to vote, and then it becomes all the more relevant to find other ways to be heard. I agree with the proposers that the need is not to strengthen Bufdir, but rather to establish an independent, low-threshold centre of competence, so that it is easy to contact municipalities, counties, organisations and individuals. It will be important to increase the quality of youth work, increase the competence of youth workers across the country and contribute to better coordination of youth work, youth information and youth participation. If I may add in conclusion, of course, it is a paradox that the Progress Party would rather strengthen a directorate than be close by establishing its own centre for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e541	I would like to thank you for a good initiative and a good intention, which I feel is behind the proposal put forward by representatives from the SV and the Workers' Party. It's like there's a lot of people on different levels who have this problem today. That's probably why the most important thing is to ask for a coordinating unit in relation to this. Here one can agree with the intention, the challenge is where to put it, and how to organise it. I would like, as a previous speaker also said, to give honor to, for example. LNU, which I think has been a very active and good actor to children's and youth organisations, so that they can do their job the best they can. The fact that we have now also strengthened them in the budget negotiations is very good, because they have an important task, and they will have some sort of coordinating function here. Children and young people and their participation, opportunities and commitment are important. I can tell from my time as rapporteur that it might have been, I have to admit, the meetings of children and young people's municipal government that were often the most constructive, where one saw the practical solutions, where one would find solutions and had great respect for the challenges surrounding the solutions. Sometimes I had to remind the local council that they might attack matters in the same way that the local government of children and young people did. There's a lot of good engagement around. We support our intention and will perhaps pass on a challenge to the Council of States: how can we coordinate and not least perhaps share successes and learn from each other without becoming too strong a coordinating function? Because maybe some of what I'd be most concerned about is if we start coordinating it so strongly that everyone should do it the same. This lives differently in different municipalities in different parts of the country, and that's good. It is in this way that we really give young people the opportunity and freedom to contribute themselves to developing their situation and their everyday lives and how they will actively participate in the debates. We want to challenge the Council of State to continue working with the organisations we are dealing with in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e555	Now, the Centre Party is not in the Committee, and sometimes it is a little bit of a waste of time between us who are responsible for sharing in the field of matters within this Committee. We are going to support the proposal in the position of the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party today, and I shall briefly do the right thing. We also very much agree on the issue on which the proposal for a representative is based, namely that more needs to be done to strengthen youth work and youth participation in the big society and to facilitate the development of democracy. The concrete proposal is to create a national centre of expertise to improve the quality of work, increase the skills of youth workers across the country and contribute to better coordination of professional youth work, youth information and youth participation. I understand that the discussion between the government and the government party and the proposers is whether this should be done through Bufdir or through a national competence centre. I am of the very clear opinion that this is best done through a competence centre. I am on the Health and Care Committee as a permanent member, and in the health field, a national competence centre has too much. I can briefly note that one has a centre of expertise in medical medicine, for aging and health and age, for breast-feeding, for ADHD, for personality psychiatry and psychosocial diseases, for sleep disorders, for MS, for culture, health and care, and for rare diagnosis. And so here we're not going to be able to have a national centre of competence for youth and youth work. There's no room at home. I fear that this signals that the Storting doesn't take on the serious needs of children and young people and what we can do to strengthen their involvement in society. Of course, it's quite natural to have a centre of expertise. Governments write: ‘In the opinion of the Council of State, it should be assessed whether Bufdir can develop more than at present structures in which exchange of experience and networking can strengthen the work done in each municipality.’» The bureaucratic language that at least doesn't overestimate me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e575	There is a need to strengthen young people’s participation and youth work in order to enhance the skills and quality of both organisations, municipalities and municipalities. It is no exaggeration to say that there is a great variation in how and how well you do youth work around Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities. Some places it's very good. Porcelain is one example. Another example is Tromsø. I am pleased to see that the Minister of Culture has come back from the amazing experience she has probably had at the Tromsø International Film Festival – Norway's best film festival. There is also an example of good youth work in Tromsø and the competence environment in Tvibit, among others. have contributed to the emergence of the proposal for a centre of excellence that we are discussing today. Today, there is a major shortage that there is not a proper national professional environment working with children and young people and with youth work. In the hearing of the Family and Culture Committee, it was found that the establishment of such a centre of competence was a great deal of agreement. What is particularly interesting is that those who work densely with youth participation were strong for it – such as Redd Barna, The Children's Ombudsman, LNU, UngOrg and Press. In the Council's letter of reply, I think it is quite clear from what she is writing that it does not really meet what you are asking for when you want to set up such a centre of expertise. With regard to the proposal to rather add these functions to Bufdir, I would like briefly to say that I think that is a bad suggestion. Bufdir does not work directly with youth today. Bufdir is primarily case handlers, and when they are going to have contact with young people around the country, they use local contacts around the municipalities. They don't work directly with young people themselves. They must have some sort of order function, among others. to those environments that are competent today. This can be done both simpler, more unbureaucratic and directly targeted at young people if a dedicated centre of expertise is given responsibility. There is no need to lie in Oslo; there may be more places in the country – a centre of expertise that is close, with practical experience in the field, which can share good practices, which can make sure of what quality is, to municipalities, county councils and organisations and not just to be a coordinating entity, as the representative Harberg said. I think it is a pity that the government parties and the Left do not choose to support this proposal, which I believe would have considerably strengthened the participation of children and young people and the youth work in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e594	Let it be clear that the participation of children and the right of children to participate in all parts of the subject area that relate to them are important. We all agree with the intention of this proposal. But when it's said that today's youth has no opportunity to influence nationally, I think it's a direct mistake. All the departments and the political parties, but especially the departments and the political management there, have regular meetings with all the organisations in this field. I myself have annual meetings with all the county youth councils. We have annual meetings with all the youth organisations, where they address issues that are important in their fields. The influence of children is shown by the work done by the Change Factory, which has changed the entire law, where it is now clearly stated that children have the right to participate. We must not forget that the main work of children and young people takes place outside the municipalities, and eight out of ten municipalities have their own child councils and youth councils. I believe that a good municipality, which has a good management that has put children and youth growth on the agenda, also contributes to bringing children and young people into its important decisions. The adoption of the Youth Council Act will lead to the involvement of children and young people in municipal work. I cannot see that a national competence centre can help to be a low-threshold service in these municipalities. I have visited so many municipalities that have good child and youth work. It is an important work for the future of youth. Today, it is a vocational directorate for child labour and youth work. They have structures, they have cooperation with regional offices, and they also have cooperation with municipalities. They shall be involved in the exchange of experience and research in order to provide guidance and advice to municipalities that wish to strengthen this work. I said both in my letter to the Committee and from the Chair that we could be better at this work. I'm taking the challenge from the committee leader. We need to look at how we can further develop the already existing structures we have, instead of building up a new structure. However, it is important that all municipalities place child and youth work on the agenda and invite with the children’s and youth organisations in their municipalities and counties to develop a good breeding environment for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e607	We have a historic opportunity today. We have an opportunity to stand up and establish a national centre of expertise. We have a historic opportunity to say to all those who do youth work across the country: we see you, we are on the team, we want to strengthen the important job you do – because it is an important job that is done, with youth work, youth participation and youth information. We often talk in political debates about youth vulnerability, but too rarely about youth strengths. We had the opportunity to do so today and to give young people a new strength and a renewed strength through a national centre of competence for the youth environment. Youth is often clapped to the head and told that you are the future. I want to say to the youth: Yes, you are the future, but you will be allowed to be here and now. Youth must be allowed to shape its everyday life with the opportunities that exist to do so. Youth must define its own youth culture. Now, in the SV's view, we're about to throw the opportunity away. We know the investigation is done. We know that the youth community, the Children's Ombudsman, the people who are meaningful in the field, have said their own. We know what kind of model they want. And we know what's the difference between working in an environment and distance from an environment. However, in line with the government's strategy and priorities, the choice is therefore to strengthen bureaucracy rather than to establish a real centre of competence for young people. Just as you do when it comes to fishing, you think it's better to have the fishing office wall on the wall with university instead of having it close to sea boots, fishing lodges and people who know what fishing is like in their everyday lives. Now you choose – instead of establishing something entirely of your own, something that young people should have shaped themselves, which is the nerve of a centre of expertise – to strengthen bureaucracy. It follows up on the government's only employment strategy, namely to get the bureaucracy in Oslo out. It seems to me to be throwing away an historic opportunity to strengthen youth work and youth participation through a centre of expertise.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e618	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e634	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who would have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e649	This proposal for a representative proposes that the government should make proposals on the law on media responsibility. I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation, and I am very pleased that we have reached an agreement on this subject and that the Committee is unanimous. We've said it many times, and we're probably going to say it many more times: the reality of today's media is in a very rapid and continuous change. One of the changes that happen is that content is becoming increasingly user-generated, and another is that the diversity of platforms is constantly increasing. The total media landscape is becoming increasingly fragmented. One of many things that happen because of that is that the classic editor role is being challenged, as we're all suddenly our own editors. These changes, of course, lead to the need to assess the law from time to time and perhaps also to carry out some audits. Within the media field, and in particular with regard to the editorial role, source protection and now also user-generated content, the Committee considers it important to follow this closely. Where the law is obviously out of date, we consider it natural for the law to be modernised, for example. in the case of technology neutrality, which is not covered by the law today. We also need to be sure that the law is good enough to safeguard the protection of sources and the role of the editor – that is a prerequisite for ensuring the perhaps all the most important freedom we have in Norway, namely freedom of expression. Several of the questions raised in the proposal for a representative were examined in due course by the Media Responsibility Committee, under the title Freedom of Speech and Responsibility in a new day-to-day media. This investigation continues to be dealt with in the department. Now it is important to see the whole of the work and follow up the investigation. There is a work going on, and the Committee notes that it is announced that it will return to the Stortinget with this. So now all the threads have to be gathered, including the threads from the work of the Media Responsibility Committee. There are also some references to Sweden in the case documents, and I would like to point out that there are fundamental differences in the Norwegian and Swedish legal systems and traditions. I don't think it's desirable that we strive towards a system that looks more like the Swedish one, where it is more left to the courts to make the balances of interest. We see, as a recent example in Norway, the Rolfsen case, where the court clearly put down its feet as to how far investigators have the opportunity to go. The Committee also supports the proposal for a technology-neutral design of criminal law editors and notes that the Council of State wishes to launch an assessment on whether § 269 can be designed in a more technology-neutral way. The proposal in question is therefore a unanimous proposal from the Committee and includes, in addition to what we have mentioned, source protection. Source protection is an important protection for our – your and mine – right to be informed about matters of general interest. From a social point of view, this is protected. It's to get information that otherwise might not come out. The Committee considers that the government in the context of a law on media responsibility should look not only at the protection of sources but also at the limits of editorial responsibility for user-made content on the electronic platforms of the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e666	I am very pleased that we have received a majority in the Workers' Party's Committee's view on this matter. The rapporteur well described an industry that is in seemingly endless change, and that we have to keep up with what kind of new needs arise, and what kind of laws, regulations and schemes that no longer function optimally. We see this as a clear example here, where the law was initially somewhat unclear and pointed in two directions, and the need to improve legislation is now being clarified even more, as a result of more developments. Firstly, technological platforms are not covered by today’s legislation, and secondly, it is difficult to identify who has contributed to the publication and thus can be held responsible. Nor have there been clear limits on liability when it comes to user-generated content. The Labour Party is concerned — as the latest examples we have seen — that the source protection in practice is under pressure. The Rolfsen case is referred to in the draft representative and was also referred to by the rapporteur. In addition, for example: mentioned the treatment of a Dagblad journalist by the police in 2011 in connection with a security check on the way into Oslo District Court. There he was deprived of documents that he claimed were covered by the press's source protection, and it was also browsed through a clearly marked press block. The Civil Ombudsman found that this was an infringement of the rights of both the journalist and the newspaper to source protection under Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. We also saw it in 2012, at the Hordaland police district's attempt to search a journalist's house and in the editorial offices of the Hordaland newspaper, because the police wanted to see pictures taken by the journalists during a demonstration against the Masturbation in Hardanger the year before. It is therefore important that the government now investigates a law on media responsibility and underlines the editorial responsibility of editorial material, regardless of the platform on which it is published. In addition, we need to clarify the responsibility for user-generated substances and the impact of developments in existing legislation, including: the criminal procedure law, affects the protection of the source. The working party believes that the main rule must not be to investigate who are media sources, as is the case in Sweden. We also believe that the right of journalists and the media to protect the sources must be changed to an obligation to do so. Important information may be lost to society whose sources fear self-punishment or even worse: for their own security. As the Committee refers to in its examination of the case, studies show that the areas of substances where most anonymous sources exist are in the field of foreign and criminal substances, and in particular in the field of corruption, subsidisation and fraud, with major adverse effects on public and private activities. I hope the government will start work on the implementation of a new law as soon as possible, so that we now have important and long-term clarifications about responsibility and source protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e681	It is a very good initiative that is on our table today. This has been chosen by the Left and, of course, we are also going to support the committee position in voting today. Having a law on media responsibility can initially sound like something delimiting freedom of expression, while the reality is the opposite. To clarify and strengthen editorial responsibility, technology neutrality, etc., is important for our public conversation, but not least is source protection, and hopefully what can be a strengthening of source protection, important – not only for the public conversation, but also for many other aspects. We've been working a lot on alerts in the Labour and Social Committee. Having a strong source protection has an important side up against just notifying issues. Unfortunately, we don't have much to be proud of in Norway. There are too many people who are afraid to warn about unacceptable and sometimes criminal relationships, both in companies and not least in the public, where the alerts are even worse, at least about one should be a true investigator. So getting to the light important societal issues without fear of represals is a completely decisive democratic right, and it's also important for us as a society. I note from the remarks that the government parties point out that the Media Responsibility Committee has presented the NOU, and that it is important that this work in the Ministry ‘is not punctuated by the fact that some of the issues are taken out without seeing the whole of the work’. Well, it sounds a little dependable, but when it's the NOU from 2011, and it's been six years, with changing governments, I think it's completely curative that the Storting is starting to call for action. And when that's said, it's also true that there's going to be some parallel processes here. Firstly, the Ministry of Justice with the proposal for a new penal code, which directly intervenes in what we are discussing here, and in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Council of State has also been commissioned by the Stortinget – it was well in ours, I believe – to work to strengthen the alert protection. So it's clear that, after the decision today, the government obviously has to be able to coordinate what's going to happen in the different departments, there's no doubt about it, but there must be no reason to delay what's an important piece of legislation. It is true, as the Council of State writes, that through case-law in Norway — these assessments are largely left to case-law — we have a source of protection that appears to be reasonably strong. A lot of people were happy about the results in the much-mentioned Rolfsen case. When I say that, left and right, I mean that it's not just to leave to the courts to drag the lines here. We think it might have a lot to do precisely to codify a strong source of protection at a time when both the notifying institution and the freedom of expression must say to be under pressure. So it'll always be a lower threshold. The European Convention on Human Rights – EMC – Article 10 provides for some minimum standards on how far a person can go when it concerns research into the sources of the press, etc. But then it's important to remember that there are minimum standards. It does not in any way mean that Norway cannot rely on higher standards when it comes to source protection and protection of freedom of expression. One might think that it would make it difficult to detect crime and to investigate whether source protection becomes too strong. In each case, a person might argue for it, but from a social point of view, I don't think it's a good thing that a sheep has discovered a little less crime. On the contrary, I believe that having a strong source of protection is important in order to bring about serious public relations, which means that one can get a society where one is exposed and researching more crime. So this isn't necessarily something that's opposite to each other. I want to give the committee a boost for a good job and see to it that the government council and the ministry do at least the same good work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e702	I am pleased that the Committee has agreed on a recommendation in this important matter. The government will follow the mission, evaluate the issues and return to Stortinget. As I mentioned in my letter to the Committee on 15 September, the work is already well under way. This is because the questions Stortinget asks us to assess have been thoroughly investigated by the Media Responsibility Committee – which several representatives have been involved in – in NOU 2011:12 Freedom of expression and responsibility in a new media everyday life. The regulation of source protection is also discussed in the Criminal Procedures Committee’s investigation, which is currently being consulted. I am quite sure that a new and comprehensive selection work will delay the matter. That is why what remains, essentially, is to consider the proposals that have been examined and that we have on the table, and that the government is working on them, drawing the conclusions and summarising the regulatory solutions, before we come to the Storting with them. The consultation round showed that the press organisations were strongly critical of several of the recommendations of the Media Responsibility Committee. There were very different reactions that emerged in the hearing opinion. In the further investigation in the department I will therefore also focus on close and good dialogue with the media industry before drawing our final conclusions and coming to the Stortinget with them. The development of new media technologies has undoubtedly extended the real freedom of expression for most people. At the same time, the editor's role as gatekeepers has changed. Media users have gone from passive consumers of edited content to active content producers and distributors. Social media and other platforms have become important sources of information and channels of expression for the individual. Developments have also facilitated the publication to the public of new and more direct speakers by authorities and other professional actors. All of this changes the information flows and the ability to influence both attitudes and decision-making processes. Still, there is a fundamental and important distinction between the edited and the non-edited media. Editorial media are subject to the press's own self-determination system. The work is conducted in accordance with journalistic standards and principles, based on professionalism and professionalism. It works under the principle of editorial freedom from the owners. Edited media therefore have a high degree of credibility. The special rights of the edited media must also be respected in a new media reality, not in the interests of the media itself, but in the interests of their role as public janitors and guarantors of an open and informed public conversation. Strong source protection is considered to be one of the key prerequisites for public awareness of critical issues. Source protection is also strong in Norway today. However, the government will carefully assess the need for legislative changes, including: in the light of the proposal of the Criminal Procedures Committee. Anonymity presupposes that anyone else may be held liable if illegal content is published. The specific criminal liability of the editor has therefore been seen as the counterpart of the source protection system. In 2017, it makes little sense to have an editorial liability regulation limited to printed and broadcast. The aim must be the most technology-neutral regulation possible. Another important question is whether, and if so how, editorial responsibility should be limited to user-made content on electronic platforms. I therefore look forward to returning to Stortinget when the government has assessed, concluded and prepared its proposals. I am pleased that the Committee has worked closely on this matter and that they have reached the conclusion that they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e725	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e730	Getting a new law in place is an important matter for many, which includes: is established by the fact that all the hearing bodies are in charge of this matter. The Editorial Association has also asked for a media responsibility law for several years. Then it's very positive to hear that the work is going on, and I hope it means that we don't have to wait long. When does the Council of State estimate that we can expect this to be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e735	As I said, I welcome the conclusion reached by the Committee, and I am pleased that there is a great deal of consensus in this Chamber. The hearings showed that there were very divided reactions and opinions about the proposals that were presented in the NOU – there is no doubt about that. It also raises many difficult legal issues, which require thorough work. But I want to assure the representative that the government and the departments involved have worked – and work – thoroughly on the matter. For my part, I am very concerned that we also have a close dialogue with the press organisations, so that we can arrive at conclusions and recommendations for the Storting, which will have great support also for the most affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e744	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e762	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who would have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e771	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. It has not been so difficult to cooperate, for this is a matter on which all the parties in the Committee have agreed and fought in different ways and at different times. Then it is good when you can get together in one case and get things in place. The artistic economy is a demanding field of policy to work with. We're working on measures and arrangements to take care of artists at different stages of their development, we're going to give them the opportunity to move on, we're going to stimulate artists to do their business and thus enrich our lives, and we're going to be there to create a basis for a good future. Many artists do it in a good way, many get a ‘flying start’ for different reasons, many come under systems that help them move on, but a good deal feels that at some point in their career, it stops a little bit. They take their education, they learn a lot, and the interest of the news can often be valid, and then they come to a stage where they have to prove more, where everyday life gathers them in order to live on it. So how are we going to help them get on with this? It has been discussed in several rounds, and the proposal which is now in this case, or which was in document 8, was: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of how an art assistant system can be established and organised, as well as an assessment of which body can best manage such a system and come back to the Stortinget’. There has been a development along the way in this matter. In the budget negotiations, money was simply put into an art assistant scheme – 4 million. kr – and that means that one has already initiated a start-up and – we will call it – a pilot period. Because there are challenges to how it should be organised. How are we going to get established artists to take new ones with us in a good way? How are payments to be made? Who's going to hit? It becomes very important that we now have a proper system. It's the most important thing we can do with the artist pay schemes, it hits them, it hits them, it hits them, and it really does what we want to do, it helps them get on with it. I often talk to artists, and then I ask if that's how they would prefer to just have a government salary. I think I can say that everyone says no, they'd rather be on their own, but it's good to get help along the way. That's what we have to do. It is there that such a system should contribute to, the aid along the way, and at the same time make other artists that are more established, to be inspired, to give good advice and to show how a day-to-day needs to be handled because there are many things to be handled in everyday life. A consistent system that we can evaluate and say that this was the way to do it, and that might also be a model in other areas. Innovation is important, it is important to think about new ways to help Norwegian artists and Norwegian cultural workers into a day-to-day life where they can live off their business. I know that the Council of State is taking this challenge, and the Council of State has also said that in reply letters to the Committee, and that is good. Now we've got a little faster start than when the case was promoted, that's good, and today we're happy that that arrangement is in place, and that everyone can gather about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e789	Public support and good framework conditions for art and culture are an important investment in new and different thinking that develops and enriches our society. The government's investigation into the artistic economy of 2015, the autonomy of art and the economy of art, by the so-called Skarstein Committee, demonstrates that visual artists are a professional group with poor income development and that they are often in a vulnerable economic situation. The mandate of the investigation asked for an assessment of measures that could help to strengthen the entrepreneurial potential and demand perspective of artists, as well as increase entrepreneurship, including the organisation of artists at the start-up stage. The Workers' Party wants to follow up the recommendations of the sample, and therefore we have proposed an artistic economic reform in which, over the years, the appropriations for the existing grant schemes are stepped up and the introduction of new measures to strengthen the artists' ability to live by their own art. It will also be a central priority in our cultural policy in the future. Strengthening existing instruments as well as the establishment of the artificial assistance system is a thorough commitment to culture and nutrition by strengthening the ability of artists to live from their work and the ability to transfer knowledge and reach new markets. Unfortunately, this perspective is absent from the government's cultural policy, and despite the fact that an overall opposition has for several years asked for an escalation and creation of the artistic assistant system in particular. The Right Party and the Advance Party have remained in government. Fortunately, the opposition in the budget for this year received a majority in favour of its proposal by the Left and Christian People's Party standing on its side in the budget negotiations. Now it's finally going to be an art assistant arrangement. An artist-assistance scheme is a precise measure that could directly increase the ability to earn and facilitate artists at the start-up stage, as well as increase the production and income opportunities of artists who have access to assistants. The establishment of the scheme may contribute to the capture and development of new talent in the field of visual arts for the transfer of experience and competence between established and newly trained artists and may contribute to the professionalisation and enhancement of production opportunities for both parties. The Workers' Party is pleased that a total accumulation is now asking the Government to come to Stortinget with a concrete proposal for the arrangement and establishment of the Art Assistants' Scheme, and these members point out that the work on it does not in any way need to take time and expect a case to the Stortinget with proposals for setting up and introducing it at the latest in the context of the revised state budget for 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e802	It has long been demonstrated that the economy of visual artists is demanding. The government's investigation of the artist economy from 2015, the autonomy of art and the economy of art, fully documented this. In addition, the everyday life is marked by unforeseeable income and the income that comes is often very low. The average artistic income was as low as 96 000 kroner in 2015 – it had fallen 9.5 pst. from the previous year. There is thus little doubt that there is a need for measures to support this group. Poverty and difficult living conditions are greatly overestimated as inspiration, but are a clear risk of ending up as visual arts for the benefit of safer conditions. The Society of Young Artists has been working for several years to establish an assistant system for visual artists. This has been supported by the Christian People's Party together with the other proposers. I am very pleased that there is now an overall increase in support of the introduction of this good and targeted scheme. In our opinion, the AI is a model that will contribute to both the transfer of experience and competence between the established and the newly trained artists. It will provide professionalisation and production opportunities as well as help to strengthen the income opportunities of both parties, as set out in the proposal. Such an assistant scheme may capture and develop new talents in the field of visual arts. This will not only strengthen the artists, but also the art and the art experiences. The scheme will allow newly established artists to work as assistants to a more established colleague. If both parties are to receive optimum benefits from the scheme, the newly educated and the more established artist should be able to apply for funds in cooperation. The Christian People's Party has in several of its alternative budgets proposed funds for the creation of such a scheme, and we are pleased that we received 4 million. kr in the budgetary agreement with the Right, the Party of Advances and the Left. It should indicate that a more detailed proposal for device and introduction will come quickly, and we assume that arrangements for the scheme will be established in close dialogue with the artists' organisations, including the Society of Young Artists.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e817	Since the Central Party is not represented in the Family and Culture Committee, let me first have the opportunity to thank the proposers from the three parties who have made this proposal, which finally seems to be becoming a reality. As the setting for the matter is, the Central Party shares the intention of the proposal for a representative, and we have, as we call it, made concessions for the creation of artistic assistant settings in our alternative budget proposal both for last year and for the current year. It is a fact that the art economy has suffered a decline and has been under pressure for many years. This is well documented in reports and distributions. Politically, many parties must share responsibility for this. The Enger selection concluded that artistic premise was the area of the state cultural budget that had weakened growth in the period from 2005 to 2013. The Skarstein selection in its report could show a real decline from 2006 to 2013. There is a clear need to raise this issue and assess the tools to reverse the negative trend. The transition from education to establishment as a professional is required. You know one from a lot of industries. Many newly educated teachers meet the point of practice. Newly developed artists also often experience such a shock of practice. It is clear that it is imperative to focus on artistic development when the framework around it is skirted, and one would have to wonder about other incomes in order to survive financially. I note, unfortunately, that the issue of non-response concerns not only professionals in continuing training, but also image artists. By establishing such an assistant scheme, a positive contribution can be made by young artists who dare to bet and find footholds in their profession. It's hard to feed yourself as an artist. It's hard for young artists to establish themselves. The centre party agrees with the proposers that an artist-assistance scheme will contribute to the transfer of experience and competence between established and newly developed artists that will be of great value to both parties. The centre party is, as is well known, occupied with learning in practice and apprenticeships, and in many ways the idea of an artistic assistance scheme has clear parallels to the apprenticeship system – a transitional arrangement between study and professional life where young artists coming from the arts spheres have the possibility of professionalising in practice through an established artist and in this way learning, both artistically and when it is necessary to acquire knowledge about driving their own business. Even if today's volume is limited, probably because of the weak economy, it's a hundred-year tradition, at least, perhaps especially in the field of art. The great masters had several who, in turn, were raging maggots – to move on to the parallels to the apprenticeship system. So there's reason to believe that the scheme will lead to a win-win situation, where the established artists who accept an artist's assistant will also focus on the scheme by making it possible to assign an assistant and thus also expand production and strengthen the economy in its own business. It is gratifying that the proposal for voting is supported by a majority, and that the budgetary agreement represents a first start on the road to a permanent arrangement. The central part of the game is happy that a gathering is taking place today, asking the government to set up the scheme in line with its intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e832	The artist economy has always been the focus of Stortinget. Some of the most pervasive conflict cases in this hall in the 1800s and also out in the 1900s were actually about state scholarships to artists. Now, fortunately, we are no longer discussing problems, at least not what single artists should be supported, but the policy on the economy of artists is still important. Now it's sometimes made up of some people that these artists have to live off what people want to pay them to do, and not what the Storing will pay them to do. I think we should bring with us in such a way that both culture and art are important common good, and also that there are perhaps few, if anything, areas on the agenda of the Stortinget where one gets so much left for such small funds. Just to take an illustration from the Labour and Social Committee, where I am, this year the cost of retirement alone increases by more than the entire amount of the cultural budget – not that one does not get much back for the old age pension, at least those who receive it. The left is to establish an artist's assistant system. We have been for a long time, and therefore we were also very pleased that in the budget negotiations in the autumn we had an impact on the establishment of such a system. It was an important saying for us, and we are happy that we have our bourgeois cooperation party on the team. Of course, that's $4 million. We hope, as the chairman of the committee said, that we will now have useful experience through a pilot programme and see how we can establish and develop this system in the best possible way. Like previous speakers, we expect the government to come back to Stortinget as soon as possible with the details around it. Having an artistic assistant scheme for the visual arts field, which we are in the process of doing here in the first place, will contribute to a very important transfer of experience between established artists and future artists, both professionally and also when it comes to happiness in the market, and I must say personally that I think maybe one of the most important things can bring with it in this exchange of experience. Artists are now thinking first and foremost of art and developing their art, but I think we're all a few of them – and they're probably some of them, too – that you also have to be able to go out there and think about things that you might not have thought so much about when you've taken education and developed, how a developer can reach a larger audience, how to reach that audience, and how to spend money on it as well. So for those who are concerned about artists being able to stand on their own – and we are too – I believe that just getting such an experience transfer is important to achieve that goal, that artists working in close collaboration with established artists can eventually gain that very experience, the tools they need to succeed in standing on their own legs as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e843	I do not know if there is so much to add to this case. Here it's full consensus, and it's joyous. The government wants to facilitate a policy that helps more artists and cultural entrepreneurs to live on their own art and cultural activities. The synthetic assistant scheme strengthens entrepreneurship among visual artists, which is lagging behind in a field with few sources of income other than public support. The action could raise the contemporary art scene in Norway to a more productive and professional level. It will also be natural to see it in the context of the government's work on a more sustainable cultural life. That's why I have black Stortinget that I am very positive about this proposal, and that the government is looking at how we can get started and follow up the agreement in the budget agreement before Christmas. We have already done well in this work, so when the Workers' Party wants to come back to the RNB with an orientation on the work, and come back to the Stortinget, I can already report that we have asked the Norwegian Cultural Council in an allocation letter for 2017 to draw up proposals on the organisation of the action, based on the Left's proposal and the agreement that came in the autumn, which was very good and to which they joined. It's the Cultural Council in full swing working on it. I am excited about the proposal that they will put forward to the Ministry before it starts. There is every reason to believe – as the Left’s representative says – that there are so far little sums and that it will be a pilot scheme. It's important to try it out. As the chairman of the committee said from the pulpit, there will be a precise arrangement. That's what we're all concerned about, it has to get to the artists who have the need, so that they realize what they're working on, and that it actually takes the artists in the right way and is a good move. That's why we're working on a more permanent solution. Then it'll be exciting to see what experience we can gain from that pilot project, and what we can get out of the 4 million. kr that has already been adopted. I am pleased that the Storting agrees on this, and I look forward to these being measures that will benefit the artists, and from which they will benefit a great deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e858	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e863	An overall opposition has now for three years been proposing the establishment of an artistic assistant scheme in its alternative budgets. It's actually been a majority to set up this scheme for a long time. But the Party of Advancement and the Right has held back and opposed government. I am pleased that a long struggle for the artists' living conditions against the government parties is now over and that the arrangement will see the light of day. But doesn't the Council of State really think it's a little awkward that her party and government have been fighting it for so long?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e868	Now I just said from the pulpit that I am very pleased with this consensus, and that after the Workers' Party has been sitting with the Minister of Culture for eight years without putting it in place, now happens – thanks to the fact that the Left has stood on and that the bourgeois consensus in the autumn has provided for this. So I'm glad that it's a government with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party in the Grand Duchy that introduces an artistic assistant system, all the time the Workers' Party has had eight years with the Minister of Culture to do it, but chose not to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e874	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e892	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from the member of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e901	Today we are considering a proposal for a representative to restore the support system for private archives. There are about 500,000 shelving metres of historical archives distributed among archives, libraries and museums in Norway. Of these, the private archives make up about 20 pst. These archives come from enterprises, organisations and individuals. The private archives are also important sources of understanding our common cultural heritage and history. Some archives are also referred to as important sources of rights documentation. It is important that there are good support schemes, including for the private archives in Norway, and recognition of their efforts to preserve our history. Many private archives are important for the history of local environments and corner stone holdings. There are major regional differences, and some major sectors of society are poorly documented in Norwegian archives. The private archives form a large part of the Norwegian social documentation and there is a need for an overall approach to Norwegian archival policy which also involves the private archives. The Culture Council states that they lack the competence to assess private archives and therefore have not continued the support scheme and that the Swedish Archives Agency will only support private archives in specific cases. The retention of private archives is not a legal task, and it can lead to holes in the long-term social documentation, which I believe we are going to regret. This will be negative both for society as a whole and for the individual. Archives have traditionally been a small visible part of the ABM sector, and resources have been small. But times are changing, and the challenges in the archive field are greater than ever, especially when we think about the great digitization of the archive area that we have in front of us. Therefore, Norway needs a real record-keeping commitment, where both the sector and the national, regional and local challenges are taken seriously. Archives, libraries and museums are important sources of knowledge. In a knowledge society like ours, access to information is vital, and public gatherings have been a good contributor in this area for many years. I am pleased that the Council of State in its letter of reply refers to the 2007 ABM Development Survey, which concludes that important sectors of society are weakly documented, and that there are therefore also major regional differences. Yes, the Council of State sees the challenges. The ambition of the private archives initiative is therefore a planned selection to ensure that private archives from important sectors of society and all regions of the country are preserved. I would recommend the Committee's recommendation on this matter, promoted by the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e922	The reason for the proposal is that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party believe that the great need to preserve private archives in museums is not met by today's regime, which the government has put in place. When the government of Stoltenberg II set up the aid scheme in 2010, it was in order to contribute to the preservation of the most important historical material in the future. The need was great at the time and is still great. We note the response of the state council Hofstad Helleland, where the state council does not want to reverse the scheme, but, on the other hand, leaves the trade union to decide the future of private archives. An arm's length distance from its own policy may well call this, in the proper sense of the words. At best, there may be a misunderstanding about today's system, which does not provide for private archives in museums, and that is the background to today's proposal. Museums holding private archives must be given the opportunity to apply for funds through support schemes. Therefore, on behalf of the proposers, I would like to address our proposal, and I would also like to make it clear that we are voting in a subsidiary way for the position of the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e935	The representative of Hege Haukeland Liadal has thus taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e940	The archive sector outside the Swedish Archives Agency is an important part of the Norwegian archive sector, and a large part of the Norwegian archival landscape consists of local and regional institutions which are not part of the Swedish Archives Agency and which manage both public and private archives. If we are to be able to ensure a good development of the whole archive field, local and regional institutions also need to be noted and strengthened. This was the background for us in the Central Party, together with the Labour Party, to present this proposal for a representative last spring. In recent years, there has been a sharp decline in the trajectory of development funds to the sector. For 2015, about half of what one did in 2012, and there have been many public publications where one has stated that private archives are under-represented in our collective social documentation. The Stortinge adopted a support scheme for private archives in 2010 and was placed under the Culture Council. It has not been passed on, so today there is no specific support scheme for private archives, either for archival institutions or museum institutions. The Swedish Cultural Council has not distributed earmarked funds for the private archive work in the museum, as one of its leaders, nor does the Swedish National Archives have any earmarked funds for private archives. The financing of private archives is now in a critical situation and will lead to holes in the memory of society, because without archives for the private sector – i.e. businesses, organisations and individuals – the sources of our common history and cultural heritage are incomplete. Private archives need to be given greater space in our collective social documentation, and, therefore, a long-term commitment to private archival work is essential. Thus, the private archive support scheme was an integral part of the Council of Culture's development tools for archives and museums, which were created in 2011. In 2015, the Archivverket was responsible for moving to Arkivverket. The archive company released 4 million. kr to development funds for archives in 2015, but none of these were private archives. The Museum could not search the Swedish Archives Agency, but was shown to the Swedish Cultural Council's collection management programme, and from the Swedish Cultural Council's collection management programme, none of the permissions were given to purely private archive projects. This shows that private archives have fallen between two chairs and lacks secure financing. We can't have it that way. I read from the setting that there is a multiple voice in favour of the proposal for Decision I that the government should engage in dialogue with the trade unions in order to assess whether the creation of a specific support scheme should be a priority instrument. Of course, the Central Party supports its proposal, which is what is also in the proposal for a representative. I react a little to the wording of the Roman Numeral Decision, where one refers to the trade unions. I understand that you can have a proposal where a beg government evaluates to create this, and the government does everything in a dialogue with its professionals. But I thought it was particularly worth pointing out in a proposal for a roll-out decision, and I can't quite see how the plurality in the setting otherwise means that financing of private archives is to be secured. That's what's at stake in this case: how to secure the funding of private archives in Norway? And if you don't want a special support scheme: what's the option? You might have rewritten it a little bit, from the Council of State and the plural. We shall, in turn, vote in favour of the proposal for Decision I when the proposal tabled by the Labour Party falls. Then we will consider the loose proposal from the Left - perhaps there should be a little more adjustments. But at least initially we'll probably also support what's caused by the Left of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e955	Several members of the Committee have repeatedly met those working with the private archives and received feedback that it has been a challenging everyday experience. It is true that the separate private archive scheme was reformed and is now covered by the same scheme that others have when applying for. But we have received feedback that it does not work as intended. We're serious about that. That's why it's good that, with slightly different input angles, we seem to get together eventually, that the government should look at this again. Restoring the old system isn't necessarily the right thing either, because we've also received feedback that it wasn't all about the one that was completely top, and the world is evolving. But there is no doubt that there is a need to ensure also the part of the history that lies in the private archives, which the private enterprises own. More should contribute. There's got to be a consciousness. We big-time representatives are on many company visits, and I've made it a habit to ask when I'm around, about how they handle their story in the different businesses I visit. There's a lot of answers one gets there. That's why I think it's important to find a forward-looking and good system that stimulates both businesses and the private archives of big and good business, and then we have to help. It may be done by amending the existing arrangements or by establishing a special arrangement. It is precisely the background for saying that one should do so in dialogue with those who do so in everyday life. The factions know how this works and will certainly be able to make sense of what it's like. We want to reward those who do a good job here. We'll take care of the story. This is the way – and we are aware of that here in the house – that this afternoon this debate is history. That's the way it is in the rest of society as well. It is important to take care of for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e968	It has been said very nicely about the importance of private archives, how much of our common memory they actually make up today, and these actors have over time called out warnings about the lack of support and good arrangements. It could lead to huge holes in the common memory of society. So here it's obvious a work that needs to be done. The minority proposal in the vote will have budgetary implications. Based on the Left Cooperation Agreement, we're going to support the plural setting, which we perceive is a clear signal to the government about a work that needs to be done. That's good. So I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to address the proposal that has been submitted by me on behalf of the Left. We have had a little dialogue in the course of the day, and I will now propose some changes to that proposal, which hopefully will bring together a number. What I am proposing is that one in the proposal deletes ‘to come back to the Storting with proposals for revision’ and instead insert ‘assess an audit’, so that the whole proposal will read as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider a revision of cultural laws, where different cultural actions, including relevant legislation on archives, libraries and museums, are taken into account through simplification and collection of current legislation in the field, and where state cultural obligations are concreteised.’ I hope that's a proposal that can collect multiples. Otherwise, it is not the first time the Left has delivered this proposal. Already when a law on culture was passed, the left raised the points here, that today we have a very fragmented code. I think that the document 8 we are dealing with shows the need for a little more long-term leadership here, more conservative conditions and a coherent regulatory framework. With that proposal, I hope that the government will start a work that can hopefully turn into something that comes back to Stortinget with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e986	The representative has addressed the proposal he has referred to in a slightly revised version.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e991	The Committee points out that the private archives are an important source of understanding our common cultural heritage and history. The Committee also demonstrates in its attitude that some private archives are important sources of proof of rights and that it is important that there are good support schemes for private archives. I fully support this, and it is also a good starting point for assessing the use of state instruments in private archive work. The cultural statistics of the Statistical Central Agency for 2015 show that 110,000 shelving meters of private archives have been preserved! However, this is only a small part of the archives created by organisations, private enterprises and institutions and by individuals. The work on historical private archives is carried out by the Swedish Archives Agency, state archives, intercommunal archives, city archives, private archives, the National Library, public libraries and not least by the museums. Private archiving in these institutions is a crucial contribution to our cultural heritage, and when private archives are preserved so that they become available for use, they become sources of knowledge and experiences for the whole population. The operating appropriations for the Swedish Archives and Museums constitute the main government financial instruments in the private archives operation, and like former cultural ministers, I have not earmarked how much of the annual appropriations for the Swedish Archives Agency to go to private archives. The same applies to the annual operating grants to the museums. In addition, state funds are provided for projects and development actions in the archive and museum fields. From these, the Swedish Archives Agency has supported cooperation measures for the conservation of private archives, for the development of conservation methods, for conservation plans, for registration schemes, for digitisation, dissemination and mass publication. The challenges of private archiving are many, but in order to avoid loss of conservation material, we must first have a plan for what should be preserved. Thus, it will be possible to target the State instruments more closely in order to ensure conservation of private archives when the owners of the archives no longer need them. Resources are required for this scheme, for cataloguing, for storage facilities, for facilitating use and for the dissemination of the private archives. The Swedish Archives Agency and Norwegian Cultural Councils have a lot of the knowledge about the needs and the archival requirements to assess state support for private archive work. The Committee’s recommendation is to oblige the government to have dialogue with the trade unions on the issue of a specific private archive support scheme, that there should be a priority instrument in the private archive operation and that it will ensure a sound decision-making basis in the examination of the issue. The proposal for a decision emphasises that the competence of the trade unions should be used in the assessment of whether a specific private archive support scheme should be established. It is true that I would ask the trade unions to assess whether an aid scheme will be a priority instrument in this effort. I would also like to ask the trade unions to assess the device with the purpose and criteria of any support schemes. Any institution retaining historical private archives shall be able to apply for funds from such a support scheme. The Committee's ambition is a planned selection to ensure that private archives from key social sectors and all regions of the country are preserved. The Committee's ambition is to form the basis for the Ministry of Culture's further dialogue with the trade unions. I have noticed that the committee believes that parts of the collection need to be digitised in order to increase the availability of the audience. It will also be a prerequisite for assessing priority instruments for the private archives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1006	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1012	According to LLP, the National Archives Agency for Local and Private Archives, it is currently not possible for museums to apply for funds for private archives under the support schemes of the Swedish Archives Agency or the Council of Culture after the conversion to the government. Thus, important private sector societal evidence is not kept or made available, or may be at risk of loss. I wonder if the Council of State today agrees with LLP that museums with archives do not have access to apply for funds for their private archives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1017	As I mentioned in my post, the main financial instruments of the private archiving operation are the annual operating appropriations of the Swedish Archives Agency and the museums. Now, as in the past, it is up to the Swedish Archives Agency and the individual museum to decide how much of the funding to go to work on the private archive. So instead of controlling the Archives and Museums in detail, I have confidence that the companies take cultural heritage into account in their priorities, and that the Norwegian Cultural Council, which is responsible for the management tasks related to the museum sector, takes care of them in the best possible way. I fully trust that, and before I take a further position on the issue of setting up a specific support scheme, I will obtain an assessment from the Swedish Archives Agency and the Norwegian Cultural Council, which has competence in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1022	I thank you for your answer. It is well documented that private sector archives and, in particular, digital private archives are clearly under-represented in relation to the public sector, and that therefore our overall societal documentation is not as good as it could have been. The Ministry of Culture reports that the Swedish Archives Agency has granted 4.3 million in the years 2015 and 2016. kr for various private archive projects, including development work, with a view to safeguarding the digital private archive. Does the Council of State think that this level of support is sufficient to ensure that today's private archives are preserved as sources of understanding our history and culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1027	As I mentioned in my post, there are many hundreds of thousands of meters of private archives, and the mass in addition to that, which is important documentation to take care of, and it can probably always be used more. The most important thing is that the two-million-dollar earmarked allocation. kr, which came into the 2010 budget, was to establish a grant scheme for private archives. In the 2011 government budget, the Stortinget, on a proposal from the government of Stoltenberg II, decided to amend it. These funds were to be committed to projects and development measures in the field of archives and museums. Since then, the Norwegian Cultural Council and the Swedish Archives have managed these funds. Designating parts of the development funds for private archives would reverse the decision of 2011 and the proposal of the Stoltenberg II government, and I don't know what has changed very much since then.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1032	Today, a majority decision is taken to ask the government to engage in dialogue with the trade unions to assess the creation of a specific support scheme for private archives. My question is what the Council of State itself thinks is the opposite of having a specific support scheme. Are there countermeasures against having earmarks for private archives? And can the council explain how an otherwise will secure private archives, which stands for 20 pst. of the range? And finally, before what aspect of time does the Council of State see that it will follow up this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1037	This Right Party government has great confidence in our businesses. I also have that for the Swedish Archives Agency and the Swedish Cultural Council. For this reason, the government trusts that it will take account of cultural heritage priorities as a basis for their work. It is up to the Swedish Archives Agency and to each museum to decide how much of the appropriations will go to work with private archives. I will now engage in dialogue with them and see if a special scheme, as is proposed here, will make them better able to prioritise. But we basically have full confidence that they take the necessary care to preserve the cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1042	Now I had a lot of questions, but the one question the council didn't answer was what time the council or government would follow up this proposal. Would you like to be in the context of a revised budget, or is there a next government budget? In this case, there will be another year without each archive having the possibility to apply for support for its operations. So I'd like to get an answer to the time aspect the Council of State is looking at. It is also a matter of prioritizing the Swedish Archives Agency, but does the Council of State see that they need more resources in the Swedish Archives Agency to provide good service to the private archives as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1049	If they need more money, a budgetary matter becomes, and the representative is well aware that it will be reported in the State budget if necessary. As for the time aspect, I will start the dialogue as quickly as possible, and then I will report back to Stortinget when it's natural. So I want to say that in the 2011 state budget, the Stortinget decided, on a proposal from the Stoltenberg II government, of which the Senter party was part, to add these funds we are now talking about, under the heading of project and development actions in the archive and museum field. Since 2011, therefore, no government appropriations or funds have been earmarked for a private archive support scheme, and from 2011 until 2014 these funds and development funds have been managed by the Norwegian Cultural Council. They report on the disposal of the appropriations they receive, and I have full confidence that they will do so further in the best way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1056	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1063	First just a little comment: I think it's important when we're going to make an arrangement for the future of the private archives, that we're not just picking up an old scheme that was abandoned for several reasons. Then we have to think openly, then we have to involve those who know a lot about this and hear what's going on, and what's the best way to trigger it. I think in this case, as in other debates we have had, that is to say, accurate arrangements might be what we should have the most attention around. Then I can confirm that the representative Rotevatn has his wish – at least from the Right and the Advance Party – that the revision of the proposal seems to be good and will therefore support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1070	If in doubt, the Workers' Party has full confidence in both archival works and cultural councils. What I'm a little less sure is whether the government has understood the starting point for the sale, because this is not about the Swedish Archives Agency or the Council of Culture. This is about private archives in museums that today do not have the opportunity to apply for support from either the Swedish Cultural Council or the Swedish Archives Agency. This is the response from the Landslag for local and private archives, LLP, which is the reason for the rejection of the Swedish Archives Agency and the Swedish Cultural Council, and that is why the Workers' Party and the Centre are promoting this proposal today. I almost wonder if the Council of State has understood the starting point. But back to proposal No. 2, from the Left to the explanation of vote: the Labour Party will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1078	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1417	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1427	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1436	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Hanne Thürmer on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the organisation of, and mandate for, a national centre of competence for child labour, participation and information, and to assess the possibility of establishing such a centre of expertise. The majority asks the government to file a case for the Storting in an appropriate manner.» The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1516	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Sveinung Rotevatern on behalf of Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The wording of the proposal has been amended in the course of the debate and reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider a revision of cultural laws, where different cultural actions, including relevant legislation on archives, libraries and museums, are taken into account through a simplification and collection of today’s elaborate legislation in the field and where state cultural commitments are concretely formulated.’ In the course of the debate, the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party and the Centre have said that they will support the proposal. The President understands that this also applies to the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1540	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose the restoration of the private archive support scheme, with a minimum financial framework at the level of the support scheme in the past. The aid scheme shall be administered by the National Archives. All institutions holding archives, including museums, shall be granted access to the application for funds through the support scheme.’;» The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1567	The left has indicated support for the configuration. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-17.ana.ud53e1656	Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It hasn't happened. The meeting has thus been cancelled.
