ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e42	From the Workers' Group there are permissive requests for representatives of Gunvor Eldegard and Hege Haukeland Liadal from 13 February to 15 February, both to take part in UN consultations under the auspices of the Interparliamentary Union in New York. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are proposed to meet in Stortinget on 14 and 15 February: For Akershus County: Are Health For the Province of Rogaland: Unn Therese Omdal – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Else-May Botten, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e67	On behalf of Odd Omland, Terje Aasland, Eirik Sivertsen, Helga Pedersen, Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Kjell-Idar Juvik, Kåre Simensen, Anna Ljunggren, Martin Henriksen and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a new power cap for the mineral industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e72	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e90	The Judicial Committee has dealt with Prop. 6 L on technology neutrality. In the proposal, the government proposes to open up more technology-neutral solutions through changes. disclosure law, incassolova and forced completion law. The Committee is in agreement on the amendments to the Law on Dispute Resolution, such as: follows up the Storting's previous decision that opens up electronic object intelligence. In the case of changes to the incassolova and forced completion laws, physical communication is now required for the use of electronic mail. Electronic communications are becoming more and more widespread in everyday life to people, and too many people may wish to receive such messages electronically. The Committee has set itself behind the main objective of the proposal, which is to open electronic mail in these cases. However, there have been some contradictions in the Committee on how such electronic communications can be implemented and the requirements to be met. It is now foreseen that the details will be regulated by regulation. Nevertheless, the Centre Party has its own comments – and we have our comments with others – that focus on the concerns of those who do not expect or want to receive important messages as electronic mail. The other parties to the Committee have their own observations on their views on how electronic communications can be implemented. All of these comments can be read in the configuration from the Justice Committee. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that there is a great deal of agreement in the Committee on the importance of the amendments that have been proposed. By doing so, I recommend the setting from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e105	I would like to thank the Judicial Committee for a quick examination of the proposition. The digitalisation of society has changed the way we communicate. It also provides opportunities for easier interaction between the public and private sectors, and it allows us to process more effectively. Making use of the opportunities offered by the technology is an important part of the government's digitisation work. For electronic information, the measures proposed are a follow-up to projects which have been in progress for about 15 years and which are mentioned in the Government’s Communication ‘Digital Agenda for Norway — ICT for a simpler everyday life and increased productivity’. Simplification of everyday life and increased productivity are important objectives of government, and the proposals in this proposition provide significant socio-economic gains. About 1.6 million documents per year are displayed in the Map. It is reported that the social benefit of e-inklysing may be up to 1.3 billion. kr. Number of reminders, debt collection notices, enforcement notices, etc. is very significant. The opening of electronic communications has a corresponding socio-economic profit potential. The majority of this gain comes in the private sector as a result of more efficient banking and property processes. This helps to make Norwegian business more competitive. Several of the proposed legislative changes are necessary for electronic object lighting. There is a scheme the government hopes to get operational in just a few months. I note with satisfaction that the committee has unanimously agreed to the bill to open up, among other things. Notification of enforcement and collection agency shall be sent by electronic means. So there's a varying minority that points to important considerations just in this context. This is what we want to do in the further work, if it becomes appropriate in the regulation to open up electronic alerts other than those which are pre-cleared or reassuring in the majority's observations. We're definitely taking those notes with us. I also thank you for a constructive attitude to take advantage of the opportunity to rectify what has been some of the incubators in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e124	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e138	I would like to thank the Committee for its good work on this matter. As Stortinget has noticed, the Committee's position is unanimous. That means that we're all busy with the railway, and that it has to work well. The Committee points out in its first comment that there is broad agreement on the importance of a well-run railway and on the transport policy objective for the railway. The rail transport policy objective is to provide an efficient, accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport system that meets the needs of society for transport and promotes regional development. Our civilization is characterized by the fact that far more critical functions than just working trains are important. Democracy is important; control mechanisms and feedback systems on responsible policies are important for policy-making. What's the essence of the feedback in this case, and as I think we're happy for everyone, is that things have to be corrected, but that the Council of State has taken those things into consideration and has given good confirmation of how the government will follow up the case. The main findings of the National Audit Office in this case are these: increased appropriations have to a small extent led to the achievement of the objectives of operational stability. The management and follow-up of the maintenance work has been weak. The management of the railway system has not provided the necessary control tools. The railway station has incomplete documentation of the state of the road. The railway works do not have a system to measure the productivity of the maintenance work. Measures necessary to improve the management information for the maintenance work are not a priority. And finally, the Ministry has little information about whether the appropriations are used efficiently. So this applies to the period 2006-2015. These comments are unanimous in the Committee's agreement, we agree with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, and the Committee has a number of additional comments. It should be possible for the Railway Agency to assess whether the achievement of the service in maintenance costs since 2006 has given a corresponding increase in maintenance work carried out. Given an increase in the appropriations for maintenance, we believe it is critical that the results for operational stability have not been improved in total during the period – given the increase that has occurred. The railway undertaking's responsibilities and mandate require the establishment to have the necessary competence to carry out its own social mission according to the instructions, and to ensure adequate information on governance and sound decision-making. Internal governance shall be so designed that, together with statistics, analyses and other relevant systems, the economic system of the activity highlights the activity – whether it is operated efficiently in relation to costs and defined objectives and performance requirements. An establishment also has a responsibility to operate so transparent and measurable that it makes itself politically manageable, so that it can take informed decisions itself, and so that available governance information can shed light on whether the establishment fulfils the task and contributes to predictable framework conditions for suppliers. Information on the state of the road and the results of maintenance work is included as a central part of the management information an establishment must be expected to provide the ministry with regular reporting. The Ministry of Transport has an overall responsibility to follow up the railway network’s reporting, and the Committee is therefore satisfied that, in its reply to the Riksrevision, the Council of State ‘respectfully agrees with the audit’s recommendations to follow up the railway system’ and will follow this up in the establishment management dialogue. Therefore, the Committee expected that at the start of a new railway governance structure on 1 January 2017, the recommendations of the National Audit Office were incorporated in Document 3:10 for 2015-2016. This means ensuring that management strengthens the management control and follow-up of the maintenance work carried out, both on its own and by external suppliers, by first establishing a more systematic, comprehensive and strategic management of the maintenance, second ensuring that a necessary and reliable management information system is in place, and, thirdly, assessing efficiency in the planning of maintenance carried out by external suppliers, and also assessing whether the performance targets set by the department provide sufficient management information on the efficiency of the maintenance of the railway network. Better data collection and processing procedures must be put in place. Performance measurement must be ensured. Required control tools must be in place and in use. Adequate competence in signalling systems at the railway station must also be provided as soon as possible. If the train is to be a real alternative to less environmentally friendly modes of transport, the first bid is that the train leaves. Over 15 years different state budgets have referred to improvements in the operational stability of train traffic and the operation and maintenance of the railway as high priority areas. The Riksrevision study covers the period 2006-2015. As we know, we have had two different governments in that period, and so now the results are the responsibility of Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen. The Minister of Transport writes in his reply to the Riksrevision that although he finds their comments somewhat unsound, he strongly agrees with the recommendations and will follow up the railway works – as it is then called, and as the Stortinget knows, it is now divided into the Railway Directorate and Bane NOR – management in that area. The Minister of Transport also writes that priority should be given to maintaining and discussing the maintenance strategy more closely in the work of the National Transport Plan. I support that conclusion. When taking the floor, it would be interesting to hear whether he can already say something about how this will be dealt with in a new national transport plan. In addition, it would be interesting to know whether the Minister can explain some of the ways in which the National Audit Office's recommendation in Document 3:10 is now incorporated into a new railway governance structure, in line with the Committee's expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e163	I think of the statement to the case-speaker, because as he said, the committee is entirely in agreement with all the comments. As the case-speaker also said, there is broad political agreement on the importance of a well-run railway and that the transport policy objective of the railways is to provide an efficient, accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport system to meet the needs of transport in society and to promote regional development. For passengers to choose a railway, it is necessary for the station responsible for the network to be successful in achieving this objective. Many of us work for a new railway – as I have probably talked about Follobana and intercity many times – but it is important that the existing railway network should also work. Unfortunately, the train commuters often find that this is not the case. It may be the cold levels that do it, then the railroad can stand, or there may be something about the signalling system, and there will be a bus for trains, long queues, and people will be late for work or too late to pick up their children in kindergarten. It's serious, and I'm pleased with the Riksrevision report, which has the following main findings: First of all, increasing the permissions does not actually lead to one reaching the measure of operational stability. It is weak control and follow-up of the maintenance work. The conduit does not provide a required control tool. There is a lack of a long-term governance strategy. There are errors in the annual accounts. Production reports have a low quality. There is little analysis and evaluation in the reporting. There is little use of comparisons internally and externally, and there is little management information on the effectiveness of the use of the supplier market. Furthermore, the main point is that the Railway Station has incomplete documentation of the state of the track. There are actually bad records in BaneData, and one depends on local knowledge that is not documented in BaneData. There is also no system to measure maintenance productivity, and there is no quantity management system here. They lack the necessary measures to improve the management information for the maintenance work – it is not a priority in the Railway Works, and the Ministry has little information about what we have given in the licenses for maintenance is being used effectively. Therefore, the entire Committee agrees with the Riksrevision, which recommends that one ensure that the leadership strengthens the control and follow-up of the maintenance work carried out both by its own and by external suppliers, by: establish a more systematic, holistic and strategic management of maintenance; ensure that necessary and reliable management information is in fact available; assess efficiency in maintenance planning carried out by external suppliers; The National Audit Office also recommends assessing the performance targets seen by the Ministry, providing adequate management information on the effectiveness of the maintenance of the network. The Committee has written a joint remark that we expect all of this to be incorporated into the new railway governance structure, which has already been set up, and it will be exciting to hear the Council of State inform the Government of how this has been prioritised at the start of the new system. Because if most possible people are going to use the train – which I think is a target – then the maintenance work must be a priority, so that the train goes when it is supposed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e194	Only a few comments on a position which has been put forward unanimously by the Committee and which has been set out in detail by the rapporteur. We might be able to remind ourselves in this context that once the exact train itself was testing whether it was well managed in the country. The Italian dictator Mussolini made it say that it was under him, unlike the previous government, that trains came and went exactly. Historians have later studied whether this was really the case, whether it was justified by objective facts, how a national audit could have mapped it, or whether it was more – let's say – the communications department that had made this point. We can probably assume that both at the time and now the Italian national audit may not be as strong as the Norwegian one, and that is why we should be pleased with the work done in an important area, which affects so many people's lives, so that the rest of society can function by getting back and forth to the important tasks in a timely manner. Now there is no lack of international comparison in train operation, and it is not Rocket Science either, i.e. rocket science. There are international standards on what is a reasonable distribution between what is called scheduled maintenance and what is event-based. Event-based means that you pull out when something falls down and falls over the rails, or whatever it should be. It goes without saying that if you have a solid capital base, an asset, which is intact, it's the planned maintenance that will dominate, and it's also more rational. Therefore, on this occasion, I would like to say – also because it is a little outside of the system we are working on – that one can imagine that we also have an economic discipline that would have been involved in carrying out the investment for each investment and thus being forced to cancel it. Depreciation should therefore reflect the wear-down, but also the maintenance needs and not least the discipline of ensuring that in the course of the business day, money is allocated to ensure that the assets are not destroyed. There are a number of things to say about the government budget system, which is based on the cash principle – it is believed that as long as there is money in the cash, everything is fine, while, in reality, significant maintenance kits cannot be built up. That discipline exists in any private company, which has to be treated in a better and more offensive way than this. I would also like to say that we are very much in favour of the suggestions made by the Committee on the basis of proposals from the National Audit Office. But I think we need to discuss in more detail what that means, for example. that management strengthens the management and follow-up of maintenance work, both on its own and by suppliers, by establishing a more systematic, comprehensive and strategic management of maintenance. I think the answer is precisely that, in the operational everyday life and within the adopted budget, one is forced annually to create room for the maintenance that needs to be done in order not to allow such a large backlog to be built. Then you can also see in addition to the other assets that the state and the municipality have. It's part of the same problem, that granting money for maintenance is not as heroic as consecrating completely new installations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e209	The main objective of railway policy is to help those who are going out to get a good rail service. There is broad political agreement on this and on the importance of a well-run railway, where efficiency and accessibility are at the heart of it. The large infrastructure that we have built up on the rail network over very many years has cost a lot of money, and it is therefore important that we maintain the capital invested in a good way. The railway network, as other infrastructure, must be well maintained in order to ensure the safety and stability of the network – in other words, to ensure good punctuality and regularity of traffic and to minimise disruptions of operation. So what is the state of the railway network, as the Riksrevision has seen? In its 2006-2015 survey, the National Audit Office has unfortunately revealed discouraging findings. I want to repeat some of these. Increased appropriations for the Railway Agency have, until 2015, led to little achievement of the operational stability objectives. The management and follow-up of the maintenance work is weak and no priority is given to measures to improve the management information for the maintenance work. The Ministry has little information on whether the appropriations are used effectively. In order to allocate appropriations to the transport sector, and in particular to the Railway Agency, the size of the railway station must be based on the assumption that documentation of the state of the road is complete and describe the priority tasks that must be carried out in order for the Storting to have a guarantee that objectives of availability and up-to-date time are reached at all times. It is worrying when it is revealed that there is a lack of competence in signalling installations at the railway station. The signalling system is the most important element in railway safety, and this area should therefore have been a much higher priority in the past. There can be no good excuse for one waiting for the installation of a new type of signalling system. For quite many years, the Railway Agency has allowed the maintenance to grow, which was estimated at about 17.7 billion by the end of 2014. kr. This says about the state of the web. I would like to commend the Council of State for having taken full account of the problems related to the lack of maintenance on the railway, and that the government from 2015 has given the Stortinget sufficient funds to reduce the maintenance run. Increases in appropriations have been achieved by broadly reaching the punctuality targets, and the Railway Agency reached its target for the first time in 2015. It is very good that the Council of State agrees with the Riksrevision's recommendations to follow up the management of the Railway Agency, and includes this in the management dialogue. It is therefore expected that the recommendations of the National Audit Office, as set out in the National Audit Office’s report, will be embedded in the new railway governance structure from 1 January 2017. I also refer to the rapporteur's good presentation of the unanimous position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e228	The railway must be a competitive transport alternative. The train will play an important role in the future – especially for commuter traffic around the major cities and for transport between parts of the country. This is the cross-political agreement. Then it is very important that we have the right tools, and that it is organised in such a way that we get as much money back. However, the national audit points to some key aspects related to the efficiency of the maintenance. Much of what the Riksrevision addresses is about the fact that over time there has been a great lag in the maintenance of the infrastructure. In recent years, a lot of money has been invested in the sector thanks to a deliberate prioritisation of the cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right. That's a proper priority. The railway sector must be given priority in order to meet the transport needs of the future. At the same time, we must ensure that the funds are used effectively. Unfortunately, we see that too little funding has led to the achievement of the operational stability objectives. The National Audit Office points out that the management and follow-up of the maintenance work has been too weak. Consumption for the maintenance of the railway has had a real growth of nearly 110 pst. in the period 2006 to 2014, and from 2006 to 2011 there was a negative trend for uptime and regularity. As of 2011, developments have been positive, but the level in 2014 was still lower than in 2006. So in most of this period, we see that the results have been below what the department's measure is. However, it is gratifying that the overall punctuality target has been achieved after 2012. It's going in the right direction. The arrows point in the right direction, but the Riksrevision findings must and must be taken seriously. It is apparent from the report that the management of the railway system has not provided the necessary management tools. Following the National Audit Office’s assessment, the railway undertaking’s management systems provide little information to ensure that the objectives of efficient resource use are met. It's not durable, and this is a system error in which it's a management responsibility to clean up. Of course, the challenge goes to the Department, but in particular this is a task for the Railway Agency, the new Railway NOR and the Railway Directorate. The establishment of good management systems to ensure efficient resource use should be a matter of course. The report from the Riksrevision shows that there is incomplete evidence of the state of the railway, on which the case-rapporteur was involved. Although local knowledge of the state is good, there are no registrations in BaneData, which weaken the possibility of overall governance. Nor does the railway station have a system to measure the productivity of the maintenance work, and precise information on the overall maintenance carried out is lacking. Clearly, measures to improve the management information for the maintenance work are not a priority. Furthermore, according to the National Audit Office’s assessment, the railway undertaking’s management has not prioritised the necessary measures for improvement and has not established a good enough culture of improvement in the organisation. At the same time, the department shows a lack of follow-up, according to the Riksrevision. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the Riksrevision's finding that the Ministry has little information on whether the appropriations are being used effectively. The Christian People's Party therefore subscribes to the assessments made by the Riksrevision here. At the same time, I would like to stress that the renewal processes currently under way in the railway sector, which are under way by the cooperation parties, are precisely aimed at getting more and better railways for each krona. After the change of government, the railway is prioritised through a historic initiative and through the work of the railway reform. The cooperation lots have increased the appropriations allocated to the railway by more than 50 pst. and for the first time in 10 years the appropriations are now reduced by maturity. Railway customers will gradually experience a better offer: increased predictability, better materiality, more departures and the purchase of more new sets of vehicles than planned. The eight years of red-green managed, the maintenance crew increased by 1 billion. kr per year. This came at the top of the system that already erased with old and degraded infrastructure. The accumulated backlog was more than 17.5 billion. kr when the non-socialist majority took over in 2013. Now the retreat is on its way down. The Christian People's Party wants the railway to have a central role in the overall transport offer organised by the public. To achieve this, the sector needs to be structured and organised in such a way as to maximise the return of society to the increased use of resources. That is why rail reform is also important. In combination with increased appropriations, we get a renewal that provides a more reliable railway and a better offer. However, this requires that the Riksrevision findings be taken seriously. The Council of State writes in its reply to the Riksrevision that the Railway Agency has for a long time prioritised its work on improving its own management systems. This applies, inter alia, to: the accounting systems, the systems for documentation and recording the state of the railway infrastructure, the data quality and the completion of the information. However, the Council of State emphasises that the tools are not sufficiently developed or run together, and that there is still some work to be done to complete, update and quality assurance the railway documentation. I therefore assume that the work on improving management systems will be followed up in governance dialogues in the future. Finally, it is of course the case, as the Ministry also points out in the written answer, that one of the main challenges in achieving the objectives of an operationally stable railway is the great lag behind the renewal of the railway infrastructure. Only in 2015 did sufficient resources be prioritised to reduce the maintenance set-off. Increased appropriations for the maintenance of the rail network have led to the achievement of largely punctuality targets in the years 2012-2015. In 2015, the Railway Agency reached the up-time target for the first time. We are on the right track, but I agree with the assessments and recommendations that the Riksrevision is making in its report. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's good review.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e258	I want to join the case rapporteur's investigation, but I have some comments in addition. First, it's probably a useful national audit report we're dealing with today, and the National Audit Office will once again have a reputation for gripping what we, as ombudsmen, feel is wrong in society. It is therefore particularly reassuring to see the operation of the Riksrevision. The theme is efficiency in the maintenance of the network. It's important. It is important for punctuality, and it is not least important for safety against accidents as well. At the same time, it is difficult because the improvement of maintenance in one area is related to other areas. We write in the setting that the operational stability of train traffic and the operation and maintenance of the railway are referred to as high priority areas in all state budgets over the last 15 years. And that's right. I want to nuance some of the previous speakers about what happened under the red-green government. I would claim that in the red-green government there was actually increased attention to maintenance. It marked the many people who had to take a bus because the maintenance lines were being upgraded during the periods of the year when there was less traffic. It imposed a heavy burden on political management to make that decision and say that now it is maintenance that we are not now able to deliver the rail services that we were supposed to. This was a work that was not least started under former government council Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, who had as clear philosophy to prioritise more of his framework for maintenance. But it's very demanding. I also agree with what the Riksrevision says, that it is critical that the results for operational stability have not been improved in total during the period, given the increase in the appropriations for maintenance. So I agree. I just want to stress that for most of us, the Railway Agency has been what we in the West Fossen call a heavy-duty organization. There has been a heavy-headed organisation – difficult to deliver the necessary results, and there is therefore a need for improvement. When writing in the report about the reorganization, it is essential and important that we talk about the necessary management tools. I am aware that it is a well-known mantra to ask for the necessary management tools, and there are many organisations that have management tools, and very comprehensive management tools, but there is no very clear connection between that management tool and the extent to which the organisation works efficiently and well. So I just want to say in relation to this case, that one shouldn't go too far in detail to measure what's going to happen. One has to measure results more, not how one reaches results – I think that’s essential. It is also linked to the fact that the most important thing in terms of management tools is to have an organisation, culture and management, where the first line takes much more responsibility. The first line takes responsibility and has authority. It is essential in this sector, which is one of the sectors that, in my opinion, has been the worst in delivering good results. Finally, a comment on what we are writing about is that we expect sufficient expertise in signalling systems in the railway system to be given priority in the future. There is one example of the need for self-sufficiency in the Railway Agency, or now in the new organisation. I would like to stress this: one must give greater priority to self-sufficiency. I would say so that the more a user of hired entrepreneurs, the greater the need for experienced people in their own staff to ensure the quality of the exercise from the leased companies. Therefore, there is a clear context in which, at the same time as one streamlines the organisation by entering the rental market, in that sense, it must have the necessary autonomy. This may have become more visible in the context of a lack of competence in signalling systems, which is a key factor for trains to move when they are going to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e277	Having a good railway is important for society, especially for commuters in and out of the big cities and for freight transport at long distances. There the railway can make a difference by being land-efficient, environmentally friendly and something that people experience as comfortable. It's important if you're going to change people's transport habits. That is why the government has made considerable efforts on the railways. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have greatly increased the appropriations. The investment budget is record high. We are betting on maintenance and renewal, so that the maturity, which has increased for many decades, now finally goes down. We make sure there are more departures, and we are buying more and more new trainsets. This is important in order to provide people with an offer where they think capacity is good, the frequency is high, and which gives them flexibility and predictability in everyday life – predictability to know that they can get to work or leisure whenever they want, and flexibility by being able to change the plans without being ‘stuck’ somewhere over a long period of time. Now, when we see a record traffic growth, it's a sign that you're succeeding. When a customer’s satisfaction with the NSB is at a record high level, it is also a sign that players are getting a better reputation when they can deliver better services. The National Audit Office's report is a useful reminder that things don't take care of themselves. It has to be money, it has to be directed, and it has to be well organized. When you don't deliver on it, you can talk as much as you want about a good railway, but it's not delivered. The railway works are criticised for not achieving all the objectives despite increased appropriations. It is true, as several have mentioned, that the appropriations increased under the previous government, but not enough for one to come up to a level that made the downturn. The appropriations were still so low that the maturity increased each year. And even if you got more money to run with a fire extinguisher, there wasn't enough money to make a person actually do preventive work. This made the short perspective the mastery. Then we might well criticise the Railway Agency for the results, but I believe that there is also a responsibility on the political decisions that were made, which meant that the Railway Agency was not really able to carry out the preventive work that someone is now asking for, because they had to replace components that broke together all the way. It is quite correct that there were more passengers before who experienced ‘train bus’ than it was in the years before it again, but there were still very many passengers who experienced that there was a bus for trains, not because of scheduled maintenance, but because the system collapsed. What is alarming is that despite the collapse of the system quite many times in the previous magnification period, a most varied development in railway maintenance. Some years actually went the appropriations from Stortinget down, not up. It's important to me that we solve these problems, and we've started a series of steps to do just that. We have greatly increased the appropriations. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, we have more than doubled the appropriations for renewal and maintenance of the railway since the government change. This makes it possible to have a completely different long-term strategic approach to the maintenance work to be done. This also allows the Railway Agency – and now Bane NOR – to use the money in a better way. They can have long plans, and then a person can dispose of resources in a better way. When it's not the short perspective that governs, but the long one, it's easier to drive effectively – given that you have good management. It is also important that you have good information about how the railway is. The systems put in place by the Railway Agency, over which the Directorate and Bane NOR came, were not good enough. They have spent a lot of time in recent years ensuring that their databases are more accurate and complete, and that things are recorded more accurately, precisely for knowledge not to be in the individual head, but to be in the institution through the information collection that is there. We've been stressing this from the department, but I'm also glad to see that the management of the railway works at that time was very clear that they understood the same challenges, and grabbed hold of them. Systematic, holistic and strategic governance has been pointed out by the National Audit Office. I totally agree, and I think we've done a lot to get in that direction. It happens through the etching dialogue, which we have had with the Railway Agency, and which we now have with the Directorate. There we have also been concerned that one must be involved and contribute to the development of a supplier market. If one does not have efficient and good operators in the supply market, it is difficult to get much back on the resources. Then again, it is about having long-term appropriations, which means that a few players who want to bet will invest in equipment that will increase their productivity on the supplier's side, precisely so that a person can cash in that benefit from the order side. Earlier, as the renewal budgets could drop by half a billion dollars from one year to another, we saw that several actors withdrew from the market, simply because the equipment they use is so specialised that they could not take the risk of operating with railway maintenance. We get other signals today, the investment will be bigger, simply because they know that the depreciation time can be handled more easily by having better contracts and activity. The railway reform is another part of following up. Making sure that our responsibilities are made clear, that things that have now been fragmented between the NSB, the Railway Agency and the Department are being brought together more clearly in one place, are also a way to better manage the situation. We have also been very clear that the Directorate of Railways, or at any rate Bane NOR, is going to be able to use the supplier market better than in the past. Instead of having as many one-year contracts as possible, and really too much firefighting, we want them to be able to have multi-annual contracts – typically four-year contracts – for operation and maintenance. It allows you to manage risk in a completely different way. The supplier market can invest in equipment in a completely different way and will generally improve its efficiency. Within the national transport plan and work on it, we have given priority to punctuality targets and uptime as very important. For travellers, it is not necessarily how much railway infrastructure you have, but how often the train is running and how safe it can be that the train arrives at the agreed time, which is the most important. That's why it's more important for us to be guided by punctuality targets and uptime than just to be guided by how many kilometers of infrastructure you have. Infrastructure error rates have to be lower, and we are starting to see the results – not because we say it politically, but simply because users comment on it outwards. I think it was today that NHO Logistics and Transport published a press release – as a finder on the NHO's pages – that pointed out that now the trend was reversed when it came to container cargo on the railway. After a steady decline from 2008, we are now on our way up again. 2016 was the best year of four years for container cargo. The interesting thing is when the NHO points to the likely causes of this — well, it is operational stability due to increased maintenance. Now they can point out that the trains go when it's agreed. Then the customers come back. For ASKO and others, the railway cannot be used if every 5 train sets are cancelled or severely delayed. Then the logistics chain doesn't work. When the type of reductions, the unforeseen settings, has been reduced by 80 pst. in a few years, it gives confidence. It is true that trains sometimes, simply because maintenance is planned, cannot go. But the nice thing is that ASKO and others say, you know what? That's fine with us, because we'll know about many months in advance. Then we can still have CargoNet or Green Cargo as a supplier, because we know they're handling those deviations. It's when the trains are standing and you get to know it after it really should have gone, that the crisis occurs. Then one can no longer ensure that the goods arrive at the customer at the agreed time. Many people who have used the railway before have gone over to a truck. I think that's unfortunate. I think, as I said, it's fun that the NHO points out that increased maintenance and the freight billion that the four bourgeois parties have ensured that they came in, now yield results. We're going to continue the work we've been doing. I think it is very important that there is a good, long-term framework around the railway reform we have now started. I think it is unfortunate when some parties give the impression that there is a reform they want to scrape and reverse, when the results already show that it has actually been reasonable. That one thinks that the organisation has been heavy-headed – yes, that may well be a reason why the results have been missing. But then one should certainly have shown results when one himself had the opportunity to change the systems. It didn't happen. In addition, when one is opposed to the reforms we have undertaken, I would say that there are incorrect answers to the problems raised by the Riksrevision. The job we're doing is far from over. There is still a lot of maturity that needs to be retrieved again, but we now see that there is light in the tunnel. Customers already notice this, but the job of replacing even more switches, overhead lines and the like has to go on for many years yet to get to the point that the railway has the confidence that both the travellers and the National Audit Office are looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e319	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e335	In this case, too, concerning the examination by the National Audit Office of ‘the work of the Governing Boards on strengthening safety in road tunnels’, the Committee is unanimous, and I thank the Committee for its good work on the matter. Because this too, like the previous case, is a matter that gives cause for concern and needs to be taken seriously. The National Audit Office has reviewed the safety of Norwegian road tunnels and has made the following main findings: ‘Risk analysis takes too little into account the specific risks of each tunnel. Multiple tunnels are missing fire drills. The security manager is not well documented. The Directorate of Road does not ensure that road users are adequately informed about safe behaviour in tunnels. The superior powers have weak control and follow-up. The Road Directorate has either not developed or updated central guidelines, guides and the quality system. The Road Directorate does not have enough information to follow up the administration of tunnels in line with laws and regulations. The upgrading of tunnels is very short.» To this end, the Committee concludes that the findings of the Riksrevision indicate that road tunnel safety in Norway needs to be significantly improved, and the Committee has a number of comments to make in the vote. Of course, it is very serious in a tunnel country such as Norway that the Riksrevision takes such a tough judgment on the safety of road users in very many of the country’s tunnels. That gives good cause for concern. The safety management is not well documented. Risk analyses do not address the specific conditions of each tunnel properly. The plan is often not available. And for several of the tunnels, fire drills are not even done. We know events with fire in tunnels, which tells us how very serious it can be. When information about safe behaviour in tunnels is not well known and rescue equipment is not in place in several places and tunnels are not upgraded, that means we have a great job ahead of us. Knowledge of how to deal with crisis situations must, of course, be communicated in a way that reaches road users. The condition of successful self-rescue must be present in all Norwegian tunnels so that road users can feel confident about what to do in the event of an incident. This means that drills must be carried out on a regular basis, both to identify the challenges of the individual tunnel and to ensure that each emergency is properly aware of the conditions in the tunnels for which they are responsible and the equipment for which they are to be used. Safety management is, in its nature, a continuous work and, in order to carry out its responsibilities, the Directorate of Roads must ensure that the State Road Service complies with relevant laws and regulations and provide good information on the conditions of the tunnel and that they are within the scope of law and regulation. It is serious that this has not been in place. The work of the Directorate-General for Roads on key guidelines, quality systems and guides, which will contribute to good tunnel safety on Norwegian roads, is also deficient, according to the National Audit Office. If safety requirements are to have the desired effect, they must be implemented and practised in the specific safety work. This means that out-of-date information on actual worst-case conditions may increase the risk associated with tunnels. In order for political leadership to govern departments politically and to control the implementation of decisions, the authorities must share information on their own work. This applies not least to the Road Directorate. Upgrading of tunnels has been very short, according to the National Audit Office, and the status of these upgrades will, according to the Ministry of Transport, become a theme in the work on the National Transport Plan. I hope the Minister can give us a little more insight into this work in his article already now. The Green Party is not a supporter of large and expensive road constructions at the expense of more and better environmentally friendly solutions, but we are as strong a supporter as all other parties of investing in safety on the roads and in the tunnels we have. In his reply to the Riksrevision on 1 July 2016, the Minister for Transport explained in detail how to follow the recommendations to the State Road Administration, as well as to the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for the fire and rescue services. I hope the Council of State can further inform Stortinget about what measures have already been implemented and what are further plans. Finally, a small explanation of vote in this and the previous case: the Green Party cannot vote because we do not fall under the dividend scheme, but we are therefore part of the unanimity behind this setting and the previous setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e388	I know a lot of people who are afraid to run in tunnels. I don't think it would have been any better if they had read this report from the National Audit Office that we are about to deal with now. If a googlelar ‘Oslofjord tunnel’ gets a lot of hits – 29000 in total and 1,280 in the new one. In 2016, the tunnel was closed every two days, according to Akershus Official Journal in October of the same year, due to accidents, exhaust gases, fires, heavy goods vehicles that had stopped in the ground, and other reasons. If a typed 'Goddvanga Tunnel' gets an equal number of matches. There has also been a serious fire situation. The tunnel is 11.4 km long, the second longest in the country. In the fire in 2013, 67 people were caught in the smoke, 28 people were injured in acute smoke, and 5 people were critically injured. In 2015, the State Emergency Commission for Transport presented a report in which both the Fire Service and the Road Service received strong criticism. The Commission considered that the security had failed at four points: Tunnel was not equipped with monitoring or counting equipment. No one thus had an overview of the number of running gear that was in the tunnel when it burned. Nor did one have information about the number of vehicles that were in the direction of a controlled smoke. No information was provided to allow road users to evacuate. Only those who were in the vicinity of the fire place or perceived the situation at an early stage were able to evacuate. Tunnel design and technical equipment were poorly designed for self-rescue. The road traffic centre immediately started fire ventilation, so that the smoke from the fire was ventilated 8.5 km towards Gudvangen, but the smoke thus blocked the only means of evacuation for the road users on the Gudvangen side of the fire. After this, a lot of resources was put in and repairs were made to the tunnel. It is very positive, but still the tunnel is not secure according to EU requirements. Therefore, I must say that I think it is very good that the Riksrevision has taken care of this with security in road tunnels. They find that on average there are 1,300 unwanted stops, 25 fires and 15 approaches to fire in the 1,130 Norwegian road tunnels. The National Audit Office has looked more closely at the addition of 41 tunnels which have been assessed as being at particular risk. The studies show that the risk analyses for a number of these do not address the specific circumstances and risks of the tunnel. Without good risk assessments, there will also not be a sufficient basis for determining the type of security measures to be implemented or for developing contingency and response plans for tunnels. In about half of the tunnels in the selection, there has been no fire drill in the last four years. This applies, for example: seven subsea tunnels, known through risk analysis and actual events to have far more fires than other tunnels. In order to strengthen the competence of fire and rescue, the Directorate of Roads says that since 2010 the State Road Administration has held a course at Runehamar test and course facilities, in addition to organising an annual seminar on fire and rescue in tunnels, in cooperation with the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness – they have done so since 2014. It's positive, but alone it's not good enough to give local fire and rescue services good enough competence on fire and rescue in tunnels. The National Audit, which I agree with here, suggests that fire drills in the individual tunnels are decisive for the fire and rescue services to learn how smoke is developing and how ventilation and other equipment works. If the local fire and rescue services do not have sufficient knowledge of these conditions in the tunnels, the risk of disaster is significantly increased in the event of an unwanted incident. There is a common perception among tunnel managers, security controllers, regions and fire and rescue services that more drills, including fire drills, are needed to enhance the competence of fire and rescue in tunnels. It is critical that the requirements for drills in the tunnel safety code are not complied with. Information for road users on conduct in tunnels, safety equipment and their use and self-rescue is not good enough. The investigation shows that, in too many cases, the State Road Service does not have sufficient follow-up of security. Central guidelines, guides and quality systems are either undesigned or not up-to-date and do not provide clear guidance for work on risk analysis and preparedness plans in the regions. Furthermore, the Road Directorate does not have enough information to follow up the administration of tunnels in line with laws and regulations. We note that the Ministry says that they have already begun the follow-up to the Riksrevision's recommendation, which is: ‘The Court of Auditors finds that the Ministry of Transport ensures that the Directorate of Road Transport: contribute to a systematic safety management of road tunnels by: update the professional security management framework develop a common emergency plan guide strengthening the follow-up to regional administration; In consultation with the emergency services, the competence for fire and rescue through training and fire drills is strengthened, especially in road tunnels at risk. further implement measures to enhance the knowledge of road users about self-rescue and safety equipment in road tunnels’;» I started by saying that many people feel enough a little anxiety when they run into tunnels, and that it doesn't get any less of this report. There may not be so much we can do about fear for people, but what we can do about, and that in the long run can dampen fear, is show that we take the certainty seriously, and that we are well-equipped when the accident is out. We know a lot about what to do. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is The ministry has told them to follow up. That's good, but preferably I thought it should have been done now, before we get more accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e450	There are very few countries in the world – if anything – that have more and longer road tunnels than we have in Norway. That is why tunnel safety is, of course, a very important topic that we need to prioritise in this country. But because of the many and long tunnels, of course, it is an extensive and demanding work, and it takes time to raise security to a higher level. In the approximately 1 130 Norwegian road tunnels, an average of 1 300 unwanted stops are recorded every year and an average of 25 fires and 15 approaches to fire are recorded. So unwanted events in road tunnels are happening, and we have to be foreordained to happen in the future. All tunnels longer than 500 metres shall have an up-to-date risk analysis and an updated contingency plan. This test indicates that not all tunnels currently have it. The study also shows that the requirement of the tunnel safety regulation to carry out drills at least every four years in all tunnels or in one tunnel nearby is not implemented for all tunnels. Exercise is important, both for customising exercises for the individual tunnel and not least for learning from the practice. We have too many examples from other areas that the same mistake is made multiple times. So we have to have a good system to avoid making the same mistake again. We have to learn from both good and bad experiences that a practice gives, so that we are best equipped when the real, unwanted events take place. Even though not everything is such an ideal way of thinking that it was, there is open light at the end of the tunnel. Many things go in the right direction. In 2016, work was started on improving driver card training, and safe running in tunnels will be part of the training. It's important. The upgrading work, which is in line with the requirements of the Tunnel Safety Regulation, will also improve the safety equipment in the tunnels and thus make self-rescue easier for road users. Several tunnels and several tunnels have also been installed. The development of nets is a solid boost to social security and preparedness in Norway; good communication can be entirely decisive in a crisis situation. Not least make a significant investment promise that Norwegian tunnels have become safer, and will also be safer in the future. I hope that the Council of State will come closer — the commitment made when it comes to raising tunnel investment for the future. Although many things go in the right direction, it is nevertheless important that the different actors take this report seriously, that the right grips be taken, so that the positive developments we have seen can continue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e463	This survey covers the period 2007 to 2015 and is based on a sample of 41 tunnels assessed as particularly at risk. The national audit has looked at upgrading the tunnels in relation to the tunnel regulations and has looked at the preparation and content of risk analyses and contingency plans and the conduct of exercises and inspections. The national audit has also assessed the information provided to road users on safety in tunnels. Unfortunately, the Riksrevision's findings show that the safety of Norwegian road tunnels is not good enough and is not in line with the standards set. According to the Riksrevision, the upgrading of tunnels has been very short. Some of the reasons for this are simply that it has taken too long before the work was started. I am pleased that the Ministry of Transport in the report states that the status of the upgrades, among others. will be the theme of work on the national transport plan. But, of course, it's not enough that the subject matter is referred to in NTP. Here, the National Audit Office's recommendations must be followed up point by point. It is therefore good that the Ministry has already begun to follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office. In particular, I would like to point out that it is necessary to have modern and upgraded safety equipment in the tunnels. At the same time, people need to know how to use this equipment in an emergency. As the National Audit Office points out, the use of investment in equipment depends on the knowledge of road users about the measures. In addition, road users should have knowledge of safe behaviour and self-storage. In this area, too, the report contains some proposals for measures that are worth looking at in the context of follow-up. The report mentions several elements that to date have not been high enough priority, sufficient training on fire and rescue and updated emergency plans. This is important to get in place. At the same time, tunnel safety is essentially a matter of prioritising funds for a safe physical infrastructure, as well as maintenance. It requires resources. With the National Audit Office's report as a basis, there are very good reasons to strengthen the work on tunnel safety in the future. It is good that the Riksrevision has taken care of this. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I can say that we agree with the assessments and recommendations made in the report.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e474	Road tunnel safety in Norway needs to be improved. As the Committee says, one must have concrete and high priorities, with adequate budgets. I believe that any responsible state council for the past 10-20 years has felt the responsibility it has for tunnel safety. There has been a question that has not been adequately answered by all responsible authorities, while at the same time one has had difficulties in obtaining the necessary implementation in the Ministry of Finance for the necessary appropriations. Cutting cords on new roads is often easier than securing safety in older tunnels. So it's very expensive. We say in the setting that we want to contribute to a systematic security management by updating the professional framework for the security management, as recommended by the National Audit Office. There has been a lot of attention around tunnels where there are many cars. Not least the Oslofjord tunnel has received a lot of attention – it's an important tunnel, with major security problems, so it's right that it gets it. But I would also like to point out the need for attention to be paid to the many and narrow tunnels in the West, tunnels that have been built decades back in time, which have major racial problems, and which are of such a standard — for example. in the municipality of Waksdal, on the way up to the Eksinge Valley, anyone will be able to find that the tunnels are so narrow that normal, large buses cannot drive there – that there will be a special offer on the bus routes to drive there due to the design of the tunnels. I want to say that a life is as much worth all over the country. I think there needs to be more attention to the small tunnels to the pig-grown struts around, because there it is very, very much left behind. There are bad tunnels, there are narrow tunnels, there is a lot of ice in the tunnels. At all, there is a knowledge of running in those tunnels that far exceed what a common resident in the central struts is subject to. So I hope the Council of State will take into account that tunnel protection will apply to all tunnels, with the necessary quality, so that we get safe conditions, sail if it does not run so many cars every day in many tunnels – but the tunnels are absolutely vital to the community they are serving.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e487	It shall be safe to travel in the country. Whether it's at sea, in the air, on the rails or on the asphalt, we're going to strive to ensure that the risk of accidents is as low as possible, and that the consequence of accidents is safe for human lives. We're not there today, but we're still going to pursue that direction. That's true on the roads, normally, but I think the area where we like to feel the most helpless if the accident happens is in tunnels. I have been in several tunnels where accidents have occurred – the Gudvanga tunnel, among others. Just the feeling when you're standing in there without any light that works, and the thought of how much smoke it can be there, makes you feel like you can get a fear of death from less. Facilitating people to be able to save themselves if accidents occur is very important. There's a lot that needs to be done. It's about how we design the tunnels when we build new ones, it's about how we repair the road tunnels we already have, it's about vehicles, and it's about knowledge and information to road users. We are one of the countries in the world with most tunnels. Making sure that they are safe is an important task for me, as it has been an important task for the Storting and for my predecessors. The findings that the Riksrevision points out in the report on the studies from 2007 to 2015 are serious, and it is important that we deal with them. I mean, we're doing a lot of this. That's why I think the next time the Riksrevision looks at this, it's going to come to a different conclusion. But it's important that we have people who see us in the cards, both to reveal things that are wrong, and to remind us that things can get better. There is work to update guidelines and process descriptions on the quality systems of the tunnels. The work done by the National Audit Office is being taken into account in our work. The state road authority will check out contingency plans that have expired and will ensure that these are revised. Work is in progress on a new contingency plan template, which is now under test in two regions, and efforts are being made to improve the management dialogue between the Road Directorate and the regions and to integrate safety management into the tunnels. Road transport services work in the field of fire protection, and the Directorate of Roads has established a National Working Party on Fire Protection and Fire Safety Management. We in the department have met this group, and we have met with the State's disaster commission on transport and representatives of the fire service to get a sense of whether the cooperation that is needed is working, whether the cooperation between the departments is good enough, and whether there are some tools that we should consider that are not used today. In the work carried out through the Road Directorate, provision shall be made for the exchange of experience, ensuring the best possible level of practice between regions, assisting in the implementation of new legislation and ensuring that there is a good practice, follow-up of deviations, follow-up of event records, develop planning, develop systems and procedures and arrange fire protection management courses, tunnel seminar courses for fire services and gatherings for fire protection managers in the establishment. These are measures which are established and which are well in line with the recommendations of the Riksrevision. We have to make sure that road users are better aware of the assumptions underlying self-rescue in road tunnels. One is to make sure that it is a better part of traffic training. At the same time, we must remind all those who have had a driving licence for a long time, how this is. Then it's always a challenge with tourists traveling on Norwegian roads, to make sure that they are also the best prepared if the accident happens. It's attractive to be a tourist in large natural terrain, but there's also a lot of tunnels. Therefore, information campaigns targeting both established drivers in Norway and the random car tourist from abroad are important. Several have pointed out the work done on the tunnel upgrade. It's also very important. It's about making sure that there's backup power and light, that there's a reflex in remarking, that things just work in line with normal and modern expectations and demands. The tunnel safety regulation underlies this, but I believe that independently of the EU directive this will be necessary and important to do. I still think it is a bit strange to hear from the Workers' Party that this work should have already been done by the government. I remember this directive being adopted in the EU in 2006 – I think it was. There was very little happening in Norway in the following years, in fact, allocations to tunnel safety — in so far as it was maintenance and renewal — went down from 2012 to 2013 and 2014, in the red-green budget. Today's budget is almost $2.50. kr, it was about 600 million. kr at the change of government. We're all going to work on this together, but when a person asks for results when he has not shown himself willing to prioritize it, I think the sender of that message should see a little bit more in his own mirror. It is also a bit strange to hear that all government councils have wanted to do this, but that the Ministry of Finance has stopped it. It is not the Ministry of Finance that governs the government; it is the government that governs the Ministry of Finance. I am very pleased to have a Prime Minister and a finance minister who have joined forces to take control of the Ministry of Finance and ensure that the appropriations are more than quadrupled after the government change. That was obviously what was needed, if there was money on it in this area. But we shall not let the political debate diminish the importance of what the Riksrevision has planned. There are many things that need to be better, both in terms of money, and in terms of the way a worker works. That's what we're doing, and we're going to include the recordings that the Riksrevision has given us, in a very good way in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e512	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e528	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e881	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e891	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e932	Case No. 4 is the second time the law has been passed. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-09.ana.ud504e984	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
