ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e113	The called alternate of the Nordland County, Tone-Helen Toften, now takes the seat. Mr Freddy de Ruiter applied for welfare leave on Tuesday 20 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Line Kysnes Vennesland, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e138	Line Kisses Vennesland is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Grøvan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e145	On behalf of the representatives of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Olaug Bollestad, Geir Tuskedal, Anders Tyvand and myself, I am delighted to propose safer and safer road traffic using alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e150	The representative, Mr Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e155	On behalf of the major representatives of Hadia Tajik, Lene Vågslid, Jorodd Asphjell and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a representative to strengthen the legal security of ordinary people and to counteract increased differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e160	The representative of Pál Farstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e165	On behalf of the representative Iselin Nybø and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to raise the status of craftsmanship in painting and masonry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e170	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e178	The President proposes the election of two presidents for the Stortinget meetings today and tomorrow – and considers it adopted. The President will propose Sverre Myrli and Øyvind Halleraker. – Other proposals are not available, and Sverre Myrli and Øyvind Halleraker are unanimously elected as presidents of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e200	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e209	The case spokesman Keshvari is on the road in the traffic, I have been told, so I will say some words on behalf of him. We are pleased that all four cooperation parties are some on a review of the principles and guidelines for cooperation between the state and private actors, with the aim of reducing public activity in well-functioning private, commercial markets. The review should be ready for next year. The representative proposal from the Left, which we are now considering, forms the basis for this decision and helps to illustrate an important and under-communicated issue. One of the reasons for the growth we see in the public sector is that the state is taking on a large scale tasks where there is a well-functioning market and strong, established professional environment outside the state. Manipulation of tasks is done by new applications and projects and partly by insourcing tasks where the market has previously solved the task. Each of these tasks may seem reliable, but the sum, in the view of the majority of the Committee, is an increasing problem. I am pleased that we have a government, supported by the Christian People's Party and the Left, which in this period has largely focused on simplification, efficiency and red tape. Simplification of private business bureaucracy will continue. Today's decision will be an important contribution in that context. Private business must focus as much as possible on productivity and, as much as possible, on authority reporting. It is important that the services provided to the inhabitants maintain a high quality, just as they operate the services. Competition in the market is better able to promote quality, innovation and efficient operation than public monopolies. Such monopolies should be able to be established underpinned by specific social conditions. In order to avoid undesirable monopolistic industries, it is therefore necessary to have a level playing field for public and private operators. In the current ageing period, neutral VAT has been introduced in the country, it has been published as a guide for increased preferences in the municipal sector and established a national strategy for the use of cloud services, and the public procurement legislation is considerably simplified. The majority in the Committee will press for new reforms in the same direction. Unfortunately, there are now several places where the development is countered locally by other pluralities of local municipal government and city government. For example, in the city we are now, the capital of the country, the majority have decided to go in the opposite direction by letting those who run private hospitals lose contracts. The same is true in the nursery sector. The hold behind this — both hold and rhetoric — is negative for the development of the country. In addition, one of the Committee's positions will see that the Committee shares the traditional right-left axis, where the majority – the Party of Government and the Christian People's Party and the Left – are united. The others might want to do something for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e228	The public sector is the pillar of the Norwegian model. The public sector and the pillar it is make Norway one of the world’s best countries to live in. We in the Workers' Party believe that public tasks financed by taxes and charges or user payments should, as a general rule, be carried out by the public. This ensures democratic governance and development of key societal areas. We believe that there is little evidence to suggest to the representatives that in the absence of competition, the State – the public – does not have the capacity to drive innovation in its areas of activity. On the contrary, by its size, knowledge base and purchasing power, the State is an initiator of innovation in both new and existing industries and an active renewer of community services. Many major public acquisitions are linked to the development and operation of IT systems. In the future, if public authorities are to have real control over their own systems, it is essential not to link unilaterally to larger suppliers and to assess which systems should operate under their own control. We also point out that, in some areas, the country competes with the private sector to attract skilled labour, especially in the field of IT. It is therefore essential that the conditions of employment in the State sector are sufficiently good to enable the State to maintain a stable workforce. We also believe that it is up to political authorities to determine which areas of society should be subject to public governance and authority. The practical implementation of the proposal will result in a significant additional cost to consultants, as well as a significant loss of operational efficiency in the commissioning of assignments and subsequent assessments. We believe that the proposal bears the mark of wanting to privatize the public sector on the basis of an ideological conviction. We also show in the notes that the country's involvement in business has been historically justified in several different respects. Economic, sectoral, regional and employment policies have been important factors. In addition, distributional considerations have often been decisive. These are considerations which, in different ways and in different areas, will remain in force in the future. I think this is the last time I'm standing on this pulpit. I've been allowed to be in this amazing house for 12 years. I want to say a thousand thanks to those who have made life easier. It's all the ones that look out for, the ones that make plants become green by themselves, the ones that just fix the EDB, the ones that wash the floors, the ones that arrange flights, the ones that offer amazing food, and I can even buy pantyhose here. I would like to thank good colleagues and committee secretaries, who make life easier – and referees, who write better than I can say for myself. A thousand, a thousand thanks for twelve years here on the Stortinget!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e251	And thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e256	Are there any people who doubt that the restaurant offer in our country would be less exciting if all the restaurants had been owned by the state and run by government staff, or who do not want to maintain a free choice of competing dentists and fast doctors? No matter who finances the purchase of products and services, there are important arguments for limiting public activity in well-functioning commercial markets, not least in societies with a large and growing public sector, such as Scandinavia. Let me mention some points: Quality: Services improve when suppliers have to meet customers on a daily basis in a market and they know that lack of quality will result in job losses and reduced profits. Innovation: There is little reason for entrepreneurs and social entrepreneurs to spend time and money on innovation if they know that they are stopped by public decisions not to use commercial suppliers anyway. Oslo under red-green rule can be an example of how the creativity of the population is not fully exploited. Control: no one is good inspectors by itself. In public procurement, it is scarcely disputeable that it is easier to get rid of private suppliers than with private organisations that do not deliver well enough. Economy: All monopolies will deliver sooner or later more expensive and worse than in a competitive situation. This will weaken Norway’s competitiveness over time and thus the ability to further develop our welfare services. Public authorities should strengthen competition through good framework conditions, not weaken it by themselves becoming suppliers in areas where this is not necessary. That Works believes Municipality-Norway can save 4 billion. kr to allow private to provide more home services, and that a study by Agenda Kaupang suggests that the public has saved more than 2 billion. kr per year using private kindergartens are interesting indications. In addition, there is reason to lift a warning finger in the development of democracy in a society where a large majority depend on monthly payments from the state. Today, well over half of the country’s population depends entirely or partly on monthly payments from the public sector. Less activity in functioning markets will also give the public better time to operate its own core business. Let me make it clear that these are system arguments. There is no reason to believe or claim that there is a difference in quality or effort, whether you work in the private sector or in the public sector. Does not the public have a role in influencing the functioning of commercial markets? Yes, absolutely — through framework conditions, through procurement, and not least through the financing of very important welfare services. This is a question where the non-socialist parties think fundamentally differently than the socialists. That's why we don't need a crystal ball to know that the proposal adopted today by the four non-socialist parties will be put in the reverse drawer by a government change. It doesn't deserve Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e286	My party is probably blessed with a basically relaxed attitude on this issue, because we don't have a dogmatic attitude that the state and the public apparatus should solve as much as possible. Nor do we have a dogmatic approach that as much as possible must be solved by the private. Nevertheless, we are in favour of the proposal, because we see that a debate and a practical and ideological rise in the border between what is to be solved by the state and what is to be resolved by the private is important. In the balance between system thinking, ideology and the free market, we believe that there must be a solution between them. For the Christian People's Party, however, it is very important to stress – and here we have a clear principle – that private, ideal service providers should not get in trouble between the commercial and the public. We share the opinion of the Council of State that it may be useful to wait for the working group already in the process of looking at this before we reduce a heavy and resource-intensive public sample. That is why we are pleased with the rewording made by the majority of the Committee on the original proposal from the Left, and we support the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e295	The representatives of the Left want to reduce public activity in what they call ‘good-functioning commercial markets’. I can agree with the proposers that it is not an end in itself that all public services should be provided by public-run enterprises – neither is it today, regardless of who controls. The centre party is not dogmatic in terms of cooperation with private providers in a number of areas of public service production, but we do not see the outsourcing of welfare services as an objective. On the contrary, we believe that the school, health and care services financed by taxes and taxes should, as a general rule, be run by the state and the municipalities – preferably supplemented by non-profit actors. In my view, the rapporteurs and the majority of the Committees have an excessively dogmatic and ideological approach to this by their comments. Clearly, reducing public activity is an objective in itself. It states that one has a fundamental belief that competition and market organisation provide better services. I can't see that the experience we have with competitive outsourcing provides such an answer. On the contrary, it often gets worse and more expensive. One of the problems with the outsourcing of competition is that it entails additional costs. It costs to build up the competence to tender and to check that the supplies given are in conformity with the contracts concluded. Privatisation of publicly funded tasks also means that the public must pay for the profits that suppliers derive from their activities. The benefits of privatisation are not so easy to find in the accounts, either the economics or the quality and user satisfaction. After all, we see that the majority of the right-hand-driven municipalities too largely adhere to publicly driven welfare services. Finally, let me refer to our comments – as we are with the Workers' Party and SV – on the public purchasing. The public sector is a big builder. In this area, there are mostly private suppliers producing. As a contracting entity, it is the responsibility of the State and local authorities to provide leadership. We have a way to go before we become good enough as sponsors to make demands that address environmentally friendly solutions and take into account the professional development of labour through the use of apprentices. One of the really big construction projects in the next decade is the government quarter. Here we have proposed that the tender criteria and contracts should be designed so that Norwegian businesses can participate in a competitive manner. It is important that we develop the public sector, both state and local authorities, to become more competent providers and orderers of services. We must make demands on efficiency, quality and environmental considerations. At that time, resources should be used other than to set up another public body to reduce public activity. We don't need that sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e310	The Government and the Left have agreed on a joint proposal to review the role of the State in different private markets. The aim of that review is to see whether there are any tasks the State should entrust to private actors. Not surprisingly, the proposal is not supported by the Left Workers’ Party, SV or the Centre’s – despite the fact that six out of ten players asked in Abelia’s ‘Competition on equal terms’ study believe that the State is directly in competition with their own activities. Much of what we do in public activities, especially in the municipal sector, is within school and education. It must be possible to have more private actors on the road, and the State can, and should, in several cases, withdraw from several of the fields of action. We know that private actors often experience the state as a tough competitor. Six out of ten members of Abelia believe that the role of the State has resulted in the loss of private contracts. In Norway, we should bring forward private actors who want to fight social challenges and not compete with government instruments. Therefore, citizens consider it important to review the role of the State in the markets where there are private operators capable of delivering the same product. The left-hand side of Norwegian policy does not agree with this reform idea. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV state that, by its size, knowledge base and purchasing power, the state is an initiator of innovation. There is a dividing line between the civil and the left. We support innovation in the private sector, from those who dare to stand up to their own ideas, who create their own and others' jobs through faith in their own products. The state has an important role to play, but innovation comes from the private sector rather than from the public sector. Otherwise, the left-hand side does not seem concerned that a continued increase in public tasks will not be sustainable in the coming years. Here again, there is a dividing line between the cooperation parties and the left. We believe that we have a responsibility to create a sustainability in the state budget that does not put our children and grandchildren in an economically irresponsible situation in the future. Civilian parties all opt for a reform agenda aimed at reducing public expenditure through digitisation and at entrusting tasks to private actors where they have the same good, if not better, prerequisites for carrying out these tasks. A common view that society is built from below and up and not above and below lies at the root of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e325	If the proposers and the majority had separated what are welfare, care and training tasks, and what are business activities, I think we could have discussed this matter in a much more constructive way. Because it's not like this, as the representative of Skkelstad says, that a consultant who costs the trip is more sustainable than an employee economist, lawyer or public sector engineer. It's not like that. It's not that a privately run nursing home is value creation, while a publicly operated health home is just expenditure. This is an interaction. But for SV, it is a fundamental matter that we believe that the money we grant, for example. to public welfare, it shall do so. Then it's important that the public is a good buyer, and then you have to have a high level of competence. You can't be the happy amateurs' meeting with professionals. And – President – I guess we have an example in our presence that shows that things are going terribly wrong. So the public must have competence seams when, for example, they are. shall purchase construction works. This is also the case in the development of ICT by public authorities. And the example we've had in the health sector now, which shows that you don't have enough competence in the water, but that puts this out, helps you not develop Norwegian business and the ICT industry, and it also puts patient information and sensitive information at risk. Another example may be government-built – last week I received a response from the Council of State, Sanner, who is in the Chamber, that they have not been asked to use wood in the construction and building construction. It could have been as Innovation Norway says in its own documents, that it could have been one of the most important development projects for the Norwegian wood industry. You can't decide it, but you can decide that you want it. The public sector, with its large purchasing power, then contributes to the development of Norwegian business. And we should do that, in ICT, in the construction industry and in other industries where it's natural to cooperate closely with the private sector. For those areas where the right side has some kind of ideological ‘hang up’ on the fact that the private do better than the public, SV believes that neither the elderly nor the children in child protection deserve the money we give for these purposes to go to profit in private enterprises. On the contrary, they should go to maintain a good offer for these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e334	I am pleased that the majority have gathered on a joint proposal that can provide a good basis for the effective use of our common resources. That's what this question is about. It's about how we, as politicians, use the community's resources, and I'm glad that the cooperation parties have come together on a proposal that can facilitate more efficient use of funds. It will be able to release funds that can be used for important welfare initiatives, rather than using the monopoly power for less efficient use of public resources. I am also pleased that we have now put in place tools to enable us to use the public purchasing power more fully to promote innovation in the private sector, by putting in place both innovative purchases and innovation partnerships. The state makes purchases for hundreds of billions every year. It is important that we also use these funds to promote more innovation in the private sector. To take a simple example: when it comes to buying light, you don't have to buy bulbs and fluorescent lamps when you can order light, and then you promote innovation in the private sector. We have also put in place neutral VAT, which means that one of the barriers to effective competition has been removed, and we are creating more open data sources, which also open up to re-use, innovation and jobs in the private sector. I'm recording that someone is trying to make this an ideological struggle. What the cooperative parties here are doing is to facilitate equal competition. It is a pragmatic approach that removes barriers to competition and facilitates a level playing field between private and public authorities, while the left-hand side dogmatically insists that as much as possible be done within the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e346	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e351	We have heard and seen many examples earlier this week that the Right is behind the Norwegian model when Norway is named the world's best country to live in, while when they come to the Stortinget, they will have a different direction with more market governance at the expense of elected power. An active state and a large public sector are the pillars of the Norwegian model, as I said in my post. Then I can ask the Council of State how he thinks that Norwegian supplier industry, Stavanger as an oil town, Norwegian farming industry, etc. had appeared if the government had not interfered, made demands and set up with capital and money for development in major stages.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e358	I can't see that there's any contradiction or disagreement at this point. We have a good balance between the public and private sectors. What this debate is about, and what we are discussing today, is whether to promote public monopoly power or to facilitate competition in well-functioning commercial markets. It will promote innovation, it will contribute to more profitable private jobs – it is good for Stavanger, it is good for Rogaland, it is good for the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e363	The majority of the Committee notes that they will stress the importance of completing the pension reform. I understand that it means that the public pension system should be adapted to what has been done for the private sector. In that case, it would result in a deterioration in the pension rights of government employees. What kind of work is going on by the government to change the current government pension scheme? And is the objective that the rules introduced on the private side also apply to public servants?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e368	We have a good pension system in Norway, and the government is based on the pension reform and the broad consensus that has existed between the parties on the Stortinget. With regard to the further follow-up of the pension system, it is a responsibility of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e375	The way in which we as the authorities make demands is clearly involved in developing forward-looking solutions that can benefit Norwegian business. In the field of ICT, there have been major challenges in winter to the procurement of such services by health businesses. The industry has warned against what has been done, namely that there is not enough public sector competence to deal with these kinds of purchases in a way that is sure that patient information is not compromised, and that by not having more well-developed cooperation with the Norwegian ICT environment, it is also not guaranteed to build up that competence in the Norwegian companies. Can the State Council responsible for ICT say how to achieve these two things — both sufficient skills on the buyer side and cooperation with industry in the field of ICT?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e384	As regards information security and privacy, I believe that there are no compromise options. There we have to be uncompromising, we have to safeguard information security, we have to safeguard privacy. So we know that it's been committed incorrectly, it has to be corrected. There I think it is important that we are very clear. But otherwise, the ICT area is an area that facilitates cooperation with the private sector, where we have to make sure that the state uses the private sector where there are no particular reasons why public authorities should do it themselves. I would like to mention an example of this: in the case of a new platform for digital construction applications, several private companies have been pre-qualified to compete in this. I think that's the right way to go. Instead of public development of all services themselves, we need to use the market where the market works well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e389	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e396	Thanks to the proposers, who rightly point out that a major reason for growth in the public sector is that the state is taking on tasks where good solutions and a well-functioning market already exist. By competing against private business with tax payer-funded solutions, the State is at risk of suffocating innovation and weakening Norwegian competitiveness. Not only are resources and money channelled away from the core public tasks, which can help to weaken them, but budgets also go hand in hand with more projects and more tasks. This is one of many reasons why I'm too tax-free, because it can contribute to better priorities and focus on central government tasks. When the State engages in direct competition with private individuals, competition in the market is weakened, while at the same time missing out on jobs that contribute to the State budget. When public activities with taxpayers’ money develop services that are already or could be solved by private individuals, the possibilities of non-profit and commercial service development are being stepped up. This applies to everything from cardboard apps to public hospitals providing occupational health services with taxpayers’ money. Private actors can never compete with budgets financed by taxpayers. After all, welfare professionals must be the public enterprises that can understate private operators at price, because taxpayers pay for rent and administrative costs. Founders and entrepreneurs depend on making people voluntarily use their products and services. It also means that they have a lot of focus on the user orientation of the solutions. In addition, products and services in the private sector are usually paid by several customers, leading to lower operating costs per customer because of multiple parts of the bill. At the same time, more revenues for the same product provide more opportunities for innovation and further development, which benefit both new and old customers. In the public sector, all developments have a cost, a cost that is not limited by users’ willingness to pay, as taxpayers have no choice. That is why I am very pleased that the government has set up a sample to look at this and develop guidelines for public enterprises. I started by saying that the proposers are quite right in saying that one reason for the growth of the public sector is that the government is taking on tasks where there are already good solutions. But I would like to remind them that another important and sub-communicated reason for the growth is the lack of transformation and organisation. So the next time it's proposed to reduce 288 municipal tax offices to the 27 regional offices the tax office thinks can do the same job, I expect full support. Together, we can make Norway a country where the competitive private sector finances an efficient and organised public sector through moderate taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e411	It is a little strange to listen to representatives from the Center Party and SV, who have an out-of-date view of private operators. Because if we look at the reality, especially in those municipalities where there has been competitive outsourcing, and where there is room for private actors, the results are very clear. Oslo Municipality has the best collective solutions in the country; it has managed to meet most of the population growth with collective solutions. And how did you do that? Well, it's by professionalizing and postponing competition. The competition of buses alone saves between 80 and 100 million. kr every year, which goes back to better collective services for the inhabitants. Router estimates that a competitive outsourcing of the T-Bahn operation would provide savings up to half a billion dollars a year. What happens when the Red City Council takes over and wants to reverse and take away from the private possibility to operate nursing homes that are well-run? The cost goes up by between 50 and 60 million. kr. And the worst thing is not that it's more expensive for taxpayers to run these services. The worst thing is that the services provided are exactly those that have the most satisfied users. It's an aspect that's never part of the debate when you debate with people on the left. Tax payers and users and how they perceive the offer should be the most important thing. The active use of competitive outsourcing not only provides cheaper services, it also provides proper services, and it is possible to modify and phase out suppliers that do not deliver according to what has been ordered. You can't argue as if those experiences don't exist. You can't ignore the fact that the most popular kindergartens, the ones that users are most satisfied with, are actually run by private actors, and it doesn't cost taxpayers any more. It says everything about the public operation of services when private individuals are able to deliver better services at a much cheaper price, and at the top of it all takes dividends. It says something about how effective they are to deliver solutions. Therefore, we should facilitate the entry of more private individuals into the market and the provision of services that are required and needed by citizens for a more reasonable amount of money, while creating values in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e420	Now we heard another post that was full of myths about user studies, quality, etc. who do not vote. It was even a representative who does not know that all the states in the country have put out public transport. That's it. It is very strange that a party that is in favour of reducing taxes and taxes, to be for people to pay taxes, so that a few people will make a lot of money from child protection and care for the elderly, for example. That's SV against. Then we believe that we should rather strengthen the offer and the quality, and that those who work there should have a pension that will make it possible to live on when they get old. I'm just recording that the Progress Party doesn't care about it. This issue is also about a interface between public and private cooperation, and has been doing so for a long time – it is the responsibility of SV, and on the contrary we believe that it should be strengthened – where we demand that business evolve, for example. as regards energy, climate and environment and universal design. It is very important that we make those demands and follow them up, because then business develops. But if you're going to make those demands, you have to have competence seagoing, and I haven't heard anyone from the bourgeois since pick up today. It's incredibly important that if you, for example, to buy a building, one must have the competence to buy a building. If you are going to buy ICT services, you have to have the skills to buy ICT services. If you run the public sector, you have a lot of legal obligations, and you have to have legal competence. Paying three times for consultants and saying it's okay and profitable, while employing people in the public sector, building up and owning that competence on behalf of the population and the community, as well as being a cost – it can't be like that, because it intersects. You know that from countless examples where the public has bought the cats in the bag, or where you haven't made sure that it's the quality that you have to expect and that you've demanded in the first place. This means that it is not possible to refer to building up public sector competences in these areas as something completely unnecessary, because it is absolutely necessary to get the good interaction with a professional private sector on the purchase of services and goods. Cooperation in these areas is good. SV has made several proposals on this subject, including: in the case of the Government Quartet. It is a pity that we are not now using this opportunity to develop the Norwegian wood industry and show that Norway is a woodland, and that there are products that would have needed such a large project in order to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e436	It's an interesting view to witness that an SV representative is talking about mythical attitudes in politics, because there's someone who's spread myths and tried to scare the population and hasn't quite figured out what the competition is, it's SV. They started by saying that the outsourcing contributes to the thickest wallet that gets the best services, which is proven to be wrong. Services shall be provided to citizens through tax financing. It's just a question of how to organise it, the responsibility is still with the politicians. Hospitals run by private and non-profits, and kindergartens run by private and non-profits, do not cost users any more. When it comes to knowledge that all states are doing it, I haven't said it's unique to Oslo. I referred to a concrete example of how many $10 million you save on it, dollars that go back to the service. In the case of research, let me read from the last: ‘The Education Directorate has asked parents throughout the country how happy they are with their kindergartens, and 86,000 have responded to the survey. The results show that parents in private kindergartens are somewhat more satisfied than parents in municipal kindergartens.’ And then the representative stands at Andersen and says that I refer to user studies and other things that are myth-based! We also have similar examinations for nursing homes, and the picture is the same there. Private nursing homes are somewhat more innovative. Employees are satisfied, sick leave is lower, and those who use the service are more satisfied – this is completely without costing users anything more. And those who provide these services make it more reasonable for society, they do it better for the users, and at the top of it all, they can take out a profit that goes back to other value creation. Therefore, competitive outsourcing is necessary and healthy, primarily for the benefit of users, taxpayers and also the value creation of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e454	This is a debate that we sometimes take, but too rarely. No, the Labour Party doesn't have any obsessive ideology on this. I think the government has, because the government statement believes that there is no difference between producing vulnerable welfare services and producing shoes. In my opinion, there's a very big difference. I want to go to the sector where we have the most vulnerable users and patients – in the care of the elderly. What do we know there? We have international research on it. When I say international, I also mean Nordic. There is the following: where large commercial groups take over care of the elderly — and that is usually what happens — the quality goes down over time. And it won't be cheaper. The number of lower leg ulcers has been measured all the way into the bone of the "basic" for quality. Large surveys – we had a large conference in Oslo in 2012 – just show this. So the question is, what about the patients -- are they the most satisfied with the commercial or the private? There are a lot of people working in private hospitals, for example, doing a great job, and there's too many patients every reason to be satisfied with it. But those user surveys are, for example: has done so in Oslo – and also in Sweden – has a response rate of 12–13–14 pst., 12 pst! These are very vulnerable users, who are difficult to talk to in these user surveys. But where they have user surveys, where you measure a lot of things – related, those who receive services – are ideally, public and private at times about the same, sometimes with a little difference. However, user surveys asking the most vulnerable are difficult, because the response rate is so low. This, too, the scientists can tell us. That's why I think you have to go in and ask: do the most vulnerable services have the characteristics of the market? In the care of the elderly there are 80–85 pst. That goes to pay and retirement, and we know that pay and retirement are going to be crucial in the future, because we're going to have a shortage of people. I want to see the health professionals who think it's very hard to lose hundreds of thousands of pensioners because their business is privatized. These are low-paid women, and I think we need to think little about the sustainability of the care for the elderly in the future. If we do that, we have to think about decent pay and pension conditions, so that we get young people to enter these professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e467	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e472	When this proposal came to the table, I thought the Left felt that we should now look at the areas where it is natural for the public sector to cooperate with the private sector, where there is more business activity involved. I now understand, as a result of the debate, that it is not. It is a majority who want to privatise or expose public welfare to competition. It does not want SV, but we want good cooperation between the public sector and private in the development of areas where private markets are natural. I still have the pleasure of hearing someone here problematize a little that the public actually has to have the competence to make these purchases. Nor does anyone have any problem with the fact that the tax money we pay is not to be used for services, better care for the elderly and better child protection, for example. But we're going to keep paying, so some of these big, international investors are going to be even richer. I don't think so, and SV is good use of money. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e479	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e484	One turns the debate where one wants it, and it is clear that it is now done again by the left side of Norwegian policy. It has never been considered by the Left as a major privatisation of welfare services. But let me trouble myself a little bit about what the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen brought up here: it is surprising if the Workers' Party has now begun to realize that there is a lack of competence in primary care, and that now, after we have adopted the municipal reform, it suddenly emerges. The working party was not among the most for it. There is no doubt that we labor quite a lot within that one can call special care, especially in the primary municipalities and not least in the small municipalities. It is also mostly the small municipalities that outsource a lot of their special care. It is then a little surprising that one comes after and has found out that we need to have a level of competence within that as well. The left is well pleased that we got the backing of both the Christian People's Party and the government parties so that we could give a level of competence to the merged municipalities to begin with. But it's a little surprising that you don't see the context, because in many of the smallest municipalities, there is today a large-scale use of temporary employment agencies to meet the needs of care, because there is a lack of competence. I will not dwell too much on it, but I think it was a necessity when this was recorded. Our approach to this has been to look at sectors other than the care sector and the school. In my work – also as a municipal politician and in the work I have had such a character – it has always been so that another type of service in the care sector would be a supplement in that case. However, there is no doubt that, in terms of purchasing skills and related competences, there is much to be gained from releasing to other actors also in the public sector, especially in the municipal sector. But this proposal is definitely not meant to be what the representatives Tove Karoline Knutsen and Karin Andersen are trying to do. It is not a proposal for large-scale privatisation of the care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e493	It was good to hear the representative Skelstad now. I also didn't realize that this proposal was primarily about the vulnerable welfare areas, but it was the representative Keshvari who made me take the floor, who started talking about this, and because the government has this in its government platform, I thought it was time to take the floor. I fully agree with Mr Skkelstad that in many areas this is a very interesting debate, which we absolutely must take, and where he has many important points. But I also want to give him a little answer to that with competence. What happened during the red-green government was that we got over 22,000 more annual jobs in the care and care sector in the municipalities, of which over 80 pst. had relevant education. It stands firm, and it's important. According to the Ministry and the SSB figures, the annual growth in care and care is halved under this government. It's the Department of the Sea that comes with the numbers. I would like to say to the representative of Skjelstad: the Labour Party is not against municipalities merging – in no way! My small municipality, on the outside of Senja, which has 900 inhabitants, decided not to merge. I advised them to join the other municipalities. I thought that was right. But I also want to say that getting enough skills on the outside of Senja will also be a challenge when they get together with Lenvik. There's no doubt about it. It will be in the small district municipalities that are now becoming part of a larger municipality. So we don't have to go around thinking that just you're going to merge municipalities, it's going to work out everything right away. But I actually very much agree that there are many small municipalities that are going to make a profit from getting together. It also means the Workers' Party, and I have given it advice to the smallest municipalities when I have traveled around my county. The challenge of having sufficient people in the welfare professions will be there anyway. I understand from the representative of Skkelstad that it was not the main theme here, but I had to take the floor, because the representative Keshvari was so persuasive and made so many strange claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e504	I want to give the SV a little right that there is a difference in the competitive outsourcing of services for which the public is fully responsible, and that the public actually takes on tasks. I think that the proposers have several examples of the last of the document 8 that we are now discussing. The representative Knutsen refers to Nordic research, which shows that the quality is falling, and a conference in 2012. I myself am in the Nordic Council, and I believe that more recent research has taken place since then, as in particular. Takes into account the difference between the non-profit sector and the private sector, which once again shows, as confirmed by surveys in Norway, that there are no significant differences in the quality of services from the public, private and non-profit sector. On the contrary, they often help to lift each other up. Often the welfare innovators come in and take over what has been public service, and organize it in a different way, so that the public comes after, and you learn from each other. Both are getting better. Where the private can take out profit, when they've organized the business a little bit differently. What many of them tell us is that, among other things, are on lower sick leave than in the public sector they take on a high level of benefit. For me, low sick leave is a sign that the employees are well-being, not that they are disgusted and driven on. But then the question is whether SV believes that the public sector should use taxpayers’ money to compete for private services, as the hospital in Østfold did when they could undermine private medical clinics in providing occupational health services. I don't think they should. When mention is made of the competence to purchase ICT services, it is quite right: you need to have the skills to buy ICT services, not necessarily to develop the service yourself. Here I think it would have been useful to separate a little bit in the different debates, then we would all have come out better. But back to what I said earlier: the next time we're going to have a big debate on how the state grows, I suggest that we take the big debate on the organisation of the public in a more forward-looking and smarter way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e517	Some reports suggest that there is no knowledge in the Right and in other civil parties of the difference in asphaltification, the purchase of ICT services and nursery services. Of course, there's a difference between these things, also fundamentally. What surprises me about the more principled approach from parts of the left side is the claim that any private operator providing welfare services that benefit citizens and also make profits has in a way lost the public sector to the possibility of providing more welfare services. That logic must be able to be transferred to areas other than purely welfare services. It must be that if it is considered that a private kindergarten operator provides a service that has been requested by the public and takes out profits, fewer childcare services are required, for example. private public limited liability companies providing services to the public and withdrawing profits. The logic then has to be that it is believed that the consequence of private suppliers in public transport taking out profits is that the public receives less public transport for the money, and that it would be better for the state or the municipality to take over everything. Or it's private medics and medical centres that also take out profits – the logic must be that since they take out profits, you get fewer health services than you would get if everyone were employed in the municipality. Of course it's not like that. Or snow mining, for that matter – there are many private companies that deliver snow mining on behalf of the public, and that go with profits. If you were to follow the logic of this pulpit, you would think that if only the state or the municipality had taken over all the snowbursts, you would have more snowburst for the money, because no one would have taken out any profit. Nobody argues like that, of course no one wants to make such an argument – but that's what you have to do. That must be the consequence, at least if you expect to have a certain consistency in the argument – but that is obviously not always true. It turns out that this is probably the most rhetorical, and it also shows that the rhetoric becomes crazy when you choose not to be consistent about what you actually mean, and how you argue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e530	Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e535	The last speaker shows how wrong it can be. The problem is not to analyse what is appropriate for market outsourcing — what is appropriate for the market. There are a lot of fields where the market fits, but there is a difference between snow mining and care for the elderly. There is even a difference between knee operations and care for the elderly. One has a strong rationalization potential, if you become good and have good practice in operating knees, while the care of the elderly is so much more complicated. And, not least, you use 80-85 pst. on salaries, pensions and staff, which is the definition of quality. If you want to take dividends, you have to press there, for the other 15 pst. is fixed expenditure. It's so logical that it's almost not going to last, while incubators, and even knee operations, are all about something completely different. It's this right hand side doesn't do: you don't analyze where the market is sovereign and great, and where it isn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e543	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e559	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e568	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the examination of the proposal for a representative on modified conditions for the establishment and closure of asylum-seekers. Today, we are facing a situation where the share of reception driven by ideals and municipalities is declining. I would like to refer to the Stortingen's request decision 434:7 for 2015-2016, which states that different models of reception establishment should be considered in order to better facilitate municipalities and non-governmental organisations wishing to establish and operate reception. Then it seems contradictory that we have a total of eight receptions again operated by non-profit actors after the last closures in 2017. A majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Government Parties, agrees with the proposers that a better balance must be struck between non-profit, commercial and municipal operators in the third division. Because although it is an explicit objective to increase the proportion of municipal and non-profit operators, one is short when one sees well-driving reception directed by non-profit actors being lost because according to their own internal instructions, UDI places particular emphasis on – or, in practice, only on – price when assessing closures. The fact that all categories of operators are to be represented must be taken into account to a much greater extent also in the case of closures of the beneficiaries of asylum. In its reply letter dated 28 April, the Council of State states that the establishment and operation of reception are subject to competition and that cost-effectiveness and flexibility are necessary in a system where capacity needs can fluctuate considerably in a short time. While it is, of course, necessary to take into account the costs of both establishment and closure of reception, it is also important that quality is a central criterion of scale-down in order to ensure that the best quality receptions are maintained. A majority of the committee believes that it is unfortunate when well-run receptions that have been operational for many years are dropped because only price has been decisive. Often this reception has gained valuable experience, knowledge and competence and has a good cooperation with the community. Ideal actors bring with them added values that are important from a social point of view. Good social economy is not only about savings in the short term but also about the management of Community resources in a responsible manner. In this way, it is in the interests of society to ensure that residents receive a decent and meaningful life, so that they are well integrated into society. In the long term, this will be cost-effective. A majority of the Committee, all except for the Government Parties, sees the need to clarify the criteria to be taken into account when the reception capacity is built up or down. I am pleased that the Storting today decides to develop clear criteria for the establishment, continuation and closure of reception, which ensure a better balance between commercial, municipal and non-profit operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e587	Should the representative make proposals? That's what the representative has to do. The representative Heidi Greni then addressed the proposals from the Central Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e592	In the autumn of 2015, the receiver was put under a very large pressure. A formidable effort was made in the field by a very large number of interested municipalities and not least by the employees in very many receptions throughout the country. After 2015, there are a number of improvement and learning points for those responsible for dealing with that type of situation. These include: on the dialogue between the state and the municipality, which we so many places were deficient. We also saw examples in the media that temporary reception was established at very high prices and, unfortunately, with poor quality. Now it's late arrivals. Then it goes without saying that reception has to be reduced, and that the number of places has to be reduced. There's no disagreement about that. Nor is there any disagreement that price and cost-effectiveness should be emphasised. But in a situation where you now have a good overview, and where you have time, it is necessary to take the lead in how this degradation is going to happen, and what kind of reception you're going to have with you. Then there is something that we in the Workers' Party believe is important to focus on. One is that even when you leave reception, you should have a good dialogue with the municipalities concerned. Secondly, it is important that we now ensure that we have the best receptions with us – those who are good at integration, those who work well with return work, and those who work well with the world outside. Thirdly, it is important that we have a good geographical distribution and take into account future preparedness. Not least, it is important at the major border crossing points. I have to say I'm worried that you're going to work so hard in the north. The West Camp is now being considered sold, and in Finnmark there will not be a single asylum destination again in a short time. If they had been in that situation in the autumn of 2015, the handling would have been even worse and even worse in deficits than the government did at the time. It is ultimately a political responsibility to give leadership. The UDI must be implemented, but the political leaders must be the politicians. The fact that we have this case for treatment today is a result of the government not doing that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e605	In this case, the proposers ask for new procurement criteria to be developed for the creation, continuation and closure of asylum recipients, which ensure quality in supply and which stimulate the number of municipal and non-profit operators to be strengthened. In addition, the government shall ensure that the criteria for the selection of asylum recipients meet the criteria for the creation of asylum recipients and implement measures to strengthen its share of the asylum reception market for the ideal and municipal operators. Today it's like 70 pst. the reception is driven by commercial operators, 8 pst. is driven by ideal, and 22 pst. are driven by local authorities. The proportion of asylum seekers who are in receipt of the operations of non-profit actors has increased from the end of 2015 until April 2017. The establishment and operation of reception are open to competition. Competition exposure means that both non-profit, commercial and municipal actors can notify their interest in supply. This contributes to the cost-effectiveness and necessary flexibility of a system where capacity needs can fluctuate greatly in a short time and the reception capacity must be continuously adapted to the needs. In the second half of 2015, when there were very many asylum seekers, the reception system was seen under considerable pressure. In spite of this, there was sufficient provision of reception facilities so that all asylum seekers were provided with accommodation. It is up to the UDI to consider a cost-effective reception system to be able to offer legal accommodation to asylum seekers, and the UDI has the opportunity to screen expensive receptions that they think are important and to be able to reduce reception with poor quality even if they are cheap. There are already guidelines for communication with municipalities on the establishment and closure of asylum recipients and the task of setting up, operating and terminating asylum recipients has been given to the UDI by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. This is a responsibility to adapt the reception capacity to the need that exists at any time. We should, therefore, be reluctant to strengthen some types of operators' position in the asylum reception market, which goes beyond others, since it cannot be demonstrated that such a guided differentiation will enhance the quality of the reception supply. Nor is there any evidence that there is a clear link between price and quality. There may be well driven reception with good quality and low price, and there may be reception with high price and low quality. The detailed management provided by the proposal will reduce the scope and flexibility of the UDI and will probably also increase the cost of operating government receptions. A less flexible reception system also means the risk that the management of rapid needs for up and downscale reception capacity will become more difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e624	It is up to the UDI to weigh the consideration of a cost-effective reception system against the need to offer legal accommodation to asylum seekers. The UDI has the opportunity to screen animal receipts that they consider important to maintain, and to lower low-quality receptions even if they are cheap. Thus, the reasoning given to the representative of the Central Party is not correct, that it is only price that determines the type of reception you go for. The size has requested the government to reduce the costs of reception points in Decision 434:7, cf. Document 8:37 S for 2015–2016. This decision is poorly consistent with the conclusions of this draft representative. At the same time, the Committee of the Regions. 399 S for 2015–2016 expressed a wish that ‘recipients are more involved with voluntary actors’ and not that it was an objective to increase the number of receptions under the direction of non-profit actors and municipalities. The government is now increasing the number of non-profit and municipal actors in line with the wishes of the Storting. The proportion of asylum seekers living in the reception of non-profit actors has increased from the end of 2015 until April 2017. If one looks at developments from the end of July 2016 until the end of April 2017, the proportion of residents on receipt of non-profit institutions serving households increased from 13 pst. to 15 pst. and the proportion of municipal receipts increased from 13 pst. until 22 pst. Similarly, the proportion of asylum seekers receiving the operation of private operators has been reduced over the same period of time. In other words, the government has followed up the Storting decision in this matter in a good and satisfactory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e633	For the Christian People's Party, this is an important matter, and we will vote with the majority to get new criteria for the establishment, continuation and closure of asylum recipients – criteria that ensure the quality of the offer and contribute to good integration. In addition, there has to be a good balance between municipal, non-profit and private actors, and it requires action to strengthen the proportion of reception points of the ideal and municipal operators. Feedback is unique in contact with the ideal actors. Firstly, survival as a humanitarian player continues to be demanding, and secondly, the emphasis on price in the tender regime is increasing and the emphasis on quality is reduced. This development in the Christian People's Party seems alarming, and we believe this can weaken both the integration and the social economy. We know that time in reception is important for a good integration process. The quality of reception will have an impact on both Norwegian skills and mental health when living. Good housing conditions with activation and close cooperation with the community provide a good basis for further integration. It counteracts later radicalization and extraterrestrialism, and I thought we were quite in agreement about that. Consequently, unilateral emphasising of prices or greater emphasising of prices is completely wrong when setting up or terminating asylum recipients. Decommissioning the good receptions that have invested a lot over a long period of time to establish trust and cooperation between residents and communities will have a negative impact on integration. In this way, the cheapest receptions can quickly be the most expensive. Saving on reception operations may result in other institutions in the community remaining at an ever greater cost. Unfortunately, we see that the ideal actors are increasingly being squandered by a tendering policy that may seem unwise, in areas by region. And for the Christian People's Party, we have registered it both in the area of child protection and care. We need to make better use of the unique contribution they make. There's a lot of money there. Therefore, today’s decision is important. It is about the long lines of integration policy. Do we want short-term savings, or do we want to facilitate quality and good integration into asylum recipients, where, over the years, significant skills and professionalism have been built? I would like to promote the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e648	The Christian People's Party is not involved in any proposals, as far as I can see, but it is at least noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e653	The Christian People's Party is in Roman I and II, and that's SV happy. I would also like the Christian People's Party to support the two proposals, because the whole content of the Tuskedal speech now supports the content of the two proposals. The reason why we took this up is that we discovered that there were changes to the purchase rules, or the procurement rules, which meant that when you were going to drop the receipts, the main emphasis was only on price and not on quality. It is quite right that the UDI can focus on this in its selection, but it is clear that they also have a very strong commitment from the government to save money, and that will probably be done to a small extent. We've gone in and asked what this looks like, and it's very difficult to find examples where there's quality and ability to integrate that has led to asylum recipients being maintained, unfortunately, and I also thought that we all agreed that we should focus on it in the receptions. So this is where you build skills and quality with public money, and we know that time in reception is very important. There you should learn more Norwegian than the government wants. Attention should be paid to community work and habitable work, which has also now been taken out of the criteria. It is one of the proposals that we have here, and several from several parties have been up and saying that it is very important that the receptions work with integration and in close cooperation with the community. Then it has to go in again, because it's such an important, good start for those who are going to come here to the country, that they get a good knowledge of this right away. It also has to be the same with the criteria, which I'm very happy that the majority now want to decide that we should have, that there is no difference when we build up and down. Because if you put the most emphasis on building down, you will inevitably lose them with good skills and quality. We in SV do not say that price is not important either, but we have to make sure that the money we spend in this area goes to the receptions that are best on quality, on cooperation with the community and on integration. That's what we're asking for. In addition, in fact, we take seriously what the right-hand side uses as an argument in any other debate, that it is very important that we have a diversity of suppliers. Yeah, we'll have to make sure of that. We say that the voluntary sector is very important, but the system we now have is breaking down the voluntary sector. It shows the numbers, and that's why changes are needed in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e666	For the left, the aim is to have a minimum of time in reception. Rapid treatment and clarification are essential for the stay and must be a priority task: those who are refused will be returned quickly and the rest will get started on the new life in Norway. Yet many still have a long time in reception. Some people are sitting for a very long time, and therefore the quality of asylum recipients is very important. The left considers that it is healthy that several different actors compete for reception, and believes that commercial actors contribute to positive diversity. However, we believe that there should also be room for municipal and non-profit actors, and are concerned that the proportion of municipal and non-profit actors is falling. We fear that this is due to the fact that the price is decisive in the choice of operators. Receptions that have over time built up a good quality offer that helps to promote integration in line with our intentions, no longer reach a competition where price is absolutely crucial. The Left therefore considers that there is a need for action to strengthen the share of the non-profit and municipal operators in the asylum reception market. We need a good balance between the different actors. Record low arrivals naturally have a significant impact on the need for reception points. Continuing development, we cannot stand completely without ideal and municipal actors either. Competence and knowledge built up over a long period of time can then be lost. We believe that this will lead to a weakening of the overall offer, and for the Left, quality and diversity are important. We therefore support the proposal to ensure the quality of supply and a good balance between municipal, non-profit and private actors, which contribute to good integration, preparedness and geographical dissemination.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e676	All applicants for protection in Norway are required by the Foreign Affairs Act to provide accommodation while the application for asylum is for treatment. The responsibility for the establishment, operation and closure of asylum recipients is and has been delegated by the Ministry of Justice and Defence to the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, as many have pointed out. The Ministry has, in its instructions to the Directorate for Foreign Affairs on the accommodation of asylum seekers on 5 May 2017, set out different considerations to be taken into account by the UDI. There is always considerable uncertainty about the management of asylum recipients and needs can change rapidly. Uncertainty is linked both to the dimensioning of reception capacity and to the needs of the host population. UDI sets out criteria to be taken into account when establishing and terminating receipts, in its own circulars and in internal messages. The ever-changing situation in the field of reception means that it is important for the foreign administration to be able to adjust the weighting of the different considerations according to the situation in the field. Let me give you three examples that are illustrative and that many people have been involved in. During the autumn of 2015, very many asylum seekers arrived in a very short time. At that time it was very important to obtain accommodation for the first time possible for anyone who applied for asylum. The government was able to do this. This, however, meant that it was both necessary to acquire some more expensive reception points and that some places were of lower quality than expected in a normal situation. In 2016, however, there were far fewer asylum seekers than the forecasts up to the beginning of the year. This led to a significant overcapacity of reception points. The main purpose then was to build down the most expensive reception points, as well as the reception points that kept the lowest quality. It was also done. In fact, I believe that the proposals that are now on the table, and which are the majority behind here now, are well taken care of in view of the adjustments that have been made, and the learning points that have been captured through the situation you had in 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e687	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e692	It's interesting that the Council of State says that there's poor quality that makes the receptions now shut down. For example: Grung and Vadsø have in the media focused on price and not on quality, for which these receptions have been praised by the government and others. The government was too poorly prepared in 2015. The question is, what have you learned? What kind of readiness do you now have? It is particularly important at border crossing points. When many asylum seekers came across Storskog, the municipality of Sør-Varanger kept it going until the government got its legs kicked and established a reception at the West Camp. The reception in Vadsø was one of the receptions that set up. Now the West Camp is being considered to be sold, and in Finnmark there will be no asylum recipients again after this decline. What kind of policy assessments has the government made in terms of preparedness and reception structure in East Finland?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e701	I will first be allowed to quote myself, so that the representative Pedersen actually listens to what I say. I said, ‘In 2016, however, the number of asylum seekers came far lower than the forecast at the beginning of the year. This led to a significant overcapacity of reception points. The main purpose was to reduce the most expensive reception points, as well as the lower quality reception points.» I actually thought that was the intention behind some of the suggestions that are on the table here, that it's about price, but also that those with the lowest quality should be signed out. If the Workers' Party and Helga Pedersen believe that this is wrong, it must be manufactured in a completely different way. So that's how the readiness is now in focus. It's important that when you're building up now, you don't have to do it in such a way that you don't have the chance to get ready in the event of a new wave of migration. Therefore, the focus on preparedness is very important now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e713	The PST report on the background of radicalisation shows that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers are a very vulnerable group for radicalisation. The danger of being caught in destructive environments or being exposed to trafficking in human beings is greater in large cities than in more transparent communities in smaller municipalities. In the last few rounds, with the necessary downscaling of the reception capacity, there has been a clear over-weight of reception in district municipalities that have been closed down. There are many well-run receptions, which have become known for their particularly good cooperation with the community and the municipality. Shouldn't it have been the other way around? Should it not also be avoided to keep too many receptions in the big cities, primarily to prevent radicalisation, but also because these are valuable jobs in many districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e718	I have a feeling that this debate assumes that there are still large numbers of arrivals in Norway. Now the situation is that we have the lowest arrivals since the early 1990s. It is also necessary to take into account the fact that the reception capacity is being reduced. Then I see that more points to having more criteria. Geographical dissemination is required. You have to have operator choices, i.e. between ideals, municipal and private. There shall be tenders — competition. There should be criteria that go on price and quality, and that there should be reception at the large border crossings, I now understand is a criterion. Then it's a little difficult to conclude with all these criteria when the number of receipts is then reduced relative to the low arrivals. Meeting all these criteria, with this diversity, becomes a challenge when the number of receptions drops.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e725	The starting point for the proposal is the changes in the criteria that have been made – not when you create it, but when you build it down. It is quite right that an emergency situation is quite different. Everyone agrees to get rid of the most expensive, and especially the animals that also had poor quality. There's no disagreement about that. What has been disagreed about is: are different criteria to be used when setting down than when setting up, and when the criteria themselves will lead to less emphasis on quality and cooperation with communities? That's what's the actual situation today. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to use different criteria, so that a closure process — where the need varies — will lead to the removal of some of the good quality receptions and the least expensive ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e730	I tried to say something about it. There are different situations that may arise in different application of the criteria. What we experienced in 2015 meant that all the criteria that are now being taken into account could have to be deviated in order to meet the large supply we have. Therefore, there is a certain difference between building up in an emergency situation and now building up in a situation where the arrival figures are substantially low. Having criteria for a normal situation, we can all agree. And then we agree that we should seek to achieve a diversity of operators. You have to look at the quality and the content, and you have to evaluate the quality against the price. There's no disagreement. But as I also said in my post, I believe that the government and UDI are actually following up on what has been established today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e735	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e742	I take the floor simply because the Council of State did not answer my question. No one disagrees that reception that operates at high price and poor quality is going out, but what we've seen a lot of examples of now is that reception at very long seagoing times, which has received public recognition of the government for the high quality of the work they're doing, is now losing tenders just because of price. What the Storting will adopt today is not an inconvenient list of requirements; there are some very general principles on which to base both the establishment and closure of asylum recipients. And we are fully in agreement with, among others. It has to be the same principles when you create reception, as when you put it down. But back to my question to the Council of State, which was not answered: What kind of political assessment has the government made in terms of preparedness and reception structure in East Finland, in the light of the experience gained in the autumn of 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e758	When the Council of State again repeats that in an emergency situation where many thousands of reception points have to be established, it has to deviate from the criteria for both quality and price, that is not what this matter is all about. Everyone understands that. But then it is important that you have a better preparedness than what this government had when the situation arose. The Red Cross set a crisis stop in August, the Left and the SV asked for an extraordinary meeting in the Stortinget to meet this in a better way than the government did, and the bulk of the population had to ask the government to send people to Storskog and build up. No, this proposal is about when we build down, not putting more emphasis on price than quality, so that we are left with reception that is cheap, but that does not ensure cooperation with the community and habitable work. It's been deleted from the criteria. So you don't have to focus on that. I don't think there's a majority in this room to ignore the receptions that have a good cooperation with the communities and the residents for good integration – that it's not going to mean anything to decide which reception to continue. Some of these receptions have been operated for a long time. Many of them have good quality and experience, and this can be seen in retrospect. It must be an important criterion that we keep those receptions. Our whole point in this case is that we're doing it this way, because it's so very important that those who are applying for and getting asylum in Norway get a good integration from day one, and that the receptions are also good at working on voluntary returns. We know that there's a huge difference. The government has cut off voluntary returns and increased the effort for forced return. It's not good – it's not good for those who have to travel either. We have to pay attention to the fact that the receptions that are good for voluntary return work are allowed to continue, for the sake of those who are sitting there, but also for our sakes, because that is important. That is why we propose this, and it is not respected – as the Council of State says it is – in the criteria that are being used now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e767	I had not expected representatives from SV to say that this government is doing something that is good, but I answered the question in the reply box. In terms of price and quality: there is no clear link between the quality of asylum recipients and the price of reception points. We have examples of reception that keep a relatively high quality at a low price per place – and vice versa, we have examples of animal reception that keeps a relatively low quality. It is also important to point out that the reception considered to be of lower quality by the UDI has been terminated. This situation is now, how many receptions have to be reduced – and I understand that I also have support from the Workers' Party and SV – about this reception that is of consistently good quality. Today, there are small quality differences among the remaining receptions. Nor is there any evidence to demonstrate a clear link between the type of operator and the quality of the operation of the reception facilities. This is supported by both the UDI and the Berge Committee. It is therefore not appropriate to conclude directly that increased emphasis on quality criteria leads to an increase in the share of a particular type of operator. That's what I also tried to say, given that I'm skeptical about introducing new criteria for the UDI board regarding this. This flexibility is very important. So the representative Helga Pedersen is trying to represent it as if nothing has been done. I have during my time as the Minister of Integration answered a number of questions from this house, and it is clear that there have been many grips, significant grips, to strengthen preparedness and reception capacity, so that it is correct if a 2015 situation should arise again. In the case of the arrival centre in Finnmark, it is now in readiness, but until further notice at least the arrival centre in Eastfold is in operation. But these are assessments that are being made all the time, and up to the 2018 budget, there will be a significant basis, so that we have a clear readiness if such a situation should arise again. Then there has been a clear message about the quality and content of integration receptions, and this should be strengthened, just in line with what both the Christian People's Party and the Left here state as a basis. That's what we've agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e782	I don't know if we're talking past each other, or if there's any misunderstanding. For a number of the points taken up by the representative, Andersen, to which the Council of State refers, there is no disagreement about the basic idea behind it. So it's not just a price, it's not just a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price, it's a price. We fully agree on that. And there we also have to look at what's the reality, and what's the evolution. If one looks at developments from the end of July 2016 until the end of April 2017, the proportion of residents in the receipt of non-profit institutions serving households increased from 13 to 15 pst. and the proportion of municipal receipts increased from 13 to 22 pst. Similarly, the proportion of asylum seekers receiving the operation of private operators has been reduced over the same period. There is nothing to suggest that the development the representative of Andersen is calling for does not go in that direction. In terms of integration as early as possible, we also fully agree with that. That is why the Progress Party has already been included in the Cooperation Agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party with integration receptions, where people who are most likely to stay in Norway were to be included and integrated from day one, where the possibility of engaging non-profit organisations and actors in society, whether it be choirs, corps, football balls, the Red Cross or other ideals, and within the voluntary sphere, could be more used to help the people who are going to be here and become part of Norwegian society. So the basic idea we've actually done something about by arranging for integration reception. And when it comes to the criterion not just going to be a price, let me be absolutely clear about it. Some of the considerations Andersen has, we think, are quite correct, but we cannot see that it is necessary to change the criteria when it is already the case today. When the proportion of residents in ideal reception rises, and when the proportion in municipal reception rises, it shows that there is not only the price that determines, nor should it be. That is why, in the Progress Party, we are pleased that the Council of States was so clear and clear in its replies and in its last statement that there are a number of criteria that determine which reception we retain, and which reception is no longer operated.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e791	I feel that I did not receive any response from the Council of State in the reply, so I try again. Of course, the centre party fully agrees that the reception capacity needs to be reduced when the influx of asylum seekers decreases and the need is considerably less. No one disagrees. But my question was whether it has ever been considered to look at the geographical distribution when you scale down. The PST report clearly shows that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers are a very vulnerable group for radicalisation, and we know that it is a problem that is particularly big in large cities, we know that there is a smaller problem in small district municipalities, where there are much more transparent communities. The problems and challenges of trafficking in human beings are smaller. I also thought that the Council of State agreed with the Central Party that it is not good for them to gather in the big cities. The large concentration of single minors in some places makes integration less successful, not more successful. In addition, the geographical distribution of asylum recipients will, of course, contribute to job creation — in many district municipalities where there is a severe need for jobs. So why hasn't the Council of State assessed geographical dispersal in such a way that one builds up in the big cities instead of prioritizing building up primarily in the districts, to prevent radicalisation, to prevent trafficking in human beings and to ensure better integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e798	Karin Andersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e803	Unfortunately, I have to ask for the floor, and that is because it is said that everyone agrees on integration and habitable work and community work, but the problem is that today's legislation is different when building up. That's the whole reason. This does not mean that SV has said that the government or UDI never focuses on quality – they do – but you use other criteria when building up than when building down. The criteria in building down are less important for quality, so the criteria have been taken out of residential work and community work. It's taken out as criteria now. SV believes it is wrong, and it is not an adequate alternative that integration is now provided. All receptions must be good integration receptions, and all receptions must work well to motivate those to travel to voluntary return.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e810	According to the Secretary of State, Sandberg has withdrawn from the list of speakers, but he obviously has not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e815	There was a little bit of confusion here. It was an attempt to shorten the debate. As far as geography is concerned, you have to base your geography on building reception points, and I understand that the Center Party wants to do so. We are very busy building up a proper reception capacity, which may meet again in 2015. This government, as also pointed out in the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has changed the reception structure. This means that considerable emphasis has been placed on the content of what is called integration reception. There is now a considerable job to be done, and that job will be strengthened in the future in focusing on integration, especially for those people who are likely to stay in Norway. This grip has been taken by the government, along with the cooperation parties. I understand that representatives do not want to take on board that this government has actually built up a significant preparedness – not only, but together with the Stortinget. In order to ensure that the UDI has the ability to rapidly scale up the reception capacity of many asylum seekers, the Ministry of Justice and Security has been empowered by the Stortinge to increase the accommodation capacity, even if it results in higher appropriations. UDI and other relevant departments have developed their emergency plan for asylum arrivals after 2015. Cross-sectoral cooperation is also significantly strengthened. PU and UDI have, among others: establish joint cooperation contingency plans. The UDI has established a number of framework agreements for reception points for the purpose of preparedness, including a framework agreement for major solutions such as: flotillas, ships, racks and tents, if this should occur again. In the period when there is a need to reduce the reception capacity rapidly, a temporary situation of lower capacity utilisation will arise in the receipts. This is acceptable. These are likely to be quickly re-established and put into service if a short-term need arises. As I said, the UDI in the reception instructions, with 5 May 2017, is responsible for weighing the preparedness concerns at all times, in order to manage large and/or rapid increases in the number of arrivals. Of course, the government has also learned from what happened in 2015, because in 2015 very few were prepared for what happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e826	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e842	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e851	First, I would like to thank the proposers for the proposal and for bringing forward the demanding situation in which single minors with temporary residence are located. The temporary residence scheme for minors was introduced by the Red-Green Government. The current government wanted last year to extend the scheme to more, but the majority of the Storting voted down the proposal. I'm glad. However, another majority removed the reasonableness condition in the case of internal refugees. The fairness condition has acted as a safety valve that has protected particularly single minors from returning to the area where they have no network – a shielding of the very most vulnerable. Nevertheless, a majority wanted to remove it. It is a violation of international law, according to several hearing bodies. The change came into force on 1 October, and since then we have seen a dramatic increase in temporary residence permits. Extension of the scheme was implemented through the back way. If one was not aware that this was the consequence of removing the reasonableness condition, one today has the opportunity to rectify this. Now we know that there are children who are hit hardest by the majority's intrusion. It is therefore disappointing that no longer sees the need to reverse this change. The temporary period is devastating for the children affected. Now the despair is great in the receptions. Many lone minors do not get the care they need. These are young people with heavy loads and a special need for safety. Nevertheless, their everyday life is marked by the opposite, and they describe themselves as very frightened and alone. In December 2016, the situation was so serious that the UDI notified the department. We're also getting reports from dubious tenants and employees in the receptions. Utage, attempted suicide and escape are reported. Save the Children describe the state as unsustainable, and several express despair. The situation is so demanding that it is necessary that we seize. The conditions of fairness must be reintroduced. It's about life and health for children that we're responsible for when they're in the country. Furthermore, responsibility for asylum seekers over the age of 15 should be transferred to the protection of children. Children are children regardless of background, and children growing up in Norway need proper care. We as society are measured by how we take care of our weakest. That's why we have to grab hold of it. I bring this up with the proposals on which the Left is involved in the matter. The left comes in addition to supporting SV's loose proposals in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e870	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e875	It must be strongly emphasised that refugees need to be kept in the best possible way when they are in Norway for various reasons. Here the receptions have a special responsibility, of course. In this context, measures are needed to ensure the stability of living conditions, legal certainty and not least good organisation in view of psychosocial conditions. Furthermore, there must be good childcare skills in receptions, a good school offer, health services and well-prepared measures in the event of a return. I would like to refer to the Workers' Party's alternative budget proposals, where there were proposals to strengthen volunteering in receptions, the activity offer for children in receptions, and proposals to reduce the proportion of municipal child protection measures for lone minor asylum seekers. The Labour Party believes that there is a need to legislate on the responsibility of lone minor asylum seekers aged 15 to 18, i.e. in view of the care they require and the special requirements we must impose for the reception of single minor asylum seekers. There is a need for clarification of responsibilities, so that there is an equivalent offer, regardless of receipts. Refugee minors are a particularly vulnerable group and there is concern for a strong increase in the temporary residence group. In today’s legislation, there is a need to change the practice of examining applications for residence for this group. In examining applications for residence for this group of asylum seekers, we believe that there should be an assessment of vulnerability, on the basis of which management decisions on young people lacking care, networks or resources in their home country should be taken into account. Finally, I would like to refer to previous decisions taken here in the Stortinget not too long ago, that single minor asylum seekers with limited residence pending a documented ID should be immediately settled without any quarantine period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e888	Asylum seekers under 18 years of age without a known care provider in their home country must have a need for protection in accordance with current legislation in order to receive permanent residence. The fact that persons without need of protection are allowed only temporary residence until they are authorized is necessary in order to prevent cynical families from sending out young children as anchor children and putting them at unnecessary risk on the road. The most humane thing is to ensure that children who have it safely in their home country are not sent out on a life-threatening journey simply because their parents want a better economic situation. At the same time, it is important that asylum seekers under the age of 18 who will be permanently resident and to be integrated are settled as soon as possible. The Children's Ombudsman has been ready for this. Therefore, the government has decided to launch a package of seven new short-term measures to improve the situation of single minor asylum seekers in reception and care centres. The aim of the action package is to address the more short-term challenges, as the needs are likely to wane in the longer term as a result of lower arrival rates, shorter processing times and that single minors with limited residence permits, pending a proven identity, can now be settled after the initial decision. We need to control immigration. We must avoid sending out signals about liberalisation and that it can be an automatic way to stay just because you are under 18 years of age. Something else will be a call for an inhuman and cynical use of anchor children, with whom neither children are served nor society as such. At the same time, I am pleased that the effective Minister for Immigration and Integration, Per Sandberg, has taken the concerns seriously, and that the government is now launching the immediate settlement of single minors with limited authorisation pending documented identity after the first decision. Now these people, who are likely to have permanent residence, will be able to initiate integration into a municipality as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e899	In fact, the situation at reception for single minor asylum seekers is quite serious. Already last autumn, there was a growing concern about suicide attempts, self-harm and depressed children. Reception leaders called the alarm, non-governmental organisations working at receptions, called the alarm, even UDI warned the government, who is responsible for the situation, as early as December last year. The government has now come up with some actions that are mentioned in the settings, and that is good and good, but it is too little, and it is too late. The least government should have done was to follow the advice of its own professional body UDI to legislate on the care of children at reception and to limit the use of temporary residence to the oldest children. But these professional advices the government has refused to follow up. The Christian People's Party proposed in Document 8:100 S for 2016-2017 a law on the care of unaccompanied minors at reception. I am pleased that the proposal received the support of the majority of the population, and the clarifications proposed by the proposers behind this proposal today, the Christian People's Party can also stand behind. The fact that such rules are put in place should be lacking. That's the least we could do. The Christian People's Party will primarily be responsible for child protection for all children in Norway, wherever they come from. The national human rights institution believes that Norway is violating the child convention by discriminating against single minors over and under 15 years of age, as is the case in current legislation. It is not sustainable, and we cannot accept a policy that is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal that all children should be under the care of the child. An important reason why very many children live in that uncertainty is that last year the majority of population chose to remove the reasonableness condition. I notice that the government parties are using good space to explain that this is not in direct violation of international law, but we have also noticed that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees disagrees, we have also noticed that it has a legal anchor in the refugee convention. We have also noticed that the High Commissioner refers to the European Court of Human Rights, which has followed the direction of the High Commissioner in this area. We also note that the Foreign Affairs Department, the Association of Lawyers, Amnesty, NOAS and legal experts in the field assume that it is a duty of international law to assess the reasonableness of the use of the internal migration option. Also in the preparations for the Foreign Affairs Act, it is assumed that Norway is obliged by international law to assess its reasonableness. That's why the Christian People's Party opposed introducing a rule where people are referred to being internally displaced even if it's unreasonable. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal to reintroduce such a reasonable condition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e914	The Parties share the concerns of the proposers as regards the situation of single minor asylum seekers. A number of messages have been received, including: by the Vergeföreningen, NOAS, Save Barna and the Children’s Ombudsman expressing concern at the worsening situation of lone minor asylum seekers. Many single minors experience mental stress because of the uncertain situation in Norway. Self-injury, suicide attempts and reluctance are reported among young asylum seekers in reception. In addition, some of these disappear without anyone knowing where they're going to be. According to the UDI, 160 single minors disappeared from Norwegian reception in 2016. Such developments must be taken with the utmost seriousness and immediate action must be taken to ensure better follow-up and guidance for young people. It is now well documented by experience and research that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers are an extra vulnerable group that needs a safe and good environment and a good device that ensures good follow-up. It is therefore necessary to impose strict requirements on adult and child-care literacy in reception. While the provision of care centres for them under 15 years of age is legally regulated, the same does not apply to minors over 15 years of age living on reception. That means we need to have extra attention on what kind of professional follow-up these kids actually get. The absence of a regulated provision of care for this group means that there are no strict requirements for which they are offered, such as staffing, competence, follow-up or housing standards. One can no longer accept that these young people receive a very different provision of care and a lower level of care than other children and young people. That is why I am pleased that the Centre Party, together with the majority of the population, has decided to legislate on the kind of care required for single minors and the requirements to be imposed on the receptions, cf. Inner. 397 S for 2016-2017. There have been requests from several, including UDI. In conclusion, although we do not support all the proposals today, it does not mean that we disagree with the proposers that there is a need for better conditions for single minors. The Central Party believes that Norway must pursue a decent and responsible asylum policy and that legal certainty must be at the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e929	First, single minor asylum seekers are children. They are children without parents and guardians, and they will then be treated in exactly the same way as our children when they are in Norway. It's our obligations after the Children's Convention, and it was just supposed to be missing. It's not cynical parents who send their kids away from war zones where terrorists are fighting, where they may have seen family and siblings being killed, mother being raped. It's not about cynical parents. It's about youth that escapes from something completely inconvenient. In the eyes of the SV and also in the eyes of the UNHCR, when the majority of the population removed the reasonable conditions for internal refugees, they did something that violates our obligations, but is also totally unreasonable, because they are sending young people back to areas and countries where they may not have been since they were two to three years, i.e. back to tribal and clan communities where there is no protection if you cannot return to their family, and where UNHCR says that they are at risk of being forced to recruit to the Taliban and other warlords in order to manage to be there at all. It's not a law-enforceable treatment. Therefore, the reasonableness condition must be reintroduced, and the assessment of the security situation in these countries must also be done by the government, which I have asked innumerable times, but which pushes the administration ahead of it. It's dangerous in Afghanistan now. It's dangerous in Kabul. I would be advised not to travel there. So that's how we treat these kids when they're here. There, the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights, as established by the Stortinget, has our advisory body on how to discharge our obligations under different conventions, including the Children's Convention, said in its Annual Report, as the Stortinget dealt with last week, claringly that we are breaking the Children's Convention because we are treating lone minor asylum seekers between 15 and 18 years of age so that they do not have equivalent care services to other children under the care of the State. It's obvious. There's no doubt about it. Then there is no doubt that we need to legislate on how this is to be done, and that there must be equivalent offers compared to other children under the care of the state. That is why we have promoted the proposal that is no. 5 today. My primary wish is that it replaces proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox If the Left and Christian People's Party insists on maintaining it, we will also vote for it, but the proposal we have now made is in line with the clear and clear reference from the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights to how we should deal with the matter. Then I take up the suggestions that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e946	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e951	The government takes a serious view of the growing unrest among lonely children in reception. As others have pointed out, we are therefore working on several different measures that can be taken in the short term to improve the situation of children. Any efforts to regulate the offer to lone minors over the age of 15 years will not improve the serious situation of single children in reception here and now, and therefore I believe that the most important thing now is the short-term measures, which should be given priority. Then you're very bastant on both sides. I heard the representative here, Andersen, now was very clear that there was a violation of the Children's Convention. No, it's not so clear. Differentiation of reception offers based on age is not a breach of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as long as the offer is sound. And that's what we need to focus on. No person seeking asylum, including single minors, has the right to international protection if internal migration in their own country is possible. In June 2016, a majority of the Stortinget agreed that the reasonableness condition that had previously been applied in the context of the IRR should be removed. I believe this was a correct decision. Norway is not obliged by international law to have such conditions, and the suspension ensures non-discrimination and clarifies clear legislation. I stress that in any case the Norwegian authorities cannot return anyone to persecution, death penalty, torture, inhumane or degrading treatment or punishment. The suspension has led to more asylum seekers, including single minors, being referred to internally. On the other hand, if an asylum application is rejected, it shall be assessed whether or not a humanitarian residence permit can be granted. So the reasons for the right will be taken care of here. If a single minor asylum seeker over 16 years of age fulfils the conditions neither for protection nor for residence on a humanitarian basis and lacks adequate care on return, a temporary residence permit may also be granted until the child reaches the age of 18. I also remember this scheme, which was introduced in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e961	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e966	I mentioned in my post the decision that was made earlier here at Stortinget, to settle the lone minors with a limited stay waiting for an ID to be cleared. Then I just want to ask the council: what is the status now for that group? Are they residents? If not, how many are left to settle? And in that case, when can we expect you to be up-to-date and comply with the decision of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e971	I can unfortunately not give any updated status there, but it is implemented by that we have changed this relationship, and that you will have to stay immediately. This is also a budgetary question, and it is related to it. But it is clear that in relation to what was underlying in the past, that one might have to wait until 2018 etc., I have of course clear ambitions that this will happen considerably faster. Because that's the intention of the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e978	In the heated situation in 2015/2016, the government promoted Prop. 90 L, where reference is made to the fact that those who no longer receive protection status because of the termination of the reasonableness requirement will have their cases dealt with under § 38, and that the content of this provision will normally be limited to those cases where it was previously considered unreasonable to refer to internal flight – that is to say, to be compensated in Section 38. But then we see afterwards that the reasonableness requirement has actually led to many more children having temporary stays, and they are to be returned as soon as they are 18 years old. How does it relate? Has the government been misinformed in its proposition, or has the practice of the legislation become significantly more stringent?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e985	No – this is also related to the number of single young people. And as I said in my post, it's that reasonableness is significantly assessed independently of this. So the practice isn't tightened up in any way. One just follows up on what has been said earlier, which has also been addressed through a number of questions that have come from different representatives of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e990	The size has established a national human rights institution to be an authority in these areas, including: in interpreting our Convention obligations. It is not SV who is the bassist of this interpretation, it is the institution that has been very clear in its annual report to the Stortinget, not that it is allowed to differentiate on the basis of age, no one has talked about it, but they are quite clear that the discrimination we see in the provision of care to Norwegian youth, for example. under the responsibility of the protection of children, who do not have parents and guardians, and single minor asylum seekers, are in breach of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. They write to the Storting that it means that the state violates its human rights obligations to these children. How can the Council of State justify their error?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e997	I repeat what I said in my post: When Andersen's representative was very clear in his statement that this was a violation of the Children's Convention, it was based on the differentiation. Differentiation of reception offers is not, in itself, a breach of any convention. What might be a violation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is that there is an irresponsible offer, which is different from that of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1002	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1009	This is where the Council of State is wrong. I would like to ask the Council and the Government to read this position and the annual report from the National Institute for Human Rights. It is not a question of having a different offer for young people over and under 15 years of age, for example, but it is not possible to have a different offer for Norwegian youth over and under 15 years of age, compared with the offer given to lone minor asylum seekers over and under 15 years of age. That is what the Convention on the Rights of the Child obliges us – that we should not discriminate against children, no matter what reason they have to be in Norway. It is purely a responsibility to ensure that this is the case, regardless of whether we believe that they will be allowed to stay afterwards, or whether they will not get it, for what reason they are here, or whether we believe that they have parents who have behaved foolishly. No, that's not what the Children's Convention is about. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is about the obligation of the authorities to treat children equally and with good quality — and, of course, with due care, it should be lacking, but that is not what this is all about. It is a matter of accepting discrimination. I was present when Fafo presented his report on trafficking in human beings and refugee children. Then the Minister for Children, Solvency Horne, stood on the speaker's chair and said that all children in Norway are our children and that they should be treated with an equivalent offer. It doesn't matter to the government, and it also makes it clear to the national institution for human rights. It is the institution of the Great Britain, which we have set up precisely because there is always a drag on how to interpret these conventions, and they are clarifyingly clear: the state violates its human rights obligations towards these children, and briefly they say: the Children's Convention does not open up such discrimination between children's groups, not on the basis of immigration-regulating grounds, not on the basis of the resource situation. There are no valid immigration policy considerations that can justify such a device, they say in their submissions. That is why I would strongly urge all parties in the Chamber to look at proposal No. 5, which I have put on the table today, because there we say it should comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as the National Institute for Human Rights imposes on us, and provide for an equivalent offer compared to other children who are subject to the care of the State – because that is our obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1016	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3 The President will ask the Council of State of Sandberg to remain in office. We don't have any other state council in the hall, but we're moving on to the agenda anyway, and then we have to have a state council sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1034	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1043	I would like to thank the proposers for an important and good proposal. Clean water is absolutely vital for all of us. It is important for people, for nature, it is important for business, and we know that water and sewerage systems in Norway have a huge need for maintenance in the future. We know that climate change leads to a great need to secure such important infrastructure, and we also know, as important as water is, that it can also be a major business potential for those who are now able to develop the water industry in such a way that many more people in the world who need it can get a safe and pollution-free water and sewerage sector. This is a little related to the first thing we had today, I think, where we discussed how the public sector and the private sector could work together on important things for society, but also things that could develop private sectors in Norway. This is a good example, as some measures and incentives are requested from the State to facilitate the important role of municipalities as a good supplier of water and sewerage services in the future. The industry then says that they need support, among other things. a centre where this can be developed and a spice layer between the State, the municipalities and the supplier industry. Then we need a model of how this will develop in the future, because there is a great deal of interest and responsibility for the public and also important interests that the private sector can help us with. I was happy when I read in the water table no. 2-2017, cooperation between the government and the supporting parties was concluded in the range of 2.5 million. kr in State aid, so that at least some of this can be started now. I really hope that this centre will be set up, because this is a typical example of good cooperation between the private and public sectors, with measures that can benefit us all. Large investments are needed in the future and large investments in the municipal sector are covered by water and sewerage charges. But if we're going to be able to develop the industry so that it doesn't get too expensive, and if we're going to be able to do it without too much fees, we need this cooperation to develop future technology. So I hope this is going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1058	First, thanks to the rapporteurs from the Left and thanks to the rapporteur. I think I can put myself behind every word, so then I can try to make this post brief. Water is essential for our society to work. We take it as a matter of course that there is clean and good water in the jump. But you're not going that far beyond the borders of the country until you discover that it's far from a matter of course. Until 2030, Norwegian Water estimates that there is an investment need in water and sewerage services of 490 billion. kr, and we know that climate change is leading to a greater problem of flooding, which in turn reinforces the problems of poor grids. We are far behind the pace that the government has set as a target for the replacement of the wiring grid. The Working Party therefore agrees with the proposers that it may be reasonable for the State to play a more active role, in particular in research and technology development. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposal that the Left has initially promoted, but which is now being supported by several parties, and we think it might make sense to create a gap between the state, the municipality and the supplier industry. I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation for four years. It has been a pleasure to argue and discuss with all the members of the Committee. I want both the committee and the state council present, a really good summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1069	The proposers ask the government to submit a proposal for a Norwegian model for a water technology development programme as a split layer between the state, the municipalities and the supplier industry. They point out that the water industry is facing major challenges in delivering satisfactory water and sewerage services in the future. According to the report Investment needs in the water and sewerage sector, released by Norwegian Water in 2013, an investment need has been estimated up to 2030 at 490 billion. kr, and the proposers point out that the development of innovative and cost-effective solutions can provide significant savings in both investment and operation, thus reducing the long-term fee for the inhabitants. The proposers also believe that the State must play a more active role in this important area of society and contribute to the establishment of research and technology development programmes in the water and sewerage sectors. Local authorities mainly finance the necessary investments in the water and sewerage sector through the charges paid by subscribers and do not charge the State budget. The large investments will lead to more expensive water and sewerage services in the future for residents and businesses, and a joint committee believes that it should be committed to developing more cost-effective and resilient technological solutions in the water and sewerage sectors in order to obtain the best possible and cheapest possible services in the future. A joint committee also refers to the municipal proposition for 2018, where the government mentions a new drinking water regulation requiring consideration of drinking water in municipal plans, and indicates that a new drinking water regulation has been adopted, which was adopted in force on 1 January 2017. It makes explicit demands on municipalities to take care of drinking water when drawing up the area part of the municipal plan and when granting permits under the relevant legislation. The Committee also points out that, if necessary, municipalities should take the initiative in inter-municipal cooperation in order to deal with drinking water where the water supply system is located in several municipalities. Municipalities shall also cooperate with water owners and assess the need for restrictions to protect the raw water sources and the water catchment area. The county council shall take account of drinking water in drawing up regional plans accordingly. According to the Water and Sewage Plant Act, the municipalities are mainly owned by the water and sewerage plants in Norway. Rehabilitation and a possible technology development programme are therefore the responsibility of municipalities. It is the municipalities, as owners of the water and sewerage systems, that organise and, where appropriate, cooperate in order to achieve the necessary technological development. That is why we do not support this proposal either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1088	Water is a bountiful thing – I was about to say “watery” – in Norway. We can almost let ourselves waste water. But at the same time, we are critically dependent on good drinking water and a supply-efficient water industry. Water crisis and climate change are both on the list of the five largest risk factors for the world's population in a report from the World Economic Forum. And the UN's sustainability targets underline the importance of water and sanitation. We therefore agree with the proposals from the Left that it is a good idea to come up with a proposal for a Norwegian model for a programme for further technology development in this sector, and then as a split layer between the state, the municipality and the supplier industry. We are well aware of the problem of water supply and the challenges and costs that lie in it, from the municipality of Karmøy, where I come from, with operation, cleaning and transport and ensuring good enough pressure and not least repair leakages. However, many municipalities in Norway have surface water, so the requirement for water treatment in Norway is important. Although we have a lot of water, there's a lot of rainwater, which requires treatment. Therefore, today to be able to find good ideas in other industries and find new solutions, a kind of synergy, on how we can further develop this, we think is very important. One of the main characteristics of an international country is the ability to distinguish clean water from waste water. We must have a very high focus on this – it is about public health and not least about economics and municipal activities. This is a good thing, and we give our full support to the proposal. Then, like others, I would like to thank the President, the Council of State and the Committee for a pleasant and good cooperation for four years, and wish for good summer on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1103	The Parties share the wish of the proposers for a stronger state contribution to improve water and sewerage conditions. The Central Party has promoted a proposal for a representative in the same area, which was being discussed in the Stortingen last week. Unfortunately, our proposal for a new sectoral law for the water and sewerage sector was not adopted, but I believe such a law will nevertheless push itself forward. The representatives of the Left propose a technology development programme for the water industry as a sprawl layer between the State, the municipalities and the supplier industry. It is a proposal that is supported by the Central Party and the majority of the population. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that all the departments directly concerned fully share the view that measures for the replacement and repair of the water and sewerage networks are necessary. New technologies that can make it easier and cheaper to rehabilitate the grid are therefore both necessary and strongly desired. The government councils of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Climate and Environment agree with the intentions of the draft representative, but I think they should also understand that the task is so large and so challenging that it requires broad cooperation between the state, the municipality and the business community. It is true that it is the municipalities that are responsible for most of the water and sewerage network and that it is financed through a fee based on the principle of self-sufficiency. But it takes broad cooperation to bring about the necessary technological development, and it is quite natural for the state to take part in this. This is no new matter for the government. I have mentioned the Central Party's proposal for a sectoral law on the water and sewerage sector. In the course of the Storting’s treatment of the June 2015 public health notification, an overall health and care committee asked for the same. A minority promoted in NOU 2015:16 from the Overwater Committee a similar proposal. I believe that the proposal that has been promoted to set up a research and technology development programme in which, at the start-up stage, there is a shared responsibility between the state and the municipality is necessary in order to do something in this field. It is true, as the Council of State says, that actions undertaken can be financed through increased municipal fees, but it is also quite natural that the state is a contributor to both funding and organisation at a start-up stage. There is agreement between the different departments and the parts of Stortinget that something needs to be done to ensure the quality and stop leakages in the water and sewerage networks. I would have thought that it would guarantee agreement on improvement measures as well. It's not like that. Government and government parties are evading responsibility for contributing to solutions. Unfortunately, this has been the case when these matters have been dealt with. Fortunately, we now have a majority position, which I assume is adopted. [[The President clubs.]] Finally, I would like to thank everyone for a good cooperation over four years and want a good summer!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1124	It is pleasant with good wishes, but they must also be done within speaking time!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1129	For us in the Left, this is a joyous day, in which we get the majority to set up a programme for technology development in the water industry, as a split layer between state, municipalities and the supplier industry. The left is technology optimists, and we think this can be very good. The water industry is a technology-intensive industry and has a great potential to develop and deploy new knowledge and technology. Unfortunately, as of today, there are no notable incentives to invest in research and technological development in the water industry. Investments must be increased in the years to come. The potential for saving in the development of sustainable and cost-effective technologies is high. In a start-up phase, the Programme should be a shared responsibility between the State and the municipalities, possibly with contributions from the supplier industry. The programme should mainly be financed at an annual, earmarked contribution to the water and sewerage fee. This will mean a marginal increase in the water and sewerage charge for each household, but will in the long term mean more cost-effective solutions and thus lower overall charges. Funding for water and sewerage fees can be made by revising the Municipal Water and Sewage Facilities Act. Municipalities are facing high investment needs in the future. Most of us know that they have seen what the municipalities are struggling with, not least with large leaks on special sewer pipes and also on water systems. Therefore, this is also necessary with regard to the increasing population growth and in addition to addressing the climate challenges and addressing the major maintenance set-aside. Today, municipalities mainly finance necessary investments in the water and sewerage sector through subscribers’ fees and do not burden the State budget. As I said, this goes on a self-eating basis. Increased investment will lead to more expensive water and sewerage services in the future for residents and businesses, but in the long term this will be much more reasonable. I am therefore pleased that the Committee shares the view of the Left that there should be a commitment to developing more cost-effective and sustainable technology solutions in the water and sewerage sectors. This will provide us with a basis for better and more reasonable services in the future. So it's exciting that through the revised budget we also got in place the centre of Ås. It's also about being able to move forward. And then I'd like to bring out the job of Ketil Kjeseth, who's been doing this for four years. He has stood on, and this he has had great faith in, and today we will move on. Finally, I too – within the speaking time – can wish good summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1148	Next speaker is State Council Per Sandberg, who is starting to get an additional wide portfolio.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1154	There is no doubt that access to sufficiently safe drinking water is something we all depend on. Water and sewerage are socially critical infrastructure. When you then allow yourself to point out that the municipalities are responsible, it is also important, because it is the municipalities that have responsibility and are closest to having access to water and sewerage services. Most often, these services are owned and operated by the municipalities themselves, in line with the water and sewerage law. Drinking supply in Norway is essentially good. It's important to point that out as well. However, according to reports from the Food Authority, the industry itself and the Consulting Engineers' Association, we have many major challenges with old and poor wiring networks, both on the water and sewerage side. You don't have to be a rocket scientist to understand that the leak loss we have from the water pipes in many places is big, and the same is the risk of a wire break, with the disadvantages and costs it brings. This poses a risk of contamination of water into the drinking water network. On the waste water side, the discharge of foreign water leads to the need to clean more water, with the disadvantages and costs involved. In addition, leakage from fresh drinking water leads to a significant cost loss. Therefore, the Government set out concrete objectives to increase the rate of replacement of the drinking water mains in the national objectives of the Protocol on water and health. We have followed this up by laying down clearer requirements for the operation and scheduled maintenance of the mains in the drinking water regulation that came into force from New Year this year. Norwegian Water, an important actor, has taken the initiative of a national competence centre for management technology in connection with Norway's environmental and life sciences universities at Ås. We see this clearly in connection with the draft representative. New technologies are likely to contribute to significantly more effective rehabilitation of old and poor wiring networks. It could also contribute to meeting one of the main challenges in the area of drinking water, while at the same time reducing the cost of rehabilitation in smarter technologies. However, as mentioned above, the municipalities are responsible for the proper provision of water and sewerage services to the inhabitants and, accordingly, the municipalities, which are the owners, must present the responsibilities and costs of the necessary technological developments and innovations in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1167	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1172	The Council of State says that responsibility for the rehabilitation of the water and sewerage system lies with the municipalities, and that is quite right. But I understand that he believes that the establishment of a possible technology development programme must also lie with the municipalities, and that it is the municipalities that need to organise and, if necessary, cooperate in order to achieve the necessary technological development. In repeated debates in Stortinget and in several proposals, it is requested that the State assume a greater responsibility for getting the necessary grid and sewerage upgrades started. One of the proposals is to promote a separate law for the water and sewerage sector, as it is in many other countries. Does the Council of State think that the issue of water supply and quality is an area in which the State is not at all going to go away — through the establishment of legislation or through cooperation with municipalities and the technology industry about a technology development programme for the water industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1177	No, that's not what I said. National responsibility is just as important as that of municipalities. Today it is the municipalities that are responsible for the water and sewerage sector, and it is paid by the inhabitants of the municipalities at a self-cost price, but it is clear that every government has a significant responsibility, an overall national responsibility, for having a secure network. As I said from the pulpit, the government, on 22 May 2014, adopted national targets for water and health. They are designed with the requirements on which they are based. So I also refer to what happens in universities when it comes to this. I hear there are several people who mention decisions and proposals for representatives. The undersigned herself promoted a proposal for a representative in this Chamber in 2003–2004 which I believe that everyone involved in the water and sewerage network should perhaps pick up and draw up in this debate, because this is an important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1184	I remember the proposal well, I, because we were in committee. The point of this proposal is to follow it up, but also to use at the same time the development potential of Norwegian water technology and the competence of private companies to benefit from it. It is not quite exceptional that the state is contributing to a technology and research commitment in different areas, so I have difficulty understanding the reason why we do not want to be part of this, when we see here a good opportunity to develop green technology also in Norway, which can even be a good contribution to the export market, and where you can solve important water and sewerage problems that others have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1189	It's not like you reject it in any way. In fact, I believe that the government and all responsible politicians should place considerable more emphasis on this area, both in research and in the development of new technologies. New technology also exists to a large extent in this respect, but we now have large players who have considerable skills. Norsk Vann, a non-commercial association for the water industry in Norway, is just owned by municipalities, municipal owned companies, municipal operational assistants and some private co-operative waterworks, and there is considerable competence. Then I also point out that Norsk Vann cooperates with, among other things. Oslo and NMBU at Ås are currently working towards the establishment of a national competence centre for management technology at Ås, and this is also the case at national level. And then I fully agree that this must be a cooperation between all the actors responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1194	A little in the same direction: it is shown in the proposal that 390 billion. kr shall be invested in the Norwegian grid by 2030. Internationally, the sums are enormous in terms of the needs to rehabilitate and further develop water and sewerage. Here we also have a heavy supplier industry, and it must be an objective that Norway takes its share of international investment. My question is: do you see at least that the state can contribute, so that you are allowed to use a small part of the water and sewerage fee to set up such a technology centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1199	These are not assessments made by the government, but it is clear that investments are absolutely necessary in the future. I actually think 390 billion. Sounds naïve – I think the investment need is greater than that. When you think back on what happened in the 1990s, when the municipalities were required to invest significantly in and modernise their water and sewerage networks – especially in the case of cleaning – you didn't get to the goal at that time either. I seem to remember that in 2002–2003–2004 there was a default on this network, this infrastructure, at 5 pst. in the year, and it is clear that when the wealth, the value of this infrastructure is approaching 1000 billion. kr, is due to be significant. That is why it should perhaps be in everyone's interest to put in place the funding mechanism, so that we first and foremost re-entered. Then you get to start the rehabilitation and then the renewal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1204	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1211	We started today by discussing how the public can cooperate with the private sector on well-functioning markets, and this is a brilliant example of how to do so. Then all of a sudden the government is against it. That's kind of weird. I think it's going to be a little good day man axe shaft. I just have to refer to the comments that the majority have, where we call Norsk Vann, that we are of course familiar with. As the rapporteur, I have worked closely with them on these comments, and we mention in our remarks just this planned centre at Ås, which is designed to stimulate the development of forward-looking management technology in order to implement the huge investments in the grid in a cost-effective, sustainable and innovative way. For example, there is a need for further development of various unearthed methods of line renewal, which are typically green technology, which will be an amazing grant and make it incredibly much easier to do some of the operations that are absolutely necessary, and – as the council pointed out – where it is much to do. Here there is a need both to do a great job and to develop technology. Here the state, the municipalities and the private sector can cooperate very well. I think it's going to be very ridiculous that you can't say that yes, we do this, when it's clear and even in the water table that the government and the cooperation parties granted 2.5 million on 7 June. kr just to this center, which they are now saying is no, they can't be on it. It's mysterious how this is being politicized in a very negative way, when Norsk Vann says that yes, that's what we want to do, and now you've even negotiated money for it. I really hope that this is not a one-off event, that we are now getting started, that we are doing this, because this is not a big deal about the state budget, but there can be a lot of money to save for consumers, and Norwegian business can have an important boost in this. It is also important, as the representative Elvesuen was up here and said, that we can also have the opportunity to earmark a small contribution over the water and sewage fee to develop this further. It's very important. SV is completely because we're doing it. But I have no connection with the fact that the government parties do not now agree to this proposal when they have agreed to finance some of this in budgetary negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1220	I'm not going to extend the debate, but try to be a little short. Water and sewerage are the secret services of municipalities in many ways. But it's an important work that's done. It is impossible to imagine that you have municipalities and agglomerations at all without control of water and sewerage. That's a lot of money. This is estimated to be 490 billion. SEK in investment to upgrade the mains network in Norway by 2030, but there are also savings going beyond what only applies to the mains. I had the pleasure of being a city councillor in Oslo with responsibility for water and sewerage, and when we carried out the Midgardsworm – the largest extension of the waste water in Bjørvika – it could have been done because new technology had been developed with grave-free solutions, so that the work could be done at the same time as the urban development that has now taken place, without one having to do it in order. What the city earned and saved on such a solution is enormous. It is difficult at all to determine how much. Then there are new challenges. It's not just water and drains. There is also everything about climate adaptation to be done in the years ahead. It's about finding new solutions not only by piped things, but also by retrieving what's put into tubes, to find new methods of cleaning. Here, streams and rivers provide a completely different contribution to cities and agglomerations, and can play a completely different role in the years ahead and in the exploitation of the resources that are there, whether it is biogas or making the climate footprint smaller. But the most important thing is the opportunities that exist internationally. Investments to be made with water and sewerage internationally are enormous, to be made with climate adaptation, to be made in new mega-cities that need to be controlled on water and sewerage. It is important that we participate in the technological development and that Norwegian companies and a Norwegian supplier industry can also take their share of the competition and opportunities there. I am very pleased that the Committee supports the proposal, that we can now see the launch of both research and technology development programmes and the agreement we have with the government parties on a first start of 2.5 million. kr. So I think of this as a start, and then we'll see how we finance. There is funding here, and that's what's positive, by using the water and fee fee a little more creatively. It doesn't matter in the big context, but the results and the returns can be huge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1232	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1248	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1264	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1273	This is a proposal from the Central Party that it should be set off by the necessary area to maintain Kjeller Airport, not least that of defence history, after Kjeller was adopted when we discussed the long-term defence plan. This concerns, among other things: on the future of the small airline environment, not only in the east but in Norway, because Kjeller today accounts for one third of the total small airline activity in Norway – I remember that it was at Fornebu in its time, and then it was moved to Kjeller when Fornebu was closed – and the Committee has therefore sent letters to the Council of State, which underlines in its response that the runway at Kjeller will be available for the small airline environment in the region until the end of 2023, following a gradual decline in defence activity. In the light of the replies of the Council of State, the Committee therefore asks the Government to present a case on a permanent solution for small air traffic in the Oslo area. This might be the most important thing in this setting. As far as the proposal is concerned, it is important to be able to combine the preservation of flight and defence history on Kjeller with the urban development of the Lillestrøm and Kjeller areas. Work has been started on an aircraft protection plan, in which objects to be protected shall be identified. The Committee says that we are awaiting this work, but that we point out that Kjeller, with its location between the dense city centre and the Research Park, constitutes a unique regional land reserve, and that there are also state grounds, i.e. that it is the Defense that owns Kjeller, through Defence Building. But it is such that it is Skedsmo municipality and not Defence Building that has planning authority, and it must be Skedsmo municipality that is leading the post-use of the area. Therefore, we believe that Stortinget cannot over test Skedsmo municipality as the regulatory authority for the urban development of the Kjeller area. That's what we think is going to be interfering with municipal autonomy. So in this setting, there's two considerations to take. One is for the small airline environment in the eastern part of the world, which we ask the government to make sure that there is a place to be after Kjeller's closure, and the other is for the urban development in Skedsmo.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1284	The representative Nybakk has in a glittering way explained the vision of this case. That's why I only have a small, short note. For the Progress Party, it is important to point out that we must have respect for local democracy and Skedsmo Municipality as planning authority in terms of what is to happen. It could seem that this proposal for a representative would be the nearest leader of the municipality, and not the opposite. Actually, it can't be like that. We have to accept that it is the municipality as the planning authority that has to present its own. At the same time, as the Committee points out, it is important that we not least take care of the interests associated with the small aircraft activity, what is involved in the protection of aircraft. I think that the committee has come up with a nice way in the vote as well. The Council of State also clearly states through its letter of reply that these things should be followed up. It's reassuring, and we're looking forward to these things being taken care of, and seeing the entire Oslo area in the context of small-scale activity. Then we have to accept that the planning authority is with the municipality, and it is important that we establish.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1293	I am pleased that a Joint Committee says that it is important to take care of and ensure the protection of aircraft in Norway. Norway has a proud flight history that is little known for the eel. After several visits to Kjeller, I have had an interesting insight into history and today's activities, driven by positive fires. Kjeller is currently accounting for one third of the total number of small flights in Norway. This action must, in the opinion of the Centre Party, be localized for the future. When the Stortinget decided to expand the main aerodrome, it was also foreseen that a small aerodrome would be established in the Oslo area after leaving the small aeroplanes and the small aeroplane environment in the region. In this context, a joint committee asks the government to put forward a case for a permanent solution for small-scale air traffic in the Oslo area. That's good, and it has to be followed up. The Kjeller Air Station is today owned by the Defence of Defence. The Ministry of Defence is responsible for the sector’s cultural memory. Int. 62 S for 2016-2017, on the long-term plan, stated a joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, that it considered that ‘Kjeller’s defence-historical importance is respected in cooperation with the municipality of Skedsmo’. In order to ensure the preservation of Kjeller’s defence-historical interpretation, it must be set of the necessary area. The area to be set aside must be in close dialogue between Skedsmo Municipality, the Riksantikvar and the land owner, i.e. the Defence of Defence Building. The current municipality plan for Skedsmo for the period 2015-2026 includes: indicated that the area control plan shall include the clearance and assessment of the fitting in of museum activities and the provision of survival centres for flying veteran aeroplanes on Kjeller, including the adaptation of flight strips. This has been followed up and concreteized through the Kjeller Air History Cultural Park Foundation, KFC, its feasibility study, which is a paid assignment from the municipality of Skedsmo. The Riksantikvaren has started its own assessments of the building stock and the plant at Kjeller. To Flynyt 19 May 2016, Head of Division Hanna Kosonen Geiran of the Cultural Memory Department of the Riksantikvaren states that ‘this will relate to the military-historical significance and the aviation-historical’. Furthermore, the Geiran suggests that any protection may be by design and building law or by cultural monuments. In Flynyt 14 January 2017, it was found that Skedsmo’s spokesman, Ole Jacob Flätten, from the Workers’ Party, was in agreement with riksantikvar Jørn Holme that the value of flight history and Kjeller’s identity as one of the world’s oldest airports is important to take care of. Suggested searches to preserve Kjeller's cultural history through state contributions It is entirely in line with the leadership of the current municipality plan in Skedsmo, and does not mean that the Stortinget intervenes in local, ongoing planning processes. There is a full agreement that the municipality of Skedsmo is the governing authority, which is also stated in the proposal. The central party wants the government to put forward a plan for how the state can contribute to the preservation of Kjeller's national cultural historical values. This shall be done through good dialogue between local authorities and the State and should be in the interests of all. I'm taking up the proposals of the Center Party alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1316	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsette, mentioned the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1321	There are many cultural historical values on Kjeller that are worth taking care of, primarily related to the building mass. The flight strip itself may be integrated into a new part of the city as the main street or otherwise made visible in retrospect. But the fact that modern small airplanes should be able to lighten and take off can hardly be said to be of cultural historical value. Kjeller Airport has a large area and is located in the middle of the research environment at Kjeller and Lillestrøm station. Lillestrøm has been designated as one of the regional cities in Akershus to take a significant part of the population growth to come. At Kjeller Airport you have the opportunity to build a completely new part of the city, from the very bottom of it, without it coming into conflict with either food soil, open air areas or existing settlements. In other words, it is the Children's Egg in sustainable urban development. With IFE conducting world-leading research in climate and energy as the closest neighbour, the ambition for such a city – built from the bottom – must be that it will be Norway’s first 100 pst. carbon-neutral urban compartment. IFE is already involved in the planning process. Kjeller Airport has a long history and has been an important base for Norwegian defence. As the city has grown around the airport, the location has become increasingly challenging, but there has been a broad local understanding of the needs of the defence and the background of its location. But when the defense no longer needs the area after 2023, it is a rather crazy suggestion that an airport located in the middle of a city should be converted into a clean civil airport for air transport and other small aircraft activities. Kjeller became the main base for the small aeroplanes in the Oslo area in 1998, as a temporary solution until the issue of new main small aerodrome was resolved – I think it was never followed up. This happened without the approval of the municipality and was contrary to the regulatory purpose. This temporary period has now lasted 19 years, and precisely because of the location of the aerodrome in the middle of a city, there are strict restrictions on the number of flight hours and the prohibition of both landing training and dark flying. In other words, it is not an ideal resort for small aircraft activity. Therefore, it is indeed important that there is a permanent solution for small-scale air traffic in the Oslo area, but it should already be established that a solution after 2023 cannot be in the middle of Lillestrøm, either in the short term or in the long term. Finally, I have a small greeting from the Vice-President of the Left in Skedsmo, Boye Bjerkholt, who, like me, believes it is absurd that the Central Party, who says they will listen to local democracy, wants the state to overrun the municipality on such a central local issue as Kjeller Airport is for Skedsmo Municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1336	I believe that the rapporteur, the representative of the Left and others have been at the heart of the proposal. It is important for the government to follow up the priorities set out in the long-term plan and the military camp at Kjeller with an aerodrome was decided to close. This means that the activity will be discontinued especially after 2023. It is important, as many have been concerned, to stress that there is a defence-historical significance of Kjeller, and it must be taken care of in cooperation with the municipality of Skedsmo. But it is something other than looking over Skedsmo municipality as a planning authority, and I am very pleased that the committee so clearly states that it is Skedsmo municipality, and not Defence Building, which is a planning authority, and that it is Skedsmo municipality and their wishes that must lead the post-use at Kjeller. Several people have argued that this is a very attractive area, both for the development of the city and for the development of dwellings, and I do not think it is very natural that the Defence Building or the Defence will be leading the post-use that the municipality locally wants to carry out. Any interest in potential post-use must therefore be treated as part of the planning process and both the defence-historical importance of Kjeller and the way in which the small aircraft environment can be managed must be part of it and clarified in the future regulatory process. As the Committee has noted, the Minister for Transport has also answered some of these questions related to the future strategy for small airports in Norway. He also assumes that work is under way on a strategy and that further work will be considered to address the different options for small aircraft activity existing in the Eastern region. It is also in the interests of the defence sector to be able to translate what has been adopted and sold in a way that provides good revenue for the sector, because it also helps to finance the efforts to be made in the long-term plan. Finally, I would just like to mention that there has also been a significant local political pressure in this matter, but with the opposite sign of what the proposers are basing on, namely that it is such a global political environment in Skedsmo that the Storting must not interfere in the regulatory process to be carried out in the municipality. I believe that we should respect that planning process, and I think it also has a twist of irony that it is the Center Party that proposes to intervene and override local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1351	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1356	As long-term local politicians and state politicians, I am well aware that the state should and should retain the cultural historical values of the nation and, of course, do so in cooperation with the municipality. There is no one here who has said that one should override anyone, but that the state and the Ministry of Defence take care of the cultural-historical monuments, in fact, that lie here, because this is from the pre-war era. I was in a plane myself – a really nice lady! It was built before the war, sold to Sweden and returned. If there isn't a touchdown strip, don't take these flies off. The left says it has no cultural historical value to have a stripe of land – yes, it does. One doesn't necessarily have the one lying there today, but one must have the ability to take off these planes. If you don't, there's little sense in having them standing inside a hangar somewhere. The question is, how will the Council of State follow up the Committee's recommendation in setting up the long-term plan to facilitate the preservation of the defence-historical values of Kjeller? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1365	It has been a work to secure the Military Historical Forum in Eastern Europe. That flight collection is over, it was concluded not long ago. In addition, Defence Building – as it also says in the setting – is set to have a dialogue with the municipality about this. I believe that is a quite natural follow-up to both the decision that exists and the cultural historical significance of the aviation environment – and not least the daily operation and activity of small aircraft. That is something other than what the Centre Party is proposing, in particular in proposal No. 3, where you say: ‘The Government asks the Government to put forward a case for a permanent solution for small-scale air traffic in the Oslo area. Until such time as such a plan is in place, the government must contribute to the completion of at least 1000 metres of the day’s runway at Kjeller.’;» This means that you directly interfere with the regulation planning process in the municipality. So if there's not a plan ready by the end of 2023, that's to say that you bond land, so the municipality can't use it. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1378	Once again, I would like to remind the Council of State of many processes – both that have occurred and that happen – relating to either the nature conservation area or cultural, protective memorials around the country. Of course, the state should do its job of keeping national monuments, something else would be hopeless. And it's not like there's been anything said about this – yes, yes, it's been said that one runs over the local government, but then it's been on behalf of the nation. This is a memorial -- it's flights, it's Norwegian flight history, it's a built-in plane. How many people in Norway know about the amazing story that's at Kjeller? And then there's one here talking about that no, you can't take care of this, because then one runs over the local government. In any case, it is entirely new that this government says it should not go in and override anything locally. So I just want to ask, is it the government's hold even when it comes to other cultural-historical memorials, that an absolutely no one should interfere with any planning processes? In that case, it's... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1387	Time is up – Councillor Eriksen Soreide, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1392	Now it happens again – what has happened in recent times – that the representative Navarsete says that I have said things that I have not said at all. I have not said that we should not take care of the flight collection. On the contrary, I have said that the state is going to engage. The Ministry of Defence was very committed to keeping the Air History collection at the Gardermoen, and it was for the very same reason: this has value. But that's not to intervene directly in planning processes in order to reach a decision that you obviously don't want locally. The strong resistance that emerges in the May 23 issue of Rome is a very good picture of it – that you want a dialogue to find good solutions, but not to bond the area or not to be able to continue to develop the area. There are many ways to solve both small-air traffic and cultural history. We'll take good care of that. As the Minister for Transport also says in his letter to the Committee, there are processes in place to find lasting solutions for small-scale air traffic in the Eastern region.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1401	That's very good. I have one last question, connect to the landing strip. Whether a secure hanger for the aircraft it has is not very valuable if one does not have a long flight strip that is long enough for a flight to take off. The whole point when a team flies by as great a way as one has done – I just have to say that I am so impressed with the environment on Kjeller, both the small aircraft environment and not least those who take care of the cultural historical values, it is impressive – must be that one must also take care of a landing strip. As I said, how long will it take for those who know more about this than I do, to discuss it, but will the Council of State ensure that it is also possible to record the great planes that one has held at any time since the pre-war period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1408	The President reminds us that there are lines to go through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1413	President, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1418	I'll be able to answer anyway, President! As I've been in, any area you set aside for the runway in the middle of the area where Kjeller is, of course, will bind the opportunity to do something about the area, whether it's building homes, or it's developing for nutritional purposes. It is as the representative Raja said, that having a lot of small air traffic in an area that is now to be expanded more and more – with housing and business activity – is something the municipality has not seen or wants to see. That is why the Ministry of Transport now explores different options for different airports from which small aircraft traffic in the Eastern region can operate, and also different locations where cultural historical collections of veteran aircraft can be preserved and maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1425	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1432	Kjeller is a unique area. Firstly, Norway's oldest airport, which was established 105 years ago, and I'm not mistaken, is one of the oldest airports in the world that is still in use. 105 years ago, the airport laid the foundation for a later aircraft factory, which was subsequently taken over by the Defence. It left the foundation for the establishment of the defence on Kjeller. Kjeller became a large base in the Air Force and the house, among other things. for many years the Air Force Supply Command. With the defense followed by every major research institute, what we often mention today as the Kjeller environment. We got the Swedish Defence Research Institute, we got the Institute of Nuclear Energy, which is now called the Institute of Energy Engineering, IFE, and after and after many other very good and exciting research institutes. At the same time, Kjeller is very centrally located, so to speak, in the middle of Lillestrøm town, one of the most growing cities in Eastern Europe – I kept on saying towns, but then I had Christmas when I returned home, so I get to say one of the most growing cities in Eastern Europe. It's clear that we need to find solutions when the defense no longer needs the large areas. The challenge today is that F-16 land and take off at Kjeller when they go to the workshop there, at AIM Norway, and when it is no longer needed in the future, there is no need for the large areas required by the long runway and associated areas of security zones and such. So we have to keep the aviation and defence history – I fully agree – but at the same time it is clear that the area must also be used for urban development. We must both take care of history and take care of the jobs at Kjeller, and we must ensure that parts of the areas can be used for urban development. And then I think maybe we'll talk a little bit past each other, because I think most people agree that we have to find solutions within it, but it has to be the municipality that is responsible for it. When I say that I think we're talking a little bit past each other, it's probably because the Central Party's first candidate in Akershus was out in Rome's magazine and said that Akershus Centerpart will preserve Kjeller Airport, and the local Centerpart representative followed up: we don't want housing at Kjeller Airport. That, I think, was also one of the reasons why a closely coordinated political environment in Skedsmo sent the letter they sent to Stortinget and informed that this must be the responsibility of the municipality, but of course the state must contribute – both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1441	So the chairmanship of Skedsmo comes from making such a decision. I think it's a little strange that Skedsmo Municipality, which itself has highlighted the cultural historical values of Kjeller through municipal decisions and processes, is now against the state's concrete approach to how the state can contribute to the preservation of these values. Assistance to the municipality may be provided by cooperation on the regulatory plan, by contributing to the preservation and maintenance of historical aircraft, by contributing to the conservation of buildings and installations with or with protective status, and by contributing to the organisation of any aircraft centre. In my opinion, it will be of great benefit to the municipality, and there is a comprehensive aviation environment that believes that the state should engage and contribute to the national cultural historical values of Kjeller. The left's representative says that aircraft can't be of cultural historical value. I don't agree. If the cultural historical values relate to the beautiful flies that are on Kjeller, they will have a value for the future. So small airfield is something else, and this can be seen in context, but one doesn't have to see it in context. I am very pleased that the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Transport have undertaken to do this work and to find good solutions in cooperation with the municipality. There is no denying that the municipality has a regulatory image, but it is also very difficult to see that the state should not take advantage of the cultural historical values represented by the environment in Kjeller, and also of course follow up the need for small aircraft, which is important for the whole of Austland, but which is also actually important for the whole country. I record that even in my own country, in the West, the small airline environment benefits greatly from the competence environment that Kjeller stands for on small aircraft, because it is the largest small airport in the country, and they are very good at cooperating with small airline clubs all over the country, which is a positive value. I hope and believe, after we have got the case on the agenda, that we will get ahead of ourselves with the plans and the cooperation that will be needed to resolve this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1452	This is an important matter for Akershu County, and not least locally, where, as mentioned earlier, we have good representation of the Left People. We also have a Vice-President in Skedsmo from the Left who is very concerned about this. I do not initially disagree with Mr Navarsete's representative that we should respect the cultural historical values that are worth taking care of, at Kjeller. It's connected to the building mass. I've already said that in the main post, and that's where we agree. The flight strip may be integrated into a metropolitan area as the main street or otherwise made visible in retrospect. But to be honest, modern small airplanes should be able to lighten and take off, can hardly be said to be of cultural historical value. Locally, there has been a great deal of understanding that the defence needs location, and there has been a great deal of understanding of the activity that has been there. But when the defense no longer needs this area after 2023, it's a little crazy to leave an activity around civil aviation for aviation and other small aircraft activity in the middle of a city that needs that area and can build up a city from the very bottom of which can be Norway's first 100 pst. carbon-neutral urban compartment. As stated, IFE, which conducts world-leading research in climate and energy, is already well involved as the nearest neighbour. It is not the most optimal situation for those engaged in the operation of small aeroplanes, for as mentioned, there are relatively strict restrictions on the number of flight hours and there is a ban on both landing training and dark flying. Similarly, it is not an ideal place of refuge for small aircraft activity and environment. You have to put that in place, you have to find other solutions. But that it should be in the middle of the Lillestrøm center, there is no good solution either in the short term or in the long term. Nevertheless, a central point that the Centre Party should be concerned with is something they often raise up elsewhere. It is a matter of listening to local democracy. But in this case, they want the State to overrun the municipality in such a central local question as Kjeller Airport is for Skedsmo Municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1466	It's hard to stand in the spat, and I notice that the Center Party, which usually frees the local environments, is now freeing itself to a historical environment and so comes into a spat that makes it difficult to keep the balance. The issue of a small aerodrome for a total of small air traffic and a small aerodrome for a historical aeroplane collection is also addressed in the Spagat. But I am the former rapporteur. I have an extremely high level of respect for the municipality's planning authority and the municipality's own social development task, and here we are talking about planning large areas in a central municipality in the East. Maybe that's why the municipality is not so interesting for the Center Party in this context. But in addition to that, I'm also a former cultural politician, and I've been in and head of the cultural committee at Oppegård. That's why I'm also very concerned about respect for cultural historical values. I think the case rapporteur has made an excellent presentation, and I think the committee has done a good job just to reflect the need and value of the cultural historical values, the building masses, the visible memories of old Kjeller, which are important – without therefore also having to face the situation of flying away from those who are going to become central residential areas for a lot of new people in the municipality concerned. We have adopted a long-term defence plan. I know that the Central Party did not agree with the decisions we made there, but the background has been explained: the defence does not need this runway after the phase-out of F-16 and Sea King in the period 2020-2022. The Minister of Defence has also made an excellent statement. I am pleased with the sensitivity shown by the Minister for Transport in this matter. I am convinced that we must – and we must and will – find a good solution for the historical environment at Kjeller. Memories may lie there, as the representative of the Left has also pointed out. But the central eastern region, which is crowded, needs to develop its areas. Then you have to be able to keep on developing, but it has to go hand in hand – and then you can't stand in the spa.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1479	I think maybe the dispute between the representatives of Navarsete and Raja is a little bit crazier than what it really needs. Let me first say a little bit about the small-scale activity, or what in the industry is called GA activity, General Aviation. So this is about the small aircraft activity, how many of the aircraft were in charge at Fornebu until the aerodrome was shut down in 1998. When Fornebu was closed, they naturally had to be moved to other places, and as part of the treatment of the Gardermoen decision in their time, I believe even the Stortinge made a decision that there would be other alternatives in the East. To put it the way it is: it didn't work out, and the municipalities aren't exactly in line to have a small airfield with them. So really, we've never found a solution to where the small flying activity should be. There's one side of the thing, which we should now blow alive again. That is why it is gratifying for the Minister of Transport to write that he should start work on it. Because it is clear that here, the State must also help to find a solution for the GA activities and small aeroplanes. So it's the historical planes, and there's a slightly different debate, but both new planes and old planes need the runway. What has been launched as an idea on Kjeller is that the old planes, the historic planes, should be able to hold hold on to Kjeller and with shorter runways also be able to operate from Kjeller in a type of aircraft and defence historical environment. These are very interesting plans, and as far as I can see, the municipality is also in a positive position to do so. But it is clear that the municipality will be there – and not just be there, the municipality will be in the driving position in that process. The municipality is responsible, but the state has to contribute, and I think the case rapporteur presented this in an excellent way at the beginning of the debate. Finally, in the past, urban development was often the construction of housing in one area and the provision of space for economic development in another area. Modern urban development is that we combine this. And that's where Kjeller has unique opportunities to take care of aviation and defence history, we can take care of business and research environments and even facilitate new ones, we can outsource residential development areas, and we can outsource areas for recreation and other types of activities. So Kjeller has great opportunities. It is a very exciting area that it will be important for the municipality and for the whole region to develop in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1492	Just a brief comment to clarify what I feel might be a misunderstanding. The representative Myrli also said something about this. The Committee asks the government to raise a case for a permanent solution for small air traffic in the Oslo area, which is also a major part of small air traffic throughout Norway, but we are not asking for it to be at Kjeller. This is quite essential, I think. We have a commitment to this small airline environment, and it actually goes back to the treatment of the main aerodrome in the East, in St.prp. No 90 for 1991-1992, so it was a long time ago. It was then decided that a small aerodrome would be established in the eastern part of the region. It hasn't happened. That is why Kjeller is still being held up. So you can't do that as Kjeller is going to develop urbanly, which obviously has to be done by the regulatory authority, which is Skedsmo Municipality. That's why it's important that we now ask the government to ensure that the small-air environment gets an airport in the Eastern region.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1497	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1513	The introduction of female protection obligations in Norway during this period has given a great deal of positive attention to the defence. The Norwegian defense is now recruiting top motivated young people from all over the school, and it has been interesting to see how the defense has turned around to receive and train soldiers of both sexes – still most boys, but more and more girls – who will serve for the homeland, and for this I believe the defense deserves honor. The preliminary status report of the Landmaktuðringen, which was presented yesterday, calls for a reform of the protection obligation, so that the training of soldiers is better adapted to a top-notch modern defence, but this becomes a matter for the new enlargement. On the other hand, the closing set-aside shall today address proposals for the regulation of compensation for compulsory compulsory ratings as of 1 July of the current year. The Committee has noted that Prop. 139 S for 2016-2017 is historical, as this is the last time the regulation of the soldier compensation is done on its own. Subsequently, from 2018 onwards, the compensation will be set out in the annual budget proposal. For many years, the economic benefits of the soldiers have been regulated for government employees. The Ministry of Defence has, in its present proposal, in general laid down the minimum wage level for adult unskilled workers in the country. The Committee has unanimously agreed to this, refers to the proposal and otherwise has no comments. Finally, this is my last case as a big-time representative, and there have been twelve event-rich years at Stortinget. It has been a privilege to represent Troms and become acquainted with so many good colleagues here in Stortinget. It also offers a unique opportunity to get to know Norway better. Thank you for the cooperation of the co-representatives and the Councils of State with which we have been involved in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. Thanks also to all the employees of Storting, who each day make it possible for us as representatives to carry out our job in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1524	And thank you to the representative Elisabeth Vik Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1529	I am also discouraged by the thought of the closing comments of the representative Elisabeth Vik Aspaker, and I would like to return the thank you. That thanks also go to the other members of the Committee for very good cooperation over four years. The reason why I do that is simply that last week we had debates that I think most of us in the committee remembered were the last ones that the committee should have, but then we had two more issues. That's why I want to repeat that thanks, and that's a nice opportunity to do it, precisely because – as the case-rapporteur said – this is the last time we regulate the military settlement through our own proposition. From next year this will be included in the budget proposal, and not only that, in addition, we will be regulating hereafter with a background in the basic amount of popular money, not in the wage statements. It is expected to provide both a reinforced payment and a greater predictability, and that is also why we do it. As the rapporteur said – it is a historic day considering that this is the last time we are dealing with this proposition, but also a little historical because it is the last matter that the current Foreign and Defence Committee is dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1536	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1552	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 15 minutes to the President, 10 minutes to the main figures of the other parties, 5 minutes to the parliamentary leaders and 10 minutes to the members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1561	When the Riksrevision in Document 1 states that neither the Ministry of Defence nor the Ministry of Justice and Defence, individually or collectively, are able to protect essential and decisive objects, i.e. infrastructure, water, electricity, food supply, functions that cannot be handled without for more than seven days, as the DSB defines it, or the castle, the Stortinget and military installations, such as the important buildings they are – what is that? Well, it's very serious, and it has to be taken seriously by the Storting. It has been done by the Control and Constitutional Committee. Two hearings have been held — one open and one closed. There was a closed procedure here in the Storting yesterday, which was absolutely necessary to illuminate the aspects of the matter that the government will not bring to the public's attention. The closed meeting was also essential for all representatives of Storting to get a full overview of the matter and to express their views. So we're informed, but the same thing can't be said on a general basis. The answers we received yesterday on why the government has not implemented instructions and complied with the Code on Object Protection, are excluded from the public. The Minister of Defence has chosen to keep important information on security secret. That's too bad. In terms of population security, the population should be involved. That is an important prerequisite for an open democracy. The transparency line that was followed after 22 July should have been continued. I'm sorry again that the government has chosen to break that line. The majority believe that the summary could have been public. One of the reasons for this is that the Ministry of Defence itself has revealed how sensitive the information is, through its own proposal for an open summary, which clearly shows that the differences are not large in areas other than the degree of criticism of the ministry's own efforts. The lack of transparency is serious, but it is the great seriousness of the Riksrevision report that is, after all, the most important. As shown in the setting, it is split. In particular, the Right Party and the Advance Party disagree with the majority’s view on the issue of secrecy, and they disagree with the conclusions of the National Audit Office. The left largely agrees with the analyses, but reserves itself against the concept of ‘strongly critical’, which I will come back to later in the article. The starting point for the Riksrevision study is 22 July 2011, when Norway was hit by the most serious terrorist incident ever in peacetime. The nation was united in grief, but also in despair that society had not been better able to stop the perpetrator. A special committee, chaired by Knut Arild Hareide, was set up. It gave its position on 1 March 2012. Alexandra Bech Gjørv was assigned to lead a commission, and it was clearly communicated that the Commission would write the July 22 story undefiled and honest. The six main conclusions of the Commission were crushing. In its statement of 28 August 2012, the Prime Minister gave the following recognition to the Stortinget: ‘The Commission demonstrates a failure in Norwegian preparedness and preparedness culture that is more extensive and deeper than I was prepared for. It is difficult to take over." Prime Minister Stoltenberg lamented the failure of preparedness. An overall political Norway agreed that the recommendations of the Gjørv Commission, as proposed by the Special Committee, should be followed up. Important measures were already under work or under way by the then government. An important part of the follow-up was precisely the instruction, entitled ‘Instructions on the Protection and Protection of Objects in the Use of Defence and Police Security Forces in Peace, Crisis and War’, which was established at kgl. resolution of 24 August 2012, with effect from the same day. It is the compliance of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and Defence with this directive that the Riksrevision has examined, and that is what this matter is about today. In addition, it has been examined whether the Defence and Police Directorate are complying with the Security Act and with the Object Protection and Basic Protection Regulation of their own security-worthy features. The Committee notes that the Riksrevision made the following main findings in its studies: Firstly, the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence have not strengthened and improved cooperation between the police and the defence. Important measures to ensure good cooperation and preparation have not been implemented. Thus, there is a risk that important objects will not be able to maintain their operations or functionality in critical situations. The two departments have also failed to ensure that the Directorate of Police and Defence have established a permanent basic security for their own protective features. The final remark of the National Audit Office is that neither the Minister of Justice nor the Minister of Defence has given a full explanation as to why the work on object security and basic security has not been given the necessary priority. The Directorate of Police and Defence, the former and the current Minister of Justice and Preparedness, the Minister of Defence and the Prime Minister have agreed to the Riksrevision's findings and criticism. However, the Chief of Defense, as I see it affordable, is present here today, said in the open hearing that he disagreed with the Riksrevision that there is a likelihood that neither the police nor the Defense, together or individually, will be able to exercise adequate protection of important objects when a threat situation warrants it. In reply to Mr Gruvean's question about the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Defence agreed with the Riksrevision's conclusion, the Minister for Defence said: «As I was in the audience, I agree with the findings and recommendations and the main conclusions that come, but I also needed to say that we have the ability to secure.» The majority believe that the conclusions of the National Audit Office are correct. The finds of the Riksrevision have done, substantiating this. However, the members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party refer to what the head of defence said at the open hearing that he did not share the conclusion of the Riksrevision. I would like to say it this way: it is a very remarkable situation we are facing here – that the members of the Right Party and the Progressive Party, the representatives of the government parties, choose to agree with the head of defence rather than their own State Council. At the open hearing, the Prime Minister said: ‘The government was not aware that the situation was like this until we actually received the Riksaudition report and got a status on it. That was when you first saw that it was worse. So it is that both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice are among the areas that under this government have been economically priorityed. Home protection has been a priority in economic terms, giving it greater opportunities, the defence in general has been a priority in economic terms, and the Ministry of Justice has received considerably increased appropriations every year.’ This is probably some of the answer to why the Prime Minister's office was not aware of the situation before the Riksrevision's report became known. The assumption has been that emergency work has been on track. At the same time, the Gjørv Commission identifies this as a specific challenge for any government: the follow-up to the achievement of results, rather than the assumption that they are, is crucial. Alexandra Bech Gjørv said it this way: ‘Following the fact that the result is actually achieved is a very important lesson that we can all learn, and all of you who are in responsible positions must make sure that there is a change in it. That's what we're asking for." The Prime Minister said in the Questionnaire on 31 May 2017: "I also said that we were too bad. I think we should admit that. There was too poor follow-up of the object protection.’;» This is not a tear-off quote. The majority agree with the National Audit Office that compliance with the instructions has not been given priority either by the Ministry of Defence or by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice and Security should take the responsibility for securing the population that was imposed on any politician after 22 July. A central part of the preparedness as object protection is was not followed up by the responsible state councils. It is characterised by the Riksrevisionen as ‘very serious’. That term is used exceptionally, e.g. where there is a risk to life and health. The majority of the Committee agrees with this and considers that the lack of priority of object protection is therefore highly critical. The majority believe that neglect of such a character should have been caught by a coordinating body at the Prime Minister's Office, whose primary task is to ensure stronger and faster governance of social security and national preparedness. It obviously hasn't happened. That too is regrettable. The National Audit Office has also examined whether the Defence and Police Directorate comply with the requirements for basic protection of their own protective features. The report shows that the two departments have failed to do so, despite the fact that the Storting clearly stressed that measures of this kind should be implemented without delay. Alexandra Bech Gjørv said about the risk awareness challenge, that you intellectually know that it can happen, but that you really don't think it happens. But the government of Stoltenberg took responsibility and started an extensive work with a view to improving preparedness. The majority promised the people and each other that we would not even stand unprepared, and gathered behind a series of measures to correct all the errors that had been revealed. Representatives of the right parties used the lack of security on the black day of July 2011 to promote their own implementation power in 2013. I even remember that representatives of the right-wing parties from this pulpit suggested that this would not happen if they had run. When we know all this and have it as a back cover for the handling of this matter, I would say that then there is no excuse for not having done what the Stortinge decided to do, and that we all agreed – not now and not after 22 July 2011. The majority of the Committee therefore subscribes to the findings and conclusions of the Riksrevision and concludes itself that the government has not been able to follow up the Storting's decisions and assumptions on object protection and that it is highly critical. However, the majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Right and the Progressive Party, is of the opinion that the learning that would result from the review of the fatal incident in 2011 is most important. It also appears that the National Audit Office's report has taught. If the situation is better now, there is no answer to the Riksrevision question. Your report is not about that. Nevertheless, it is a very important question for all of us. Has the Minister of Justice and Security and the Minister of Defence corrected the errors, in the sense that, after the Riksrevision's findings, they have now begun to give priority to object security? Fortunately, a lot points to that. Both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice and preparedness indicate that a number of measures have been taken. It's two to three years late, but it's still good to hear. It shows that the work of the National Audit Office is important, that something happens when they find very serious shortcomings, as in this case. As a conclusion to this article, I refer to the proposals for decisions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1642	Let me first start by thanking the case rapporteur for the work on the matter over a long time. We disagree with a number of questions, as indicated in the vote, which will also be reflected in this debate. It has been a demanding matter for the committee to deal with, so I would like to thank the members of the committee for the conscientious work done in this matter. I would also like to thank the National Audit Office for their thorough work. We fully acknowledge their findings, but there are some conclusions we disagree with, and I'm going to come back to that. The most important task of a State is to ensure the security of its citizens in the face of violent perpetrators of different kinds. That is why we must constantly work to prevent, reduce risks and improve society's preparedness. The National Audit Office's report and its follow-up help us to close some gaps in this area faster than we would otherwise likely have done, and the report is therefore important. Let me go further to some specific points that I think it is important to be said from this platform in this debate. First of all, some of the information in this case complex has not been available to the public: some claim that the government has kept secret parts of the report to protect itself from criticism. That's wrong. Firstly, Stortinget has had access to all documents in the case. Secondly, all criticism has also been known to the public. Anyone who reads newspapers or listens to radio in this country knows what this case is about. The government has no idea that a small part of the case complex should be secret. Then you have to ask yourself, why is it? We'll find the answer if we look at the Security Act – and I quote: ‘Safety grading is used confidentially if it could harm the security of Norway or its allies, the relationship with foreign powers or other vital national security interests if the information becomes known to unauthorised persons.’; I have to take care of what I say in an open meeting, of course, but everyone who was at the closed hearing, or who has read the minutes from the closed hearing, has seen that our leading professionals in this area believe that the information we are talking about here is of such a nature that it is protected by the Security Act. Then we who don't have the right thing to do, can see as much as we want, and I'm recording that some people do, but it's a fact that our top professionals are ready in their speech. The government has followed the Security Act, as the Storting itself has adopted, and I find it regrettable to see some political parties making a political game out of something as serious as this. The reason why the Storting held a secret meeting is not this summary, which was discussed, but that the case-rapporteur in the setting wrote in things from the main document, which was confidential. So to the Riksrevision report: First of all, until found that the defense and the police have not established a permanent basic security for all of their protective objects. It is not satisfactory, for the facility hedge regulation entered into force on 1 January 2011, and gave the government a deadline of 1 January 2014 to implement this hedge. One had a 36-month period to fix this, and we're only going to see that the Red-Green Government, with the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV, didn't do much to achieve this goal over its 33-month period with the power of this period. Very little happened. So when the committee asks why not work on object protection is given the necessary priority, there is a question that needs to be addressed to other than the current government. It's hard to win the baton if only the anchorman runs fast enough. But also before 1 January 2011, it was such that important objects were to be secured. In fact, it was only when you got your own regulation and its details, but in the security law itself, which has been in force for years before this, that it also says that important objects should be identified and secured. Despite the fact that this law has been in force for several years before 2011, there has been insufficient securing of the objects. This can be illustrated by the fact that since the government change, the defense has spent a billion dollars. kr to secure objects, and we're still not completely in the goal. We would hardly have been in such a situation if the chapters of the Security Act on the securing of objects had been followed before that. It says a little about the efforts and the effectiveness of this field before 2013. With regard to the current situation, there are many objects that have received permanent basic protection. For those objects that do not have fully satisfactory permanent basic security, temporary compensatory measures have been implemented, which, based on the police director and the head of defence have said to the Committee in open consultation, adequately compensate – the objects are well secured. Many of the objects that lack satisfactory permanent basic protection shall either be moved after a short period of time – such as part of the police's objects, to be moved into the new emergency centre – or we shall talk about objects contained in military camps with 24-hour security. The work on this matter has demonstrated that not all of the shielding objects have been permanently secured, but much has been done, and where no target has been reached, compensatory measures have been put in place. So to the cooperation between the police and the defense. There we just have to note that both the police and the defense say that the cooperation is very good, they do not recognize themselves in the Riksrevision's findings. There are also surveys among police officers to support this, and there is now a joint exercise of at least one feature per district per year, in stark contrast to what it was like before 2013, when there were years when large parts of or the whole of the Home Security did not practice at all. How the police or the defense would respond together in practice to a serious incident in 2013 or 2014, fortunately we do not know, but we can well assume that they are now practicing together, unlike in the past, increasing the likelihood that they would act quickly and effectively today. The National Audit Office further writes that they believe it is probable that ‘neither the police nor the Defense, together or separately, will be able to exercise adequate protection and protection of essential objects in the event of a threat’. The last one is quoted from their conclusion. Here we have to note that the Riksrevision's opinion is clearly refuted by both the police and the defence. Neither can we say with certainty what would have happened if an event had occurred in 2013 or 2014, fortunately, but at least we are going to deal with another report in the Chamber later today that looks at the preparedness work in recent years, and there are a number of positive findings. I want to add that even though tragically many people were killed in Norway after the bomb was dropped on July 22, the police and the defense were quick to secure buildings and objects after the explosion. By that I don't mean to say that preparedness in general worked that day – absolutely not – but what we're talking about here is that the physical object protection, if there were a threat situation, worked. I, for my part, find it strange if what worked in 2011, after all that work and all the resources that have been spent on it since then, are not going to work now. For example, all the concrete follow-up points of the Gjørv Commission and the Special Committee have been or are being implemented. Let me use the last thing I have left of time, to talk a little bit about the conclusions of the matter. I've said it before, and I'm forced to repeat it: during this great period, parts of the opposition, with the Workers' Party at its head, have systematically lowered the threshold to use sharp parliamentary weapons. In this case, they conclude that the government has acted very critically, which has been hacked before mistrust. I am not saying that there are no points in this matter that deserve critical comments, because it does, but if the Storing is to have authority, and if powerful parliamentary expressions in the future are to have the power that I think they should have, they must be used correctly – and here they are used incorrectly. It must necessarily be the greatest failure of the government to deal with the harshest parliamentary criticism. One thing about the "moon landing" at Mongstad, where 10 billion. kr was gone, was critical. The government's job of securing preparedness prior to July 22 was considered critical. So now a minority in this room, with the Labour Party at the head, finds that this matter is highly critical. It's a conclusion I'm just going to have to hang there – for an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1687	I would first like to thank the rapporteur and the other committee members for their thorough work on this matter, which is of great importance, since it is a matter of examining whether we have a satisfactory preparedness and preparedness culture in our country, especially in the light of the follow-up to the conclusions of the Gjørv report following the tragic incident on 22 July 2011. The purpose of the National Audit Office's report has been to investigate whether the Defence and Police Act complies with instructions on the protection and protection of objects through the use of security forces from the Defence and Police in peace, crisis and war, so that important objects maintain their operations and functionality in critical situations. Furthermore, it has been examined whether the Defence and Police Directorate comply with the requirements of the Security Act and the Object Security Regulation on the fundamental protection of their own protective features. With regard to the Riksrevision's findings, I'm not going to repeat these here. But the Progress Party finds the findings of the report to the Riksrevision serious. In addition to the information provided in the National Audit Office's report, the Committee, through correspondence and two audit hearings, has tried to form an image of the extent to which the State Councils have followed up the findings of the Riksaudition in its report. Both the Minister of Justice and Security and the Minister of Defence have stated that they take a serious view of the Riksrevision's findings. The Minister of Defence said in his reply to the Riksrevision that its report helps to fill the picture and the challenges that exist in this area, and the report will thus be a central and useful basis for further improvement. The Progress Party is pleased that the Minister of Defence will base the recommendations of the National Audit Office on further improvement. According to the Minister of Defence, a number of measures have been taken in recent years. New legislation has been introduced, for example: the aid file has been amended several times and at the latest last week. In 2015, the defense's assistance to the police was legalised. A task has been given. Objects have been designated. The key point list is now being updated annually. Security work planning has been carried out. The police and the defense have been practicing common exercises for many years, such as Tyr, Oslofjord, Capital and the Haugaland. Both the Minister of Justice and Defence and the Minister of Defence have announced in their replies to the National Audit Office's report that work on object security will take some time and that, for the defence, it will take some time to increase the operational capacity of the Home Protection Agency. Both the Minister of Justice and Defence and the Minister of Defence have given clear assignments to the Directorate of Police and Defence respectively with deadlines for further work on object security. In terms of object protection work, the Workers' Party tries to present it as if this government has not done anything from 2013 to 2015, before the work on the Riksrevision report was started. The Progress Party will show that 22 July-trading revealed that overall defence plans to identify key objects were obsolete and that the list of key objects was not up-to-date since 2006. Those who were previously responsible for updating the list of key objects had been rationalized away. It took time therefore to rebuild this again. It's spent a total of 1.1 billion. SEK for basic protection in the Defence for the period 2012-2016 and an additional SEK 450 million. kr is set aside in the long-term plan. Also in the police, significant investments have been made in object protection, such as: ICT infrastructure supporting critical command and control functions has been moved to safer locations. These are operations that necessarily take time. Through the Gjørv report after the 22nd of July, a number of measures were recommended that should be implemented. In December 2016, Meld was notified. St. 10 for 2015–2016 Risk in a safe society presented. An overview of the status of the measures recommended following the terrorist acts is provided in Annex 2 to the notification. The list contains a total of 116 different measures. 102 of these have been accepted as carried out, while 14 measures have the status of being at work. A number of the latter category have to be considered today. This is a very good evidence that both the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence have worked continuously to complete all the tasks pointed out by the Gjørv Commission report. There will be direct errors when the Workers' Party accuses this government of not having taken up the work on object protection until after the Riksrevisen focused on this. Even more particularly, when you look at the story ahead of July 22nd, According to the Minister of Defence, all the key objects of the Defence now have some kind of basic security. The state is better than in 2015, and risk assessments have been carried out for all the objects, which was missing in 2015. The petroleum sector was addressed in the open hearing, without being a subject of the Riksrevision report. No conclusions were drawn on this in the open hearing, but there are plans for this sector. The progress of the project indicates that the work on object protection is dynamic, as objects can change character depending on how the threat image changes, and therefore the work remains challenging. Although there should be no concrete plans for the individual object, HV will be able to implement object protection on the basis of the training and practice carried out by the soldiers. If HV were to receive a mandate to secure all key points and objects with pre-planned police assistance at the same time, the new home security structure will be sufficient, but there will be no capacity for other missions. This was confirmed by the HV Chief during the hearing. However, such a scenario is not possible in today's situation. The Progress Party has noted that the budget of the HV has been significantly strengthened in recent years in order to acquire new material and increase training activity. Therefore, the Progress Party does not share the Riksrevision’s view that the Defence and Police Department, either individually or collectively, will be able to protect important objects when the threat situation so warrants, as both the Defence Chief and the HV Chief of Defense stated during both hearings. The Progress Party has noticed that both the head of defence and the police director feel that cooperation between the police and the defence is very good, and that in recent years they have focused on strengthening cooperation in the field of preparedness, especially in the area of counter-terrorism preparedness. The problem today is not that the police and the defence can't cooperate – that is, they can call reverential thinking – but that they can spend time together for community training. This is more of a practical issue that the parties have to resolve jointly. I have a specific example from my own area, and I will quote from the Haugesunds Avis of June 9, 2017: ‘The police had a drill with the Homeland Protection Department in Haugaland. On Thursday, the police and the HV-08 force carried out a large-scale joint exercise. The practice ended up at Tietsnes Fort in Sveio, but armed and uniformed personnel were also several other places on the Haugalandet, including in the center core of Haugesund. The last time the police in Haugaland had practice with the Defense was in 2013. – It makes sense that we carry out a common exercise. There are features in our impact field that make it possible, in a serious situation, to use the aid directive and thus cooperate with the Defence. Then we need to have practised this and know each other, says the head of operational development in Haugaland and Sunnhordland, Odd Helge Åkset to Radio 102." This is an example of the fact that the police and the defense have taken seriously the need for aggravation of objects. The Committee, as it emerges from the open consultation, has been concerned with transparency on the various aspects of preparedness issues and has been asked to draw up an up-to-date version of the classified report by the National Audit Board. The Ministry of Defence has opposed the downgrading of this report, with reference to the Security Act. A majority of the committee asked the presidency to bring forward a case for the Stortinget where the Stortinget itself would put the Security Act aside in this case and degrade the report. However, the size joined the presidency's position, which was opposed to a downgrading. The progress party will show that Stortinget has been able to participate in all classified information in this case. In addition, all main findings, main conclusions, criticisms and recommendations have been publicly known. In such a situation, it would be extremely unwise to downgrade information that should be kept hidden. The Progress Party refers to the Ministry of Defence managing the Security Act and the owner of the information responsible for the level of grading the document. Respect for the Security Act must be equal, regardless of whether a government leaves a majority or a minority in the Storting. The Progress Party believes that it needs a great deal in order for the Storting to review the government’s graduation decisions. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Progress Party is pleased that the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence have taken the Riksrevision report seriously and will follow up the recommendations of the National Audit Office in further work. I also refer you to the rapporteur's review. The Contracting Party shall align itself with the Committee's proposal for a decision on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1742	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for the work on this major and important matter. Initially, I would like to underline three short but very central points for the Christian People's Party. Firstly, object protection is not a detail in the work of security and preparedness. Object protection is not a small part of the work, on the contrary. It's a very central part. Securing features and critical infrastructure is a very important and necessary part of our common security. Those who say something else say it either to divert attention away from their own neglect, or they have not got the debate and the decisions that were taken after 22 July 2011. Secondly, since 22 July 2011, society and the Stortinget have had clear expectations and demands. Securing objects would be better, and cooperation between police and defense would be better. This has not been the case, the work has gone too slowly. Thirdly, when the government took power, there were clear promises of enhanced efforts on security and preparedness. Yes, much has been done on other parts of the emergency work, especially after 2015. But even the Prime Minister now admits that work on object protection has not gone fast enough. There hasn't been enough pressure. Work on object security and better police and defence cooperation has not been a high priority. The documentation is clear: serious deficiencies have been revealed. It's very critical. For the Christian People's Party, these three points are at the heart of the debate. This is what is at the heart of the matter. In such an important matter, and in such key areas of security and preparedness, the government has failed – and despite its own promises and the demands of the Storting. It is not only very critical, it is also very disappointing. The audit covers the financial year 2015. There is reason to believe, for example. based on what has emerged during the hearing and communicated by the Councils, that work has speeded up beyond 2015. A lot has happened in the last two years. It is good, but it is not good that it had to be strongly criticised until it was taken care of. In the open report, the National Audit Office pointed to significant weaknesses in the object security of the Directorate of Police and Defence. The National Audit Office notes that the Council of State does not provide a proper explanation of the reasons why the work on object protection and basic protection has not been given the necessary priority. Major police conversion processes have been used as an explanation background. The size gave the work on object protection a high priority, and then, in the Christian People's Party's opinion, it is very serious that the improvement work is not ensured progress regardless of conversion processes. We have now had hearings, spent a long time and gone through a lot of documents. The National Auditorate has done a thorough job, and so has the Committee. The matter is very serious, and the criticism is sharp. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a solid basis for this criticism, unfortunately. Protective objects are property that must be protected for the security of the Reich and Allies or other vital national security interests. It's both about permanent basic security of buildings, installations and other things that could be terrorized, and it's about having good plans for extra effort when something happens and crisis occurs. The Christian People's Party looks very seriously at the matter. The Court of Auditors' judgment is harsh. Important features are not guaranteed and failure can pose a risk to life and health. Any government must take such a judgment from the Riksrevision in the highest seriousness – yes, in the highest seriousness! After the attacks on 22 July, we learned how important it is to coordinate resources better, how important it is to achieve good police and defence cooperation, and how important it is that societally critical objects are well secured. Prime Minister Erna Solberg established a national security and security element at the Prime Minister's office, and the government platform was very clear: security and preparedness should be given priority – Norway should become safer. Now it turns out that the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence have failed to strengthen and improve cooperation between the police and the defence, as provided for by Stortinget, as documented in the National Audit Office’s report. Important measures to ensure good cooperation and preparation have not been implemented. Thus, there is a risk that important objects will not be able to maintain their operations and functionality in critical situations. The two departments have also failed to ensure that the Directorate of Police and Defence have established permanent basic safeguards on their own protective features. The last thing is really amazing, when we think about it. It's actually almost not to believe. And further, in the opinion of the National Audit Office, there is a likelihood that neither the police nor the Defense, together or individually, will be able to exercise adequate protection of important objects when a threat situation so warrants. At the same time, the Riksrevision writes in its unupgraded report that the government does not fully explain why the work on object protection and basic protection is not given the necessary priority. So, the verdict is fucking hard. The Prime Minister thought we had come further, but only when the Riksrevision reported to Stortinget, did this become known. As politicians, it is our important responsibility to provide security and security for our citizens. Then securing critical objects in society is absolutely central. When faults and deficiencies are identified, the authorities must take responsibility. Some of the lessons after July 22 are precisely that there must never be any doubt about who is responsible. In this case, it is the government with the Prime Minister at the head who has this responsibility. Therefore it was important for the Christian People's Party to summon the Prime Minister to the open hearing in the Stortinget on 20 March. The overall responsibility of the College of Government is that the emergency situation provides maximum security within the financial framework given to it. This responsibility does not go away even if, for practical reasons, sectoral responsibility has been added to one or more expert councils. The implementation of measures that are essential to your safety and my safety requires a good interaction between big business and government. The relationship between state powers must be orderly and effective. The government must have the tools needed to do the job, while at the same time ensuring control of the population. Here comes the question of secrecy and grading documents. In the case of object protection, the Riksrevision prepared a summary which was intended for the public, but the government insisted on continuing grading. The Christian People's Party was that the Riksrevision's summary should have been published, but at the same time we have respect for the provisions of the Security Act on classified information. We believe it would be to cross a line if the Storting published classified information against the government's will. The size could override the safety code by means of a special law. Such a special law would be completely contrary to the principle of the Security Act, namely that the issuer of the information is the one to decide on grading. The Christian People's Party believes that we should not give ourselves a legal home that actually makes the Storting a case handler for individual documents that the security authorities are grading. If the Storting takes ownership of secret government documents, the result can actually be less transparency, and no more. Exercising power must have confidence that the Storting process the information correctly. Only then can the Storting exercise its important control function. At the same time, there must be equal practices regardless of whether there is minority government or majority government. Respect for the Security Act must be equal regardless of whether a government has a majority or a minority in the Storting. The size has had access to all relevant information to deal with the matter in detail. The Christian People's Party takes the Riksrevision's criticism of the deepest seriousness, but we do not put the provisions of the Security Act out of play. Until then, the work on security and preparedness is too important. And then finally. We are involved in promoting some important proposals here. It's a shame that it would be necessary to do it that way, but now we have to get a closer follow-up. We must demand and expect that society's security and security are given far higher power and priority in the future. I refer you to the rapporteur's review.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1790	The case concerns the National Audit Office's report on police and defence object security for the financial year 2015. The Storting had a closed meeting yesterday, and this case therefore creates a demanding role for everyone who is an ombudsman. After hearing the Chief of Defense and the head of the National Armed Forces' presentation of defence policy yesterday, it is quite incomprehensible that a person is experiencing the secret that we are now facing, a secret that the Riksrevision wanted not to be present, a national audit that has experience, sailed, with laws and what is practice. I refer to Mr Kolberg's briefing, which in a good way also shows the views of the Central Party, but I'm going to go through a bit based on our assessments. The key in this matter is that the Ministry of Defence must ensure that the Defence assumes its responsibility for the protection and protection of key objects, including ensuring that the Defence points out the necessary civil key objects, as well as enabling the Home Protection to secure and protect the key objects. Furthermore, the departments ensure that cooperation between the police and the defence is given the necessary priority, as well as clarifying the need for capacity so that the police and the defence can ensure and protect the objects through HV. It's the opinion of the Center Party. This is the Right Party and the Advance Party disagree. That disagreement has, among other things: major implications for the dimensioning of HV in the future, and the Centre Party is very pleased with all those who are now committed to getting a stronger, better trained and better equipped HV, with much more soldiers, thus securing objects and providing the opportunity to monitor the whole country. The National Audit Office has made the following findings in its investigations: ‘The Court of Auditors takes a very serious view that the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence have failed to strengthen and improve cooperation between the police and the defence, as required by the Stortinget and the instructions.’ And on the other hand, ‘In the opinion of the National Audit Office, there is a likelihood that neither the police nor the Defense, together or separately, will be able to exercise adequate protection of essential objects when a threat situation so warrants.’ So it's at the heart of these issues, which the government has then classified in accordance with the Security Act, and it's impossible for the Committee to verify the arguments used. I have to say that we can't verify the arguments, is an unculture, when one is faced with such important questions that require good explanations. There are open audits in the Committee on 20 and 21 March 2017 and we learned during the hearing that it was not possible to get sufficient information on the matter when the Riksrevision summary was graduated. That is why we got the process that led to a closed hearing on 29 May 2017. I would like to draw attention to the proposal for Decision II in the position presented to the Stortinget today, a very important decision, in which we ask the Riksrevisie to go through the status on 29 May 2017 – a non-random date, that is the date of the closed hearing. So we are in the situation that this case is not finished, and as I will come back to later, it is essential that the Riksrevision starts that work immediately. The background to this serious situation and the attention to preparedness is linked to the terrible terror of 22 July, where Prime Minister Stoltenberg on 28 August 2012 shared with Stortinget the following recognition: ‘The Commission demonstrates a failure in Norwegian preparedness and preparedness culture that is more extensive and deeper than I was prepared for. It is difficult to take over." Once again, I would like to draw attention to the position of the Control Committee in this regard, Innst. 210 S for 2012-2013, Chapter 3.8.1 Culture and management challenges under Chapter 3.8 Committee conclusions. These are very important clarifications, as we can see. What is important is the majority comments from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, and it says: ‘These members have noticed that, in order to best master crises, the Defence has since 1995 developed and introduced a new decentralised management philosophy; ‘ Mission-based management’, in order to ensure initiative, creativity, ownership of the tasks, sense of responsibility and thus a collective commitment. The intention is that the person with the best understanding of the situation should recognize the importance of, and be trained to act independently, but in line with the intent of the overall level.’ And on the other hand, ‘These members will stress the importance of the need for management of these departments to gain and to make use of the experience and assessments of their staff. The first line of mission must be given authority, trust and encouragement to use its competence. At the same time, the people of the first line must be trained to ensure the safe exercise of demanding tasks, equipment that is modern to perform the tasks and to ensure that the individual communicates with his or her working group so that the task can be handled as efficiently as possible. It is for all these emergency organisations that they need decentralised management to realise the intention of the overall level.» This majority comment is essential in order to strengthen practical day-to-day preparedness. It requires a pool of forces in the management of emergency response organisations in order to realise this management culture. Object protection, designated as a very central element of preparedness, by both the Special Committee and the Gjørv Commission, has not been followed up, as indicated in this setting. Why was compliance not given sufficient priority? It is a fundamental question that has been raised by many people. I just want to briefly address the neglect of such a character as the majority believes should have been captured by the coordinating body at the Prime Minister's office, whose task is primarily to ensure stronger and faster governance of social security and national preparedness. I now see that the Prime Minister has come to the Chamber, and I expect that she will elaborate on what has been done in her reign at the crucial point. The National Audit Office considers it very serious that the improvement work is not ensured independently of conversion processes in the police and defence sectors, and the findings of the National Audit Office show a lack of awareness, prioritisation and follow-up of object security from the government. The Centre Party believes this to be highly critical. When it comes to the secret team, I've gone into it. I just want to say that it's pretty interesting to learn that either that's what's weak, fixed, or it's still missing. I would say it is the opinion of the Central Party that the government's secret team is against the will of the Riksrevision, that the object protection is not in order today, and that it is contributing to the secrecy. Good preparedness provides security, and the National Audit Office has found that socially important institutions, military and civil, are not well-secured. Yes, the National Audit Office’s characteristics are ‘very serious’. This is the worst character that can be given from the Riksrevision. It is now also necessary to ensure civil installations, for example: in oil, gas, power plants and transformer installations and central ICT installations. This will require greater and stronger support from Homeland Protection. In the view of the Centre Party, the Defence must identify the necessary civil key objects and enable HV to secure and protect the key objects according to the situation. The number of objects in need of fuse can no longer be determined by what one has of crews. In the view of the Centre Party, it must be the opposite: objects of social importance, as defined, must be secured. HV must be equipped to do its part of the job. HV must be strengthened with more soldiers. Unfortunately, the government believes the opposite: HV should have fewer soldiers. This is the most important part of this object protection issue, where there is fundamental disagreement in today's magnificence. The HV, together with the police, also has an important role to play in creating security against and in terrorist attacks. This is also an important reason why the Center Party is going in to strengthen HV across the country. Finally, to the representative Skutle from the Right, who accused the majority, including the Center Party, of running a game, and thought the matter was not very critical: I distance myself from it. Only terror and crisis will show the quality of our preparedness and object security. I hope we don't experience what can happen in practice, but the Central Party will prepare the country better than the situation today, and we join in the proposals for decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1845	The main task of any State should be the security of its citizens. The security of the citizens is the main task of the politicians. It has been, it is, and it should continue to be the main task of politicians. We know it failed on July 22nd. The politicians failed, the police failed, Norway failed, and we cannot afford to fail again. Neither the Stortinget, the government, the police nor Norway can fail again. The Norwegian people deserve better, but the National Auditor's report states that neither police nor defence could provide the necessary preparedness and security individually or collectively in the event of an attack, at least until 2015. The government has said that the situation has become much better today. It remains to be seen if we get a new report on the table that can clarify this, after we have given our position. Nevertheless, the situation from 2015, and possibly what it entails for the current situation, must be characterised as totally unacceptable and something we cannot live with. First of all, I would like to join in the good remarks made by the case rapporteur, who is largely in agreement with the Left, with the exception of two points. I will come back to that when I find out where we have separated layers in the setting, and explain it a little more. I see the Prime Minister is here. In the past, she did not want to answer if the Ministry of Oil and Energy had reported objects to the NSM or not, because this should be out of the public domain and could threaten the security of the state. At the same time, on 25 October 2016, VG had already had a major case in which it could be revealed that ‘eight oil and gas landing facilities in Norway are not secured against terrorism in the same way as the platforms at sea.’ It was the department itself that had confirmed this. These eight oil and gas landing facilities could be read in the VG that was not secured, not reported. The defense research institute says that if there was an attack, the attack would be over before the police and the defense would be able to respond. There's something to think about. One thing is that they should prevent attacks, and I think we all agree that we should. But to sanctify yourself a hundred percent, so that an attack could never come in Norway, I don't think it's possible. I don't think it's possible to get there. We see that in the rest of Europe – it is not possible to get there. The task then has to be that when the attack takes place, we have to be able to stop it – and not because the attacker goes empty, cannot do more or has done what he had planned to do, but because the police, the defense or other actors come to and stop the ongoing attack. If the report of the National Audit Office and the statements of the Defence Research Institute are taken into account, it shows that the attacker in Norway will complete his attack before stopping him. It must be alarming. Worse is it if there's not one attacker, but attackers in different places, as the Defence Research Institute says. If the coordinated attack occurs, the system will collapse completely. We just have to hope that doesn't reflect today's situation. I see there are three major actors from the government apparatus here, and they might be able to clarify whether the situation is such that you won't be able to stop an ongoing attack, and that two coordinated attacks would have been completely collapsing throughout the system. After the tragic event on July 22nd, not only the Storting, but the entire Norwegian people expected the cooperation between the police and the Defense in securing and protecting essential objects, buildings and infrastructure to be improved. The report shows that this is not the case. The rug is the Gjørv Commission’s report of 13 August 2012. The recommendations and conclusions were very serious and documented failures in Norwegian preparedness and preparedness culture that were very extensive. The Commission's recommendations put the whole Storting behind. The national audit report shows that the situation is unlikely to have improved. This has to a large extent been admitted by the Prime Minister in various forums and ways, including: during the open hearing, and at the latest I think I heard it at her press conference about this today, where the Prime Minister admitted, after a question, that the situation in 2015 was not good enough. In a situation where we see increasing terrorist activity and solo terrorism around Europe, this is very serious. There is no reason to believe that what is happening in Nice, Berlin, Manchester, London and elsewhere in Europe will not be able to come to Norway. Then the job is first to make sure that it doesn't happen, but if that happens, to stop it in time. The third element has been related to Home Affairs. At the open hearing, the head of Home Affairs could tell us that Home Security cannot secure both key objects and protective objects while having resources for other tasks, due to the adopted Home Security instructions. We also know that you have not just strengthened Home Protection by the government, with the good support of the Workers' Party. After all, the Workers' Party has supported the government in this by ripping the Home Office and putting down the entire Maritime Home Office. The way in which coastal land management is to take place from the sea side is an unresolved question. The operators in the apparatus say that this is insufficient protection, and when we know that they are not even designated as protective objects, the national safety authority does not supervise these objects. We don't know what kind of security it is. One thing is solo terrorism and possibly Islamist terrorists, but then we completely exclude thinking about the other state powers that could potentially also pose a threat to Norway in the future. At the end, I have some comments about the secret team, because the secret team is something we really can't live with, and that the government has created around this summary. Let me just assume that I have not heard anyone say that the big report, the main report, will be published. No one's talking about it. We are talking about the summary that the National Auditor wrote, the summary that today's Business has already printed – as a shameful leak, hopefully not from the Storting. The national auditor has wanted this summary to be public. The National Auditor believes there is no reason why it should be kept secret. The majority of the large parties, with the exception of the government parties, agree to this. The Christian People's Party also agrees with this. They agree that there is no reason to keep this a secret. Former state councils have also said this. Last time I heard Gahr Støre say in the papers that, with his experience as Minister of Foreign Affairs, he saw no reason for this summary to be kept secret. Nevertheless, the government will keep this a secret. That way, they're squabbling the landfill. They're not just trying, they've actually messed us up, because we can't talk about this summary. We can't talk about what's in the summary, here, in this room. We have to do that behind closed doors, so the public shouldn't hear it. We're not going to be able to write anything in our notes from this summary. What is very parochial is that if you keep the summary written by the National Auditor, against what the Ministry of Defence wanted to replace the summary – because they made a proposal and said it would be okay to replace the summary of the National Auditor with it, as Per-Kristian Foss said no – you can see that it is not about the safety law at all. When you hold them up against each other, you see that there are only politically charged terms that hit the Minister of Defence hard, which have been removed. I'm not going to draw any examples. It's just using Google – on April 26, 2017, this look-up from DN is out, I'm looking at my own cell phone. The typical thing is that if there's any criticism, it's mildened down to more neutral terms. It's nothing but that. Then there is a façade you wanted to decorate, so that your own reputation was preserved. Then, in reality, the Security Act is being abused and said that it is about the security of the state, while it is really about one's own personal, political security and reputation. It referred to the evening post yesterday as shameful for the government of Solberg, and it's hard to disagree with it. In the end, we are equal to the other parties except for the government parties in the setting, except for two points. One is where they write that it is «strongly critical». In all the places where they write that it is ‘strongly critical’, Left writes that it is ‘very serious and critical’. That's a very small difference. And if the President allows: the last difference is that the other parties state that in this case this responsibility has not been satisfactorily followed up from the Prime Minister's office, while the Left says that in this case it "appears" so that this responsibility has not been satisfactorily followed up. With the exception of these two differences, we are quite similar to the Labour Party and the other majority parties in the caste.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1877	Let me first thank the case-speaker and the committee members for their work on this matter, which has been very extensive for the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and join me in the opening remarks from the case-speaker to the case-speaker. The National Audit Office's report was very thorough. They come with a serious and, in my opinion, well-founded report, and I conclude that it is highly critical that the government does not have sufficient authority to follow up the Storting's decision on object protection. Today I want to spend my time trying to draw what I see as the big picture. Yesterday, in the closed meeting, I went through some of the most important concrete criticisms from the main report held back from public opinion. Of course, I have no opportunity to do that at this meeting. Here is also a bit of the core problem, I thought, by keeping the summary secret and not made public. Because it gives explanations and reasons for the strong criticism that I think would have been easier to understand in public if one had access to the summary. It's also the way we know that it gives the main recommendations that it's hard to understand why shouldn't be public and should be discussed in a proper way. Let me remind you about the back carpet. The Special Committee of the European Parliament and the Control Committee, during the previous ageing period, gave strong impetus to the follow-up to the work of securing key objects in particular and preparedness in general. Object protection is far from everything in readiness, but it is a relatively important part of it. On top of what the Stortinge essentially made the decision of the co-conspirators, the Right Party put particularly great expectations on itself for the period 2013-2017. The current Prime Minister stressed that she personally would take stronger control of preparedness, and the Right had a proprietary preparedness selection that put the same emphasis on it. In connection with the submission, Solberg and Werp were interviewed by VG. Then the Prime Minister said: ‘The experience of the 22nd July Commission shows that this is necessary. You need a Prime Minister who is in charge of these matters." So said party leader Erna Solberg to VG on 9 March. The representative Werp followed up: ‘The Minister of State must take responsibility. This new function – that is, the new function at SMK – ‘will provide the Prime Minister with a much better overview, thus making the Prime Minister’s overall leadership role much clearer’. In the election campaign half a year later, on 17 August, Justice Commissioner Oktay Dahl followed up by saying: ‘If Solberg had been Prime Minister, I am convinced that she had been more ‘hands-on’ on security issues.’ He then pointed to the situation around July 22nd and the terrorist attack. The government also raised preparedness as particularly important when it went on in 2013, and wrote among other things. in the Government Platform: ‘The government will ensure that the country is equipped to deal with future crises. The Gjørv Commission report and the police study have revealed serious deficiencies. The government will therefore step up efforts to strengthen security and preparedness. The enforcement force must be repatriated.’» I'm saying this because that's what the carpet is for which one should be measured against. The National Audit Office's report is, in fact, a rather harsh one about the government's work on object protection until 2015, but it is a brutal sentence that stands in stark contrast to what they themselves said before the 2013 elections. Important objects were not certain, there was a lack of plans and capacity, there was far too little cooperation and training, one did not follow the deadlines from Stortinget, nor did the Storting inform the Storting that one was not on the way. In contrast, some countries reported the impending Minister of Justice of the Stortinget that everything was quite well done with the object protection, which turned out not to be voting. The Riksrevision sums it up in the following way in the unupgraded report: ‘In the opinion of the National Audit Office, there is a likelihood that neither the police nor the Defense, together or separately, will be able to exercise adequate protection of essential objects when a threat situation so warrants.’ The main concern in the Riksrevision report, their explanation, is that the work has not been given priority either in the Ministry of Defence or in the Ministry of Justice. The quote that most clearly shows it, the government has chosen to hold back from the public, so that it can't be read from here, but it's the constant commandment. I see that no one, either civil servants or councillors, has found themselves challenged, that is, the empirical facts on which the report of the National Audit Office is based. At first, in particular, there was some criticism of the valuer in language use and conclusions. Fortunately, it has subdued itself after a while. So some people said it was a snapshot. My impression is that something has also changed since then that it has been clear that it was a quite natural moment, among other things. because the regulations were to be complied with during 2014. In the open hearing, the Prime Minister explained that one reason for this situation arose was that the government did not know that it was so bad, and that one of the parties responsible, the Police Directorate, had wrongly reported green to the department. It was interpreted from the department that everything was fine. In my opinion, there is also a problematic explanation, as it was only a report on parts of the responsibility of one of several departments that were responsible, and so it is the Ministry of Defence that owns the instructions. And the defense management reported up on the situation. The National Auditor's report tells us that the object protection was poor in several departments, and it is the Prime Minister who has a special coordinating role in the work. In short, there is something the government and the Prime Minister's office should have had a better overview before the Riksrevision's report came. Neither the Prime Minister nor the relevant specialist councils had given it sufficient priority until 2015, as I read the report from the National Audit Office – i.e. before the report came. For the report, there was a major lack of work in the government, in the police and in the defense to secure objects, until 2015. At the same time, the hearings have shown – fortunately – that in a number of fields it is much better in 2017 than in 2015, giving the information we have received through the hearings. I would say that strong improvements in such a short time clearly indicate that one could have achieved a much faster improvement by 2015 than what had been done at the time. It also shows that the Riksrevision works. This report gave a proper push and helped to increase the priority of the object hedge. And I expect the government to continue to take that responsibility more seriously. But when I heard the message from the representative, Skutle, I must say that I was thought of, because he asked rhetorically, why is it not better? Well, that question needs to be addressed to people other than today’s government—understanding the previous government and their missing actions. I think I would say that if one after four years in the government does not take responsibility for itself, a person has no idea what the word responsibility means, even if the starting point was not the best. Let me briefly sum up: the report has given a great debate on the openness of findings to the Riksrevision. For SV, it has been an important lead that we should stretch far to get openness about the situation. A high standard of openness was set in connection with the handling of the Yard Commission. I thought it was very problematic and unfortunate that the summary was not published, so that we could have a neat and proper debate on it. I expect that the government that will take over will return to the standard of openness that we had before 2013. I thought the government, the Prime Minister and the government councils that it owes should be responsible for the criticism that the Riksrevision made about the work by 2015. They raised the itself to be central. They themselves bring up the role of the Prime Minister. And the work has not been prioritised either in the Ministry of Defence, in the Ministry of Justice or in a collective government in the way it should.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1933	I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough work on an attitude based on the Riksrevision's classified report, which no one has proposed to downgrade. There have been three days of consultation, one of which has been closed. There has been one day of open debate in the Chamber on the question of graduation, and there was an closed debate yesterday. It is important to stress that the Stortinget has had full access to all documents in the case from the outset, 18 October last year, and the public has also had access to both the main findings and the criticism. There has been considerable debate on the matter. We have had open hearings and open debates in the Chamber, which has helped to shed light on the matter. Let me repeat a key point from the open and closed hearing and the debate yesterday. I look seriously at the weaknesses pointed out by the National Audit Office in the field of object protection, and the main findings of the National Audit Office have been and will be very important in the further improvement work. But I would also like to stress that the continuous work on object protection gives a different status today than when the Riksaudition conducted its studies for the financial year 2015. A lot of work has been going on for a long time, even before the Riksrevision made its report, and we are still not in the finish line. I think it is necessary in that context to correct something that is in the vote by the majority. On page 11, it says: ‘One thing is that the errors have been corrected, as claimed by the Minister of Defence at the open hearing and in the Stortinget. [[...]] I have not at any time – and this is not clear from the minutes – said that all errors should be corrected. On the contrary, I have said that a lot of work remains, although a lot of work is in place. The defence is criticised in the audit for not identifying the necessary civil key objects. When the defence began updating the old list from November 2005 with civil and military key objects, it was relevant to see this in conjunction with the ongoing revitalisation of national operational planning. Therefore, the military objects were first designated. The designation of the civil objects took place at the same time as the National Audit Office's investigation. In the list from December 2016, the civil objects had increased in number. There was an expected increase, and the defense had close cooperation with civil authorities in this process. Thus, no single key item was identified between November 2005 and 2012. The 2012 instruction led to a change in relation to the old Key Point Directive by the fact that the key objects can now be only objects of crucial importance for defence and military defence in war, and thus be considered legal objectives in war. The old key objects were objects of significance both for military defence and for civil protection in total defence. Throughout this period, the government has emphasised improvement measures for Home Affairs, in particular in the field of materials and logistics. The main priority of the new long-term plan is to strengthen the operational capacity of Defence, and to a large extent for Home Affairs. I can therefore not recognise myself in, or stand behind, the representative Raja's statement that HV is a rib. On the contrary, the Heimevertet will be strengthened for 2017 alone by 191 million. kr, or 16 pst. budget increase. It is set by money for object protection material. Since 2015, we have been driving a comprehensive rearming of the Heimewertel to new and modern weapons. We're now acquiring fieldcars for over 0.5 billion. kr, and we are doing great exercises this year to maintain emergency equipment in the Home and Army. It's very important, and it continues the work we started already when we joined. Thus, the lack of adequate operational capability in all areas does not mean that the Defence and Home Protection are incapacitated for object protection. This is not a either-or-relationship. The defense has a central key object list which is now kept up to date. At the beginning of December 2016 there were object plans for approx. 96 pst. by the objects. When a new list was adopted in December, the number of objects, as I said, was increased, and in April it had 87 pst. object plane. This is a living document, so periodically there will be objects without a completed object plane, but they can still be secured. In 2017, the Heimevertet has planned to exercise on a large proportion of both civil and military objects. This natural dynamics are absolutely necessary and important in order to have the best possible protection of what is at all times the most important objects, and we will never be finished with object protection – precisely because new objects and other threat images are going to emulate the work of planning and securing. The government has generally prioritised strengthening cooperation between the police and the defence. There is now a good opportunity for better and more effective cooperation today than it did in the past. In 2017, good cooperation is reported from both the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters’ cooperation with the Police Directorate and the Home Guard Districts’ cooperation with the police districts. Object backup is a theme in meetings and cooperation forums. Fixed weekly updates via videoconferencing and exchange ofliaisons contribute to good cooperation climate and low threshold for dialogue. With regard to plans for those objects where the police are requesting pre-planned assistance from the Defense Department, now 72 pst. with plans – against 25 pst. when the Riksrevision conducted its investigation. The presentation of the Royal Resolution of 24 August 2012 on instructions for the use of securing forces clearly presupposes a realistic assessment of the resources available for different types of situations and, in particular, a rapid re-prioritisation of the forces. So it's going to be situational which objects are to be secured, depending on the type of threat, the spatial threat picture, the type of objects and the importance of the objects. When the mechanisms in the instructions are used, it is considered that, in most cases, the current Home Security Forces, together with the police forces, will be sufficient for police protection. There is also a planned exercise from the Home Office at approx. one third of the pre-designated objects in 2017. In the case of permanent basic protection, it is important to be aware that all defence shielding features have a form of permanent basic protection. About 55 pst. they are in military camps and are then normally subject to day-to-day access control and watchkeeping. The defense has more than 60 pst. of all displayable objects, and it is important to understand that this too is a dynamic object list. The state of basic protection is better today than in 2015, and risk assessments have been carried out for all displayable objects today. In 2015 it was not. We also know that part of the shielding objects are in camps that – either on the basis of the previous or this long-term plan – are to be phased out. In recent years, large sums have been spent on basic security in the Defence. For the five-year period 2012-2016, hedging measures for SEK 1.1 billion have been implemented. kr only in existing building mass. For the last two years, 2015–2016, the sum is 432 million. kr. In addition to that, the next few years are set at 450 million. kr for securing in existing buildings, plus that all new buildings have basic security as part of the design. It is also important to stress that work is in progress for approx. 930 million. kr to replace radio lines with new fibre capacity and it reduces the number of shielding objects and greatly increases the resilience. The open hearing drew attention to the oil and gas sector. I'm not going to go into details here, because I've done that in the closed forums, but I just want to stress that the police and the defense can secure facilities in this sector with security forces, even if they're not designated as protective objects. Both floors are prepared and have mapped fuses. It's important to underline. This review shows that the important findings of the Riksrevision have been addressed. Many of the findings have already been followed up. More people are at work. Some require long-term follow-up, and the work is well under way. In addition, the government has worked specifically with two aspects at the same time. One is working on new assistance instructions for defence assistance to the police. There are now simpler and shorter guidelines and not least a clearer division of responsibilities. In addition, the government has also presented a new safety law. The update of a law of almost twenty years, which is not adapted to today's threat picture, was absolutely necessary. We did it in two stages to make sure that we did the most important thing first, and I look forward to the Storting being able to process the Safety Act during the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1973	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1978	The National Audit Office writes that one of their main findings is that neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Ministry of Defence prioritised this work high enough. The majority prioritised it highly, the political Norway prioritised it, there was a great deal of attention around it, and the decisions lay there, however, this was not prioritised high enough. Then you see that after the Riksrevision has submitted a report, it becomes a priority. I have to ask: why is it in such an important case that you have to masturbate at the Department of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence before anything happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1985	I have taken into account the findings made by the Riksrevision, but I do not agree with the description that this was not a priority. As I have just explained, the government – from the time it joined – has tried to take action to improve the operational capabilities of Defence and Home Affairs. Home protection is very important for the protection of the objects. In addition, we have added large sums to the basic protection of our own protective objects. I believe that in this context it might also be interesting to look at what was said when the new instruction came into place, in 2010. Therefore, the new provisions do not in themselves entail new costs. It might tell you something about how to underestimate both the cost image and the complexity of securing protective objects. It's a work the government has prioritised and is going to give priority to the future, which I just explained. So we've been very clear that work in some areas didn't go fast enough. For example, the deadlines set in the instructions were not met by the previous government. That meant that we had a lot of work to do, and we took that into account. But it could have gone faster, and it has been clear to both the Minister of Justice and I.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e1992	One of the most important lessons after July 22 is that cooperation must be good, and that it is not just useful to adopt something, you have to follow it up. This case shows very clearly that the Storting decides something, does not necessarily mean that it does. It's worrying. The National Audit Office’s report has just raised the issue of cooperation – that it was not a priority to establish better cooperation. It's worrying. This matter was also the subject of the last Question Time this session, and then Prime Minister Erna Solberg said: "I also said that we were too bad. I think we should admit that. There was too poor follow-up of the object protection.’;» Does the Minister of Defense agree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2004	I told you that in my previous answer, there were areas where things didn't go fast enough. Then I am very pleased, both through what the head of defense and the police director have said in the hearings, and what the committee has also done in its position, to say that the work that has been done to strengthen cooperation between the police and the defence has been important, and that has produced good results. Both managers now report that cooperation is good at all levels, and that is what we depend on it, so that cooperation on object protection and in other important areas will work well. The government has also contributed in several ways to improving the aid directive, so that assistance can be requested and given more quickly. And, not least, clear responsibilities and roles are important, and we have made a significant contribution to this throughout the period. We confirm that through the instructions that went through the Council of State on Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2011	What was at the heart of my question was: Why did it suddenly go so much faster in this work after the Riksrevision had begun its work? Why wasn't this something that was the highest priority right away? When the Storting had made such strong decisions, when public Norway had so much attention around it, and when the Prime Minister almost said that this was her job no. 1 When she was going to take the Prime Minister's chair, why did it go so long before you put in the job? Why did you have to wait for the Riksrevision before this work was started? It is worrying to see that the government says that this is a priority, but that it is not a priority until it is pointed out that you are not working fast enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2016	As I have explained, I disagree with the description that this should not be a priority, but the work took longer than we had foreseen. I explained both in the closed hearing, in the open hearing and not least in the closed debate yesterday that some of the factors that have contributed to this having taken a long time are that between the autumn of 2005 and 2012, one key object was not notified. This means that when the work was to be resumed in 2012, one had to start almost from scratch. Then it was that many of the organisational members of the defense who had previously been responsible for this, no longer existed because of changes in the defense. A lot of the skills were gone, and a lot of those who could now do the job were in demanding foreign operations. At the same time, changes in the defence plan for Norway had to be made at the top because of a change in the security policy situation. Then they chose to release the key military objects first, the ones that were important for defence and defence, and then they've updated with the civilians over time. This is a great and demanding work, but there are reasons why I have explained why it had not come far enough at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2021	In the opinion of the Centre Party, the Ministry of Defence must ensure that the Defence assumes its responsibility for the protection and protection of key objects, including ensuring that the Defence points out the necessary civil key objects, as well as enabling Home Protection to secure and protect the key objects. My two questions are: Does the Minister of Defence agree with what I said now? Will this require more soldiers in HV? I ask the Council of State to answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2028	I always tend to answer questions I get, and of course I should do that now. It is quite clear that it is necessary to identify civil key objects, because in this context they will have a crucial role to play in defence. This is precisely why the defence does this — and in close cooperation with civil authorities. That is also why the number of civil key objects has increased so much from the audit in 2016 until now. On the second question, about enabling HV to secure, both the head of defence and I have answered that in all the forums we have been asked. We believe that although not all formal requirements are met, the HV and the police have the ability to secure. If it will require more HV forces? Well, based on the assessments and calculations made, both in the professional military council of the defence chief, in the status report of the state administration, which came yesterday, and in the long-term plan, it has been assumed that the number of HV forces we now have is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2037	I understand whether the Minister of Defense does not want to answer questions relating to this ‘secret’ summary, so I’m not going to ask questions about the ‘secret’ summary. But the ministry created a version, a separate summary proposal, that could replace this ‘secret’ summary. My question concerns the summary proposed by the Ministry, which has been sent to the Committee and which is also publicly available. What were the qualitative changes that had been made there, which meant that the summary that the Ministry of Defence itself wrote could be public? What are the big grips that's taken there? Why could this be public?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2042	This question I've answered Abid Q. Raja on in absolutely every context. I do not know if it is because he does not want the answer, or if there are other reasons, but I have described that it is both the whole of the document and that it may be a single word or single information that has been graduated. There are also questions about the level of precision in pointing towards potential weaknesses, and there are level descriptions of status. This is exactly the same procedure that we worked with the National Audit Office on when it came to the unupgraded summary of the report on the operational capability of the frigates. Then we had a good cooperation with the National Audit Office, which made it possible to carry out this in a good way, but we note that the National Audit Office still did not want to have the meeting we had planned to discuss just this. The important thing is to emphasise that, in the light of both the proposed Riksrevision summary and the summary we wanted to contribute to be public, it would not have been possible for me or the Minister of Justice to provide the information we could provide in closed consultation and closed debate. They are and are graduated on the basis of the entire report, which no one has proposed to downgrade.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2048	Since there is no discussion of the actual findings here, I find it a little difficult to understand and accept that the Minister of Defence clearly rejects the main conclusion of the Riksrevision, that this work was neither prioritized by the Ministry of Defence nor the Ministry of Justice before 2015. I'm trying to ask another way, and I'm asking that the Council of State answer exactly, me too, as she always does. Since she emphasises that there was a gradual process and it was prioritised before 2015, is it that the Ministry of Defence prioritises the work as high as they did before 2015, or is the work prioritised higher after 2015 than before 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2055	I have not rejected the main conclusion of the Riksrevision that the work was not priority high enough, I have just said that it was priority work, but we had not come far enough, we had not come as far as we would like, until 2015. It also bears the hallmark of the National Audit Office's report. The work was more complex than you could imagine. It was more time-consuming, and it was more costly. I believe that the numbers I've shown in this respect, for example. basic protection of displayable objects, showing in a very good way. That's why we've spent as much money as we have, also in the future to improve the physical security in addition to what else we're doing to help improve preparedness. This means that where there was a priority before, we see that in some areas we need to intensify our efforts. We have also said very clearly in the rounds we have had in Stortinget, that we base this report from the Riksrevisionen on our further improvement work. Because we're never going to get completely into the goal, and we're going to have to make changes along the way, maybe based on the fact that the threat situation changes in a way that makes much more objects have to be secured, or that they have to be secured in another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2060	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2065	The legitimacy of the State rests on its ability to take care of the security of its citizens. Citizens are to be protected against internal and external enemies, but that is precisely why, through measures and priorities, this government has shown that security has been significantly strengthened for almost four years. But it is true that in one area the situation was not good enough in 2015. It was about object protection. That's why I'm very serious about the Riksrevision's findings, the weaknesses that were pointed out, and the fact that the instructions earlier were not followed up enough by the Police Directorate and the Justice and Defence Department. At the same time, it is important to stress that this was the situation in 2015. In the closed hearing on 29 May this year and during yesterday's treatment of the classified setting, I explained the status today, both in terms of instructions and compliance with the Safety Act and the associated regulations on object safety. The work on meeting the requirements of the instructions has now come a long way, and the Directorate of Police has developed a system for the continuous follow-up and maintenance of the plan of objects in the future, as well as related exercises. In my opinion, this is very satisfactory. In addition, it is important for me to say that today we are quite different from the 22nd of July events in the area of security and preparedness. Since the government joined, there have been nearly 1,800 more annual police work. This means a significant strengthening of basic preparedness and is due to a historically high police force at the end of 2017. I would also like to stress that under this government, demands have been made for police response time for missions that require immediate call-out. The response time requirement was introduced on 1 January 2015 and measurements show that the police meet the required requirements. New instructions for the police came into force on 1 April 2016. This instruction contributes to a shorter response time and better preparedness. On 16 June this year, the Government issued new instructions for the defence assistance to the police. The instruction will ensure that decisions on assistance from the Defence to the police can be taken as quickly as possible in a crisis situation. In the revised National Budget 2017, the Government proposes to invest in three new, more-capable police helicopters and aims at delivery during 2019. New rescue helicopters to replace the current Sea King fleet shall, as is known, be delivered between 2017 and 2020. Means have been allocated for the planning and design of a National Police Emergency Response Centre. The response rate has been significantly strengthened and the PST has been significantly strengthened by nearly 300 million. kr during this period of government. In addition, through the revised national budget, we have also provided 100 million. kr more for cars and equipment for the police. The PST National Operation Centre opened in January 2017. The situation centre of the police opened on 1 January 2016 and the Joint Cyber Coordination Centre opened on 31 March this year. A national procedure on the interoperability of emergency situations in the event of ongoing life-threatening violence, PLIVO, was established with effect from February 2015. Even though a lot of things have improved, that doesn't mean we're done. This is a continuous work. However, the work done leaves little doubt that a significant effort has been made by the government to strengthen social security and preparedness. Cooperation between departments at all levels of crisis management is a high priority, both in the justice and emergency sectors. I have traveled around the police districts and talked to police officers at all levels, and the consistent answer is that the cooperation between police and defence is extensive and good in daily life. However, it is not that the characteristic of good cooperation is the absence of any disagreement, but I would like to stress that my opinion is that the cooperation between police and defence is very good in most areas. In terms of object safety by law and regulation, the police object was secured by what we refer to as temporary compensatory security measures in 2015. The national audit also points out that the objects are secured by temporary measures. As I read a lot of the criticism from the Riksrevision, it goes on that there were no concrete plans for permanent protection of objects. Some of this can be explained by the fact that it has not been possible or reasonable on the basis of a cost-benefit assessment to implement more permanent and robust measures where the objects are – or have been – located. After the audit, a significant work has been done on object safety, which I explained in detail during yesterday's treatment of the classified setting. I note that the wording of the 2016 budget proposal has become a topic in the vote. The text states that in December 2014, the Ministry informed the NSM that all the features were secured in accordance with the Code. In retrospect, the Department sees that the wording can give a somewhat misleading impression. The review of the area was therefore adjusted in the 2017 budget proposal.To be more concrete, the police have not very many objects in total. The objects classified are essentially functions that support command and control, critical ICT components and some national capacities that the police have. Following the audit, a major infrastructure project has been carried out to relocate one of the features, and several relocation processes are in progress, with concrete plans for permanent securing most of the features. Furthermore, the police are looking at the possibility of better redundancy on critical functions classified as protective objects. Examples include better and more flexible ICT solutions, changes in procedures or other administrative measures. Finally, it is important to mention that object safety is a broad field of expertise in which a number of measures in total contribute to increased protection of objects. For example, a reduction in police response time, as well as training, competence and equipment provided by the police, will help to improve the protection of cross-sectoral protective features. These measures will also support the securing of objects following the instructions in a similar way. And I can assure you that today's work on object protection has a high priority from me and my department.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2095	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2100	It is reassuring to hear the Minister of Justice say that this today has a high priority in his department. Then it's tempting to ask why it didn't have it before, and why the Riks revision says that neither he nor the Minister of Defense can even answer why it wasn't high priority before. That must be the first question. In his speech, the Minister of Justice also said that representatives from the police and the defence, when he asks, said that the police and the defense cooperate very well. It's not a very surprising situation. It is clear that when the Minister of Justice asks, they answer that they are cooperating well with the other department. But the Riks revision says something else. The debate and the theme here today is that the Riksrevision says that the Minister of Justice has not provided for strengthening and improving cooperation between police and defence, as provided for by the Stortinget and the instructions. Why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2107	I think you should add to the police officers and women you talk to when you travel around this country – at all levels – a little more credibility than that. I experience honest feedback when I meet different people at different levels in the police, and the feedback I get is usually very honest, no matter what area we talk about. This is an area I'm very concerned about that we have a good cooperation and good relationship with, and I feel that I get honest answers. That's my definite impression, and I don't see any reason to doubt this. So that's what the representative is asking questions about, that's about priority. It should be noted that the police have been through many important measures since 22 July, many demanding measures which are being followed up to the greatest extent. There is no excuse that object safety was not satisfactory in 2015, but there is at least some sort of explanation that when a large number of measures are to be implemented, it may not be all that are given equal priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2114	In its comments, the National Audit Office writes that the measures put in place after 22 July should be this irrelevant, i.e. it should be fully possible to achieve results in this important area, however. It addresses the National Audit Office in particular, so that the Minister of Justice uses much of his answer to say something that is not a topic is interesting. That is why I have to ask again: why has it not been prioritized, economic or political, to put in place the follow-up to the Storting decision in this important and priority area? Why haven't you managed to get the cooperation in place, and not least get the object protection in place, at a much faster rate than it is now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2119	As I pointed out, when implementing a great many measures, it is important to ensure that everyone is given a high priority, and it may not be as easy to achieve in practice. I repeat, that's an explanation, but it's in no way an excuse, because the situation should have changed in 2015. So it's like when we talk about permanent basic insurance, in many cases it's relatively cost-intensive investments that need to be made to ensure that it's in place. It has then been decided to apply temporary solutions that have improved the situation, by looking at things in the context, different measures that, overall, create acceptable safety around the objects, until the permanent solutions are in place. So it's a combination of several relationships that, in total, suggests that the situation is better than when you stood completely without permanent basic protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2124	But is that money on it? We know that the Ministry of Justice has increased budgets. We know that the Prime Minister has said that this was a very important, priority area. We know that security costs money. But the Storting provided for this in its decisions. The size took this into account in its treatment. So that's just as bad an excuse as saying that the police had a lot to do. Since I'm at the end of this line, and I realize that I don't get any more lines, I just have to say that I haven't got an answer as to why it's so difficult to establish a good cooperation between the police and the defense. For one thing, police and defence representatives say that they are cooperating well, but the Riks revision says that in 2015 the Minister of Justice had not put in place a structure that allowed them to cooperate enough to do so properly. Why not? What's so difficult?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2131	I feel that the representative assumes that the situation described by the National Audit Office in 2015, and its experience, is the same as today. I have made it quite clear from the pulpit that it is my clear belief that cooperation between police and defence in 2017 is good. It's no coincidence that I say that, it's my clear experience when I talk to the defense, and when I talk to people in the police. Without going into the details, as I did yesterday in connection with the closed landfill treatment – there are some details in the individual objects that I cannot account for today, but which clearly indicate that there is a time usage that needs to be put in place before the permanent base protection is in place on all objects. There are good reasons for that, but I can't go into detail now. But we've generally seen good protection around our objects.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2139	The report of the National Audit Office states: ‘In the opinion of the National Audit Office, there is a likelihood that neither the police nor the Defense, together or separately, will be able to exercise adequate protection of essential objects when a threat situation so warrants.’ The Riksrevision report therefore refers to the need for a good interaction between police and defence. It must work well if it is necessary to create security. The police have very limited personnel to provide security by, for example, terror. The police must therefore be supported by the Defense, and that means essentially the Home Security. My question is therefore: Is it appropriate to reduce the number of soldiers in the Home Office, seen from the Ministry of Justice's recognition of what is required in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2149	It's not just the defense that can fulfill the role of ensuring objects. As I explained in my post, under this government, we have built up – historically – the police's own capacities by adding nearly 1,800 new year's work to the police. There is a significant rise in response in itself to the police’s own objects with police personnel. What is conveyed from the Defence side is nothing but the fact that you are in fact able to handle the object protection situation. I don't see any reason to evaluate it any other way. But from my point of view, it is very important to stress that the police, through their significant reinforcement, have become better at caring for their own objects.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2156	I am quite surprised at the answer to the question, because I thought it was a confession that despite 1,800 posts – where not everyone is in prominent positions on the ground – it is an entire country we need to ensure. It's the military that has the necessary forces to strengthen the police. In such situations, the police have more than enough to do with their ordinary tasks. So I don't think there was any answer to the question. To the extent that it was an answer, it was an answer that meant that it was okay to reduce Home Protection – one did not need the dimension of Home Protection as it is today, because the police are strengthened. I ask for a detailed explanation of the reasoning to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2161	There's nothing but that when the police are equipped with several years' work, more police officers, more police officers out there, over the country, it gives the police more power to secure their own objects. There are many scenarios that can be developed, with estimates of different objects in different combinations, and yes, at some point it is necessary to ask for assistance from the Defence. This has been facilitated by a simplified and more effective aid guide to speed up the process. But the combination of these inputs, both from the police themselves – which I do not think we should ignore, because it is actually important – and also the defence with the capacity they can provide, I believe that the object protection provided by the object protection directive, which therefore also answers the question that the representative came up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2168	When implementing a very large number of measures, not all are given priority, the Minister of Justice answered the first question asked by the representative of Christensen. It must be closely characterised as a public perception. But said in this context, after a question of priority, it must be understood that object protection was not sufficiently prioritised. I ask the following question: Does the Minister of Justice accept the Riksrevision's conclusion that the Ministry of Justice did not give priority to this? And is there any higher priority today than it was before 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2173	I feel that in my post I was very clear that the Riksrevision findings are very serious, and that the conditions that were revealed in 2015 were not good enough. There is, of course, a recognition that things should have been in place earlier, and then I am talking in particular about object protection after the instructions. That plan should have been in place earlier, I absolutely agree with that. Now a considerable effort has been made, and the situation is quite different today. It's a little bit different when you get to the permanent basic protection, where we have a slightly longer perspective before everything can be in place. I think the representative understands that. However, it is clear that when I say from the Parliamentary Chair that the criticism from the Riksrevision is very serious, it is also a recognition that this should be a higher priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2180	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2185	The terrorist attacks of July 22 revealed great weaknesses in our preparedness for terrorism. That is also the starting point for today's debate. Making preparedness significantly better therefore became the responsibility of government and expansion and of society as a whole after 22 July. The work was urgent and was to be prioritised, it was to be done in transparency, and we stood together. A broad political majority supported the work of improvement. I believe this is the legacy of the post-July 22nd – the promise of action, the demand for transparency and the desire for coherence across party boundaries, and it forms the backbone of today's debate. I think it's an inheritance the government has managed in a bad way. Not on one of the points, not on two – it has broken with the inheritance from July 22 on all three. It puts the Prime Minister, who today has found time to be present in the Chamber when the Storting debated terrorism preparedness, in a bad light. A prime minister who started the ageing period with the promise of increased implementation in the field of preparedness and who ends the ageing period with strong criticism of the bulk of population for weak political management and governance in an important emergency area. There is no doubt that object protection was and is important. In the cold water of 22 July, there was a broad consensus to ensure close political follow-up to the improvement work expected. Both the Gjørv Commission, the Stortinget and the government of Stoltenberg clearly underlined that an important part of this improvement was to secure important societal goals against terrorism. The Government of Stoltenberg issued a new instruction on object protection, which entered into force on 24 August 2012. The special July 22 Commission asked the government to make improvements as soon as possible. It didn't happen. The National Audit Office’s report leaves no doubt that, as late as 2015, the security was poor, and ‘neither the police nor the Defense, together or individually, will be able to exercise adequate protection of key objects’. The government assured yesterday and today that the protection of terrorism targets has improved significantly since 2015. I'm tempted to add: I hope so, and it should just be missing. The criticism of this matter is not that the government has finally done that job, but that it did not do it before. For at the hearing in Stortinget, the Prime Minister confirmed that she was not familiar with the lack of follow-up until 2015. She, who promised to take control before the 2013 elections, had no control over one of the most important measures to improve preparedness. Then Stortinget had no choice but to go and ask for and why the government has not done its job. The closed debate in the cinema yesterday was a strange performance. It is difficult to imagine a clearer indication that the promise we made together after July 22 about more openness, more democracy, from the Right and the Progress Party was not so serious yet. Let me again stress that I have a great deal of understanding of the considerations that the Security Act obliges the government to do between the need for transparency and the need to protect information. And I haven't noticed one post that has asked for the publication of information that is obviously to be kept out of the public. But the question in this case is the Riksrevision's proposal for an open summary, and it is still impossible for me to understand that it should be kept secret. When the Gjørv Commission was open in all its details – close to Norway’s ability to safeguard its own security – this summary should be open. The representative of Skutle pushed E-services representatives back in front of him and said they asked that it should not be public. There are no believers to what we have heard through the hearings. The arrow points to the government. Then it must be, as National Auditor Per-Kristian Foss has said, that the government's secretiveness is due to a desire to cover up one's own neglect. The evening post calls it a shame. These are very harsh words that unfortunately can be defended in this matter. The secrecy has made it impossible for the majority of people to find together with the government in this matter. In shock and grief and then in political efforts to improve the preparedness for terrorism, the parties at Stortinget found themselves together after July 22. However, in most contexts in most parties, it has wanted to work together, to work together, to be stronger here in the United Kingdom than the interest of conflict and competition in preparedness policy. It has served us well, it has given us legitimacy, but also dignity. In the case of object protection, the government has not made it possible for the Storting to follow this case. I'm sorry. The Labour Party does not want it this way, it is the government and the seventh and last Prime Minister who is responsible for the fact that this process of enlargement is now over and that the majority of the population must make a strong deal with the weakness of the government in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2206	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2211	The previous post by the representative Gahr Støre gives a lot of work to do, to put it that way, because it was actually a clipping of themes that are individually quite interesting, but put together they do not shed light on the debate. I also have to say, with all due respect for Gahr Støre who has a lot to do, that I believe that the members of the Control Committee, who have been through three hearings and who have shaped a position and have actually also been in dialogue with executives, both the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice, but also had the opportunity to conduct interesting discussions with both police and defence management, have the ability to nuance the image far more than the representative Gahr Støre was clearly able or wanted to make in his speech. I can recall that this matter does not concern the follow-up of the 22nd July Commission, nor the notification of major terrorist preparedness, nor the decision of the Joint Committee dealing with the Gjørv Commission. There is a situation where the status of just following up on 22 July came with 31 recommendations. 21 is completed, 4 is of the kind that they always have to follow up, you never finish it, and then there's 6 that's under concrete implementation. In the case of Innst. 207 S for 2011-2012, which was this Joint Committee, is 14 decisions, 11 are implemented, 2 are under continuous follow-up. And in the case of the notification of terrorist preparedness, there were 71 concrete actions, 46 implemented, 16 are of the kind that they need to be continuously followed up, and the rest are being completed. When you pull out the legacy from July 22, you can't turn on notes, you can't imagine that that's the total readiness we're talking about. We're talking about a concrete revision of object protection. Then I don't want to talk about the inheritance after July 22nd, I want to talk about the inheritance after October 22nd, 2010, where the government of which Gahr Støre was a prominent member, said the following about object protection: the Security Act already has a provision requiring the establishment of security measures. And then it comes: the law of amendment where the regulation is based on the operationalisation of these obligations, and does not introduce new obligations. Therefore, the new provisions do not entail new costs in themselves. It is also assumed not to involve significant administrative costs. That may be the answer to why no money was granted until during this government that has gone over five years after the neglect and granted a further 1.1 billion. DKK over five years. I will come back in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2222	The President must ask for the speaking time to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2228	This matter concerns the condition in 2015. The revision is retrospective. The National Audit Office and the Control and Constitutional Committee have done a good job of describing what was very important. The matter is not about the present. I note that, with a few exceptions, the case is referred to by the rapporteur as if the findings were the current situation. First of all, it's wrong. Secondly, if the rapporteur's emphasis on the matter is conscious, it is an expression of a very regrettable political game in the matter. A lot has happened in the last two years. The next item on today's case list shows this. In the past, the Ministry of Justice’s work on social security and preparedness was strongly critical of the National Audit Office. The next case shows the great progress. Both establishment and activity management have improved, it is noted, inter alia, that: There. The majority recently addressed the social security message of the government. This shows that the government has started work on all 116 measures taken by the Special Committee of the Storting, by the Gjørv Commission and from the notification of terrorist preparedness. We can see that the government has worked on social security and preparedness in a broad field and has given a strong boost to the field. At the same time, we must always remember that we can never establish a risk-free society. So back to the past. Three ministries broke the obligation to report displayable objects by the end of 2012. ‘This is not acceptable Thus, important terrorist measures may be delayed’, stated the National Safety Authority. [[...]] I repeat: ‘In this way, important terrorist measures can be delayed’. ‘State councils are violating the Security Act’, wrote Aftenposten on 21 March 2013. The three departments were led by Minister of Oil and Energy Ola Borten Moe, Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Trond Giske and Minister of Health and Care Jonas Gahr Støre, whom we recently heard describe the importance of a directive he himself broke as a Council of State. My question to the case rapporteur is therefore as follows: What did the representative Kolberg do with this knowledge I just referred to, to which he had to know would involve delays in the government's object protection work, because in addition to being the Vice-Chair of the Control and Constitutional Committee at the time, Kolberg was also a member of the Special Committee of the Storting, which had extensive descriptions of the importance of object protection. The representative was therefore in a specifically informed and central role to follow up these serious violations in his own government. I'm meeting the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2241	The Minister of Defense responded to my reply to enable HV to secure and protect the key objects, and whether it would require more soldiers in the HV, and the answer to the Council of State was no. The Councils of State showed, inter alia: to the land-use investigation. However, the size of HV in the land authority investigation was a given size, given in the mandate of the ministry. The size was given to 38 000 soldiers, as we have understood the mandate. In this situation, therefore, the Council of State — still with reference to the long-term plan of defence and the land-use study — corresponds to a continued reduction. Thus, the government still believes that there is no need to change its position, both after yesterday’s and today’s proceedings and debate in the closed and open big meeting. The stop in the reduction in the number of soldiers in HV, which we have understood has been put into action, must therefore be understood as a temporary stop, which will be lifted after the election. That is why it is very important to have a debate on the role and responsibilities of Home Affairs in the future – the role and responsibilities of Home Affairs in assisting, monitoring, ensuring safe conditions throughout the country to ensure that we are better prepared for society. It is very important to get rid of naivety, and therefore the Center Party is moving in to strengthen preparedness with a much more extensive object protection of civil, societally important objects. It is absolutely essential that we create security in society by having the necessary resources – not least people – to secure objects throughout the country. There are a number of societally critical objects across the country that need much better protection, much more training and much more preparation to fulfill their mission if the situation arises.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2250	It's approaching, maybe, the end, but we'll see how much we're reaching over these three minutes. And then we'd better get back – me too. The first thing I want to say is that in the position of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, which we have been working on since October last year – since October last – and the whole committee has been involved in this, it is not as suggested by any of the representatives, and especially now by the representative, Mr Werp, that it is not a recognition of and a confirmation of the fact that it has done significant things after the Riksrevision report was in place. It's a safeguard. If the representative Werp had heard after what I said, something he might partly have done at least, I said just this in my post. But that's not what this case is about. I would also like to draw the attention of Mr Werp and others to the fact that his Prime Minister and the two relevant state councils at the hearings and here in the Chamber have confirmed the Riksrevision's findings. The Prime Minister has said twice – once at the hearing and once here in the Chamber – that they were too bad until 2015. So it's not necessary to make an attempt to blame me and the previous government and the responsibility for this. I don't think that's politically honest, to put it correctly. What's the political situation, or should we call it the closest psychological situation in this case, is that there's a time gap at the events in 2011 for all of us. That's why the instructions came, so that one should put a clear political trace on how this should be followed up. And then we get the report that says that's not the case. It is then, of course, the responsibility of the Control and Constitutional Committee and the responsibility of the Stortingen to follow it up. Every attempt and suggestion to blame the previous government and the Workers' Party for this, I will take a strong distance from it, and I think it is an inadequacy in this political debate to do so. Because it must be as it was said before, also by reference to what the representative Skutle said early in the debate here: Now this government has been sitting for four years and went to the elections on precisely this that the steering power in this area should be very important and central, and that was what we were all pleased about in and separately, and then we have to expect that it could be followed up without trying to transfer responsibility to others. I'll come back to other issues in the debate later.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2265	In my brief statement I also forgot to give recognition to the case rapporteur, who has done considerable work with the rest of the committee. But it must also be said in this context that he has taken a great deal of interest in the matter. I must also remind you that we do not disagree with everything. It's not such a gap through the opposition on one side and government-friendly parties on the other. It is an overall committee which notes that the findings of 2015 were a reality at that time. But we also note in some of the opinions agreed by the Committee that much has changed for the better. So the water is kind of separated again by someone suggesting that it's first the current Council of State's interest in these things that's been kind of helped by the Riksrevision. That can't be right, because you wouldn't have achieved these results if you had waited until the Riksrevision's report on this became known in 2016, so there has also been an ongoing work here. I also sometimes have to deal with the fact that we who sit at the different positions here in the hall and in the government tend to talk over the heads of the excellent floors that very well read decisions from the Storting and do a everyday work of launching the big business and government has asked them to do. So it's true, and it's also been recognised by the Defense itself, that in some areas it's taken longer than expected to meet the formal requirements of regulations and instructions. In spite of this, it is said, even though these formalities, the plank, are not formally fulfilled, that the defense has always had the ability to carry out securing operations with securing forces, where protective objects have had a basic permanent basic protection. Let's not forget it in this, because otherwise we would agree to the great work done in our emergency teams. The previous opinion of the National Audit Office that the defence is ‘inability to exercise adequate protection and protection of essential objects in the event of a threat’, the Committee considers that, even indirectly the parties of the opposition, are no longer adequate for the situation. Otherwise, we would hardly have had a discussion about what was the motive that today's situation has become so much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2280	There's so many things you could get out here, but in this context, I'm going to be careful with two. Several have pointed out that the Riksrevision and the Control Committee do not see that neither the Minister of Justice and Preparedness nor I have given some so-called good explanations as to why this was so. We have both given our explanations on this, both in closed and open hearings and in response to the Committee. But the situation is that the Riksrevision didn't ask us to explain this. The National Audit Service asked us only to explain how we would follow up the findings and recommendations, and to give notice if there was something we disagreed with. And that's what we both prioritised to do. So a few words about Homeland since there's been a recurring theme here. I think it's interesting, all the time we're now in a phase in which the operational capability is being sought strengthened throughout the Defense, also in the Homeland Protection. The first thing this government did, in the supplementary budget of the 2014 budget, was to strengthen Home Affairs so that the effort forces could train more. Already in 2014, we reached the exercise goal for the area structure, which was to be achieved in 2016. We make big investments in field cars, new weapons, more practice and training and have an operating budget that is increasing by 16 pst. for 2017. And it comes after many years of insufficient funding. When the Central Party put in government, HV's budgets were cut down by a total of 300 million. kr. It was not a financing of the structure that had been adopted. And I think it's interesting to notice that in 2009 no part of the territory was rehearsed in the Home Security – none. There is something that has also been affected in the hearing. I believe that the things we have done, including: by strengthening the budget, both in 2015, in 2016 and now, in 2017, and to the extent in 2014, by facilitating preparedness exercises, both in the Home and between the Home and Army, by strengthening HV in Troms and Finnmark because we believe that they have important tasks – all of this – to strengthen Home and Home protection, but it also contributes to strengthening society’s overall preparedness. That's what we're concerned about, and that's why we've done these priorities. The size of the Home Protection System has been approximately stable. The real level of filling has been about stable for very many years, about the level it is now – despite the fact that the number of objects has gone up and down. But the ability to secure them with the police is still present. So I think it's important, in the end, to distinguish between two things: it's not primarily Home Security to secure civil objects. That is what the police are going to do, and there is a basic insurance measure to do. The defense assists the police where the police ask for it, and we are responsible for the key objects and securing them. That's why I don't think it's right to say that you have to secure the civil social objects with more people from HV. In that case, it is because the police are asking for assistance, or because the defense has to secure key objects.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2295	First of all, a comment on Mr Kolberg's last post. And I would like to remind you that I started my previous post with a recognition of both the work of the National Audit Office and the work of the Committee; I fully agree with what my party colleagues and government representatives have said on this matter. But one of my points was that the representative Kolberg in his post equated what is in the report, which is about 2015, with the current situation. I heard very carefully what the representative Kolberg said in his ten minutes post. It was mainly – not the whole article, but mainly – based on a modern reflection. So to the representative’s concept of ‘reality’ – it was. I find that the representative does not answer my question about what the representative did with the knowledge that existed already in 2013, and how his own government helped to delay the object protection by not delivering three departments, including his current party leader, within the deadline. The evening post said those departments were breaking the Security Act. I don't get an answer to what the representative did at the time to follow up that question, as in the same context, and from the same topic today, is just as important, and where the representative uses very big words to characterize others, what they do and don't do. With the absence of a response, I find, until the opposite is stated or proved, that the representative did nothing with what he thinks today is very important. We will be told if he has anything to add to the matter. Finally, a slightly different theme that has also been prominent in the debate. This concerns the issue of transparency. After eight years in the Justice Committee, I have had a deep respect for the processes around this with legislation and us as a legislative assembly and legislative college here in Stortinget. I note that in the question of what is to be open and not available, it is very clear that the government does not comply with the Security Act, but on the other hand, in terms of transparency, it is expected that the government will break the same law. I don't get it. On the other hand, this is a matter of security, of strengthening the security of the nation. But it is used as an argument that the case should be open to consultation, that intelligence should be provided of great security policy value to those who are not our friends. There are two paradoxes that we have not received from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2304	First, a comment to the representative Andre B. Werep about breaking the Security Act: it's a discretionary assessment of how to do it. That's what this is all about, and where the opposition disagrees with the position. I want to start by saying that in October this year there will be a solemn session here in the hall, where it is full – the new representatives are sitting here. It is a solemn moment when the king bows to the Great, when the king's counsel bows to the Great, and when the government bows to the Great. A good part of them are still sitting in the diplomatic lodge. It is a very symbolic act, which shows the core of our democracy, that all power is in this room, and that those who bow serve the representatives, that is. The people. This also means that the decisions taken here must be followed up. It's very important. They have to be implemented, and when it doesn't happen – and it can happen to all governments, we all know that reality can get some each – you have to figure out why. What it's all about is that Storting must get information. Why doesn't that happen? Isn't that enough money? Is that not practicable? Isn't that good enough competence? What is the reason why this is not being implemented? I notice for myself, as a big-time representative for 12 years, that what makes me quite excited is when that information does not reach us and you have to read in the National Audit Office's reports or in the media about why things have not been done – because there is no need for money, or because there is no money. Why has the Stortinget not been notified? We need to be informed about this, so that in case we can give more money – which is relevant in this case, because it is one of the explanations why the object protection is not in the goal. I believe this is a very important task for the government. That's also why we have the Riks revision, and that's why we have our own committee here at Stortinget to follow up when that doesn't happen. The context of the matter, and I think that is also very important, is 22 July. It's before and after. That's why there's a temperature and a nerve in the debate that makes not least the Workers' Party representatives very involved. For this was a profoundly tragic event, which hit us in particular very hard. This means that the debate must also be seen in that context, which means that I think examples from before 22 July are far less relevant than those from after 22 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2319	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2324	Solid readiness is interaction. There is also an interaction between police and defence, and the police may need assistance, as after the 22nd of July terror. Then the military is good to have. The government insists that they will strengthen Homeland — why have fewer soldiers? Why not the logical thing, which is to have more soldiers? There must be something unspoken behind it. The maritime role of home security is at stake. The draft land-use study, presented yesterday, talks about joint management of army and home security, which has quite different roles to play in the future. It's an important debate – what do we want with HV? The centre party is committed to strengthening everyday preparedness, and the Home Office is part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2331	First of all, one thing that I will not contradict: the representative Skutle referred early in the debate to the closed meeting yesterday. I would like to comment on the content of what he said. He gave only indications of what was said, but he relied on the security side for professionals – without, of course, being able to identify it. At least it is moving in border countries as regards the relationship between the closed meeting and the open meeting. I just want to say in the same way – and I assume that the President does not react this time either – that there is no reason to say or to invoke that the professionals are the ones who can say with a broad pen that secrecy is necessary. We have never been documented. That's the comment on what Skutle said. I want that to be said. So I want to say that what's stuck here is that there's a majority in the main hall that confirms the Riksrevision's findings, which says the Riksrevision's report is correct. I repeat what I have said twice, that the government's representatives, with the Prime Minister at the head, have also confirmed that this is true. This means that the government has not satisfactorily followed up the Storting's decision on object protection and the follow-up of object protection, which they also voted for. That's what the report says. That is what is essential to be said, and I commend the Christian People's Party and the Left to be very clear on this, although there is a shade in the Left's understanding of the term'strong criticism'. But anyway: the analysis and conclusions are there. That's good, and it's necessary. Then we also recognize what happened after, and that's also good. But then I notice, and that's also a point, that it starts through this debate to become a pretty clear distance between the understanding of the Minister of Justice and that of the Minister of Defence. The Minister of Justice is Genuine that this was right. The Minister of Defence needs to use the voice of Stortinge to talk gradually away from it. This means that she may not recognise the Riksrevision's findings, as intended, and perhaps not the conclusions of the Gjørv Commission on the need for the necessary follow-up of object protection as an essential part of the hedge. It may be unnecessary for me, at the end, to take this up, because the facts of the matter are now placed, but nevertheless: I hear what the Minister of Defense says. She is with a responsibility today, and the Storting must have full confidence that she will follow up what the Storting will now adopt.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2342	I have no desire to extend the debate, but what has become a classic through the rounds we've had, with hearings and debates, is that the committee's leader attributes both to me and to other opinions we don't have, or to things I've never said. I have not at any time, in this debate or in the other rounds we have had, expressed anything other than that I take seriously the findings of the Riksaudition, base them on them as important for the further improvement work, and I have also explained in detail in various contexts what improvement measures have been taken, why it was not implemented enough at an early enough time. I find it unfair that at the end of the debate, the committee leader is trying to assume that I or others should not have taken this seriously. There is nothing that has arisen in this debate, nothing that has arisen in the closed debate or in the open or closed hearings, which would mean that this responsibility is not taken or that this criticism is not taken seriously. Initially, the committee's chairman was aware of what he thought was a remarkable situation, where he believed to know that the Right Party and the Advance Party agreed with the Defence Chief, but not with their own State Council. That's not right either. The Chief of Defense stated during the hearings that he was behind the Riksrevision's findings and main conclusions, but he asked questions by one conclusion, namely the one that several people have been involved in here today, that neither the police nor the defense, together or individually, would be able to secure objects. I have stated exactly the same thing, that I fully support the findings of the Riksaudition, but at the same time, as the committee chairman himself quoted in his opening statement, I have been concerned with stressing that we still have the ability to secure. That is why I do not believe that it is a basis for the Committee's chairman to consider that I or others should not take responsibility or not see it seriously – on the contrary. In the end, I will be allowed to answer again questions from Lundtegen about Home Protection and the size. The current defence adviser and the Central Party member, former head of defence Harald Sunde, in his time proposed a strongly reduced protection structure, with 27 000 soldiers in the area structure and 3 000 in the forces of intervention. When he was asked in an interview with the Evening Post on 17 June this year why he proposed a shelter that was so reduced – he actually also proposed to drop a third of the Army – the answer was: ‘The overriding, governing assumption was the financial constraint.’ That means that the previous government, which I was in my previous post, did not finance either the Home Protection or the Defense enough to maintain the structure that the Center Party obviously thought was right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2357	I see the need to prolong the debate, and it is largely due to the representative Lundtigen. HV is not impaired. The representative of Lundtigen is trying in a remarkable way to turn this debate and this matter into a debate on Home Affairs. Home security is 35,000 men plus a workforce of 3,000 men. It's pretty much the same as the reported number to the head of defense, which shows the actual size of the HV. So it's not just the number of objects that HV is set to ensure, which is the dimensional criterion for how large the Homeland Protection should be. In addition, the Home Office exercises far more now. In 2009, the intervention force did not exercise. The material is being refurbished. HV gets new field wagons. HV gets new weapons – enough about HV. The opposition would like to turn this matter into an acid test following the order of the 22nd July Commission. It's in itself a pretty drastic exercise. I dare remind the opposition that the previous opposition was well guarded to make July 22 a matter for political coins. Yes, there was a choice for increased enforcement in the emergency field, and it has also been shown. I mention briefly: 300 more people are able to deal with sharp situations. We're getting new police helicopters. All police districts have an armored vehicle. A common counter-terrorist centre has been established. The police have increased the appropriations by 2.4 million. kr. That's how I could keep going and keep going. The emergency force has been reinforced by 40 p.m. and the bomb squad has been strengthened. It says in itself that this government has been extremely concerned about the emergency response field and delivers results. Then you can use this case to enlarge it altogether out of its proportions and out of its cause-effect context and say that this is the ultimate proof that this government has slept on its guard in the field of emergency. It's not repulsive. It's a caricature, and it's the opposition unworthy, especially in the light of the factual, formed and respectful behaviour of the previous opposition after this national tragedy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2368	I do not intend to extend the debate unnecessarily, but the representative of Kolberg was concerned with a question that I have to answer. He said something like what I said was not documented, and he suggested that what I said about why parts of this material are secret, was not right. Let me try to re-explain this. Of course, I have to stay within what is open. When it comes to determining whether something is secret, confidential or open, there is no professional judgement; there is a decision taken by political leadership, by the Minister of Defence, in the Ministry of Defence. But the Minister of Defence, political leadership, like political leadership in all other departments, has to deal with the laws adopted by the Stortinget. So the breach has adopted the Security Act, and the Security Act says about security levels: ‘COFFIDENCE shall be used if it could compromise the security of Norway or its allies, the relationship with foreign powers or other vital national security interests if the information becomes known to unauthorised persons.’; That's what the law says. If you have information that is the nature of the legal text I just referred to, and you publish it, you break the Security Act, you break the Storting's decisions and assumptions. It must then be assumed that if political leadership in the Ministry of Defence has that kind of information, it must be confidential. We had a round at the closed hearing – I feel pretty sure this is within what I can say in an open meeting – and there we got clear feedback that those who assess this purely professionally, those who are our foremost people in assessing what kind of information is what we are talking about here, and who is not, were ready in their speech. So the question is, is the opposition really expecting it to be set aside, that you should still publish it, even though you have been informed that this is information that should be confidential? I don't think the opposition means that. That is what I said in my speech – that the Minister of Defence, political leadership in the ministry, must follow laws and regulations. It's the Stortinge that has passed the Security Act, and we've got clear indications from our best professionals about what information we're talking about here. If this information had been made publicly available, the defence minister would have broken the Security Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2384	It has been interesting to listen to the debate. I have to agree with the rapporteur that there are some things that stand out after a debate like this. One is that the majority in the Grand Chamber confirms the Riksrevision's findings, they insist that it is a very serious criticism directed at today's government. It is also clear from this debate that the secrecy in this case means that we have not really had an open discussion of the whole picture. Among other things, we will have: not discussed the full recommendations made by the Riksrevision. I must note that the Right is still looking back and will not discuss what HV we actually need in the future – or what HV we should have in the future. The confidentiality of the case really detracts us from seriously going into the discussion of what recommendations you have regarding HV in the future. But the Central Party's view is that preparedness needs to be strengthened, and that requires more people. It requires more people who are trained and who are able to act quickly, no matter where in the country it is. When the right even starts using former heads of defense against the Center Party, there is not much powder left – to put it that way. What remains after this debate is what the representative Gahr Støre said: the right started the debate by promising far better preparedness, they will end this process of enlargement by getting a hard criticism of preparedness. They had no control over any of the most important things we could do in terms of preparedness, namely to secure a number of important objects in society. That is what the Storting admits today, and that is also important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2391	I now refer to the Minister of Defence's last speech, where she very clearly stresses that she is now behind the findings and conclusions of the National Audit Office. That's good. I'm giving her recognition for that, because that's what we need to know in this debate, so we have the security of how things follow up in the continuation. When I said what I said in my previous post, and which I understand the Council of State reacted to in part strongly – also with some characteristic and stigmatizing expressions about me, but what I let go of in this round – relates to two aspects: what the Council of State itself has said in this debate. One is that she does not agree with the claims or with the conclusion to which the majority of the Storing agrees that this has not been given sufficient priority. That's a key point in the criticism. It is necessary to get the emphasis, but now she said that that was not the case, and then it is to the extent that part of the discussion above. The second is, of course, that she believes that the understanding of the answers that she and the former Minister of Justice and Preparedness gave to the questions from the Riksrevision was not what the majority of the Committee thought, i.e. that there was no adequate answer, because they had answered anything other than what we thought they had answered. That's the kind of statement I think hurts about where you place yourself. But we might be able to figure this out once again. It would be nice if we could set a point for this, so that we can establish that the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence agree on the matter. That would be fine – before we end this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2400	The chairman of the committee does it once more when he says it's good that in my last post I now emphasize that I'm taking this seriously. I have underlined it all the way – from the first consultation, through closed consultation, through debates in the Stortinget and through public mention of the matter. This is not something that has appeared today, this is something we have taken seriously all the way, and I have given additional reasons why the work took more time than expected. It is also the case that in the open hearing I answered the question of the criticism that had then come not to give so-called adequate answers. At that time the chairman of the committee opened the hearing saying that he would like my comment that the Riksrevision did not accept my answers. He called it "nearly national history", but I don't know what's in that term. The point is that the Riksrevision never said they didn't accept the answers. And why would they do that? They ask two councillors to respond to what is being done now, and, if so, to agree or disagree. Both the former Minister of Justice and I could probably fill out our letters even more, but we have thus completed that picture through the hearings that have been and given explanations. So to Home Protection: if we were to discuss in detail the tasks and size of Home Protection relating to object protection, we couldn't in any case do it in an open hall, because it would be so closely related to classified information about individual objects, about sizes, about geographic location, etc., that we had to do it anyway closed. It has nothing to do with the question of the further unupgraded summary. But these are discussions that we both take and like to take forward, and in addition to what is already in the long-term plan, the government is going to make recommendations to the Stortinge in the autumn. Finally, I am unable to push myself for a slight comment. When Marit Arnstad says that when the Right uses a former head of defense against the Center Party, there is not much powder again, I wonder who is using a former head of defense. After all, it's the Center Party that uses a former head of defense to attack the government. Then there's nothing else to wait for but that both the defense, the press and the politicians remember what that defense chief did and suggested when he was the head of defense. And there is nothing else to expect, either, that a government that is under attack by a former head of defense must also be at the ready of what he said at the time. And not only that; the previous government must also be prepared for this former head of defense to think that the financial framework was obviously far too tight to give a good enough defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2409	Since all of us at one time or another are going to be "earlier" – something faster than others – it might be worth remembering that one will be reminded of what one said and did before. But that's not why I drew myself. That was for two reasons. The first was that I may have reacted a little to the tone the Minister of Defense appealed to the committee leader in his last two posts, because I can't quite see the basis for it, among other things. because I myself have noticed what I have perceived as the defence minister's lack of willingness to say clearly that she accepts and acknowledges the Riksrevision's main conclusion. I have no idea at any time that questions have been asked – therefore I do not do it myself either – whether she takes the criticism seriously. On the other hand, the Riksrevision's key conclusion is that neither the Ministry of Defence nor the Ministry of Justice prioritised the work on object protection for 2015 – a very serious criticism. I have not understood that the Minister of Defence has clearly said that yes, that is enough, or clearly good for it from here. In a line-up instead that began with the representative Christensen, I perceive on the contrary that she let it be done. I understand that the committee leader pointed out, and I can't see any basis for that kind of claim from that. So I'll just say two words in a short time. One thing is that I understand that a conclusion can be drawn from this debate, and sometimes from control cases, is that even if national audit reports may be missing, even if they can make mistakes, and maybe they are sometimes exaggerated, they have their function. In this case, there is much to suggest that they have been an important contribution to improving preparedness in Norway. There's been a change, we're hoping for the last two years. The second is that I thought the representative Arnstad, who has sat and listened to the debate, enough summed up the essence of what we take with us in the criticism further, in a very precise way. It has been too open in this matter, too low a standard. That standard has to be brought back to the one that was after the terrorist attack on July 22nd. And the second is that the government in its period and in the two years examined here, not well enough followed up that work on preparedness, and object protection specifically, which they went so high on the path before the election, and which to a large extent a collusive growth ended up about before 2013. It will remain after the discussion today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2420	What the Central Party has wanted with regard to the debate on the future and how we should improve the preparedness for what the government is now receiving from strong criticism from the National Audit Office is an open debate on what is required within the police, on what priorities are being made within the police, but there is also a debate on the protection of the future at home and what is needed there. We believe that there is a need for a build-up of Homeland Protection, while the Right is paying attention to today's, or maybe a decline, and that's fair enough. When the Council of State, instead of going into that debate, pulls out former heads of defence, it's okay for the Central Party. We can also bring out former heads of defense that we believe are leaning on. But we have to get started in this room with a discussion about what home security and what land power we actually want and need in the years to come. We do not have the real opportunity to go into that discussion today, for example. because the Council of State chooses the rather simple answers, but also because the secrecy in this matter makes it impossible to discuss the whole picture in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2427	I find it difficult to half-refer what the E-Manager said in the closed hearing. But what is the situation is that there is a distinction between what is information of intelligence value and what should be automatically read under the Security Act. There's no automation there. There is a lot that can have intelligence value. There is a lot of information in the newspapers every day, and this probably also applies to the Commission's report on 22 July. The fact that something's interesting doesn't mean it's supposed to be secret. I actually took the floor because I reacted a little to the comments of the representative Harek Elvenes – he joined in the debate. He said that several opposition representatives – as he said – behave as if this was a follow-up on 22 July. We don't, but many of the issues in the National Audit Office's report are about learning points after the Gjørv Commission. It's about cooperation, it's about the follow-up to the regulation that the whole Stortinget adopted. This is a joint political cooperation that Stortinget has had since 22 July. I also reacted in particular to the fact that the representative Harek Riveres describes himself as a member of the ‘former’ previous opposition. I have dealt with the follow-up of 22 July, I have been in the previous control committee, I have been in this control committee, I have attended hearings, I have been in this storage room where representatives from the so-called previous opposition will not be winners of any dignitary competition in this respect. So I recommend not to start that ballet.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2436	I opened all my articles in the hearings with what I also opened with today. Let me repeat a key point from the hearings: I look seriously at the weaknesses in object protection that are pointed out by the Riksrevision. The main findings of the National Audit Office have been and will be very important in the further improvement work. I don't think it's possible to say much clearer that the Riksrevision's findings are at the heart of the work that has been done, and the work to be done, with object protection. It has helped to show the seriousness of the government's criticism that has come. Then we've also been busy presenting to the Storting the measures that have been taken to improve the situation. I have also been very clear that although we had priority in the object protection work, it did not go quickly enough. In particular, there were some components that contributed to it. One was that the key objects had to be re-designated because no key objects were identified between November 2005 and 2012. There were revisions and changes in key point directives, there were revisions and changes in instruction work, and that was important, because changes were also made to what was to be considered as key objects. The work on the designation of the military, but in particular of the civilians, took place at the same time as the defence was to make major revisions to the defence plan for Norway, which are also important. Much of the competence was either away from the organisation or on a demanding foreign assignment, and there were several people here: registration and protection under the 2010 regulation were not in accordance with the deadlines. This is not to take away the criticism in any way. On the contrary, it's just to give the Committee and the Storting sometimes — an adequate explanation of why it started later and took more time than you had foreseen. In addition, as I said, this was both a cost-intensive and resource-intensive work, where I believe in many cases, in particular, costs were underestimated early in this course. So to what land power we want. That's what the government is now doing a lot of investigation work on. The Landmakturdreund presented yesterday's status report. It provides a very good basis for discussing this. This means that the Stortinget – when the proposition comes to the autumn – will have a good professional basis for the discussion. At the same time, I would like to stress that the defence assistance to the police in the area of social security extends beyond HV, and it is important that we also have other capacities to assist – both in daily and general social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2451	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2456	The centre party is probably looking very forward to the debate on land power, which happens to come after – and not before – the elections, and we can promise the defence debate in the future, both on HV and on other things. We would like to take that debate, because it is really about two different schools in defence policy. The right leans heavily on the Dien Doctrine in the case of the Defence. It's not the Center Party, and we'd like to have a discussion about that. But I find that today the Centre Party does not get, and I, once again, the opportunity to refer to the full recommendations of the National Audit Office, and therefore is not given the opportunity to take any of that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2464	With the risk of irritating viewers around the office too much: The Minister of Defence's posts now were entirely consistent with what she said before, but not entirely with what the Riksrevision concluded, for they concluded that there was no prioritisation. She says, "We prioritized it, but it went a little slowly anyway." They examined the period until 2015, from the time of the adoption of the instructions. It places considerable emphasis on the period 2005–2012, when few objects were pointed out. That's okay, of course, it's legitimate to nuance and maybe it's even right. However, when someone in the Committee shares the conclusion of the Riksrevision, she must accept that she is given factual criticism and that questions are asked about why she does not quite exactly share the Riksrevision's conclusion. That was my point, and I didn't think it was the basis for using such strong words and such a strong tone. On the contrary, I think it would have been a better basis for us to conclude that the main conclusions of the Riksrevision in this report are correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2471	I must say that I have followed the debate of the representatives of the Central Party with greater and greater wonder. So here we're trying to make a very serious debate, from which we're all trying to learn, into a debate about Homeland Protection and the future setup of Homeland Protection and the basis for whether we know that we have enough capacity to protect our homes in the country. It's a way of bypassing the debate we're really here to take. So now it's not like the representative Arnstad said in his last post, that we 'accidentally' get the land estate after the election. It was a unanimous increase asking for the post-election Land Powers to be granted in the context of the budget proposal. We have received a home guard that has received a strong reinforcement after the Central Party left the government offices, both in terms of material, practice and training, etc. Only in the last year have we had a budget increase of 191 million. kr. So to the insinuation that comes from Arnstad that it's the central party's policy and thinking about this that's right, that we others think wrong and not based on professional advice. Well, let's do that. That's exactly what we're doing. Then I would like to quote from the hearing, where the head of defense was asked by the head of the meeting about Homeland Protection had the resources to do the task they had in object security, and where he answered: "I disagree with that. Home Security has got what they need. They want more. That's how it works in our system. But at my best, the Home Office has had enough to implement the object protection they are assigned to." As trade unionists, we must deal with this. We also have to deal with professional military advice we get in every other context. We also did so with the professional military council that we received at the previous crossroads. We added even more to the professional-military council, with more resources in our long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2485	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2501	There are unanimous committee comments on this national audit report, which means that I should not delay the time too long to shed light on things that have already been highlighted in the summary and which have also been highlighted in our comments. So I'm going to try to be brief – that's something that hasn't been popular so far today. I would like to refer to the conclusion of the Riksrevision. In the report, the Riksrevision refers to the debate we have just had, and it is regrettable that we have not come any further. It shows the importance of object protection in the overall preparedness process. After 22 July, one of the most important lessons was that cooperation between agencies must work. It was one of the most important things. Therefore, it is worrying that challenges remain with regard to the follow-up of cross-sectoral exercises and events, including: related to the allocation of responsibilities and tasks and the concreteisation of learning points. It is a core area that must function in order to have an overall operational preparedness. The national audit indicates that a part has been done. Something has been corrected since the previous survey, something is going on, and something remains. Previous investigation, just to refresh its memory, was a study of the Ministry of Justice and Defence's work on social security and preparedness. There were some discouraging and very serious findings that led to a thorough review of the Storting, and I think we needed that, not least to look at how the measures and decisions we take work with reality. The National Audit Office says that the follow-up to the supervision of the departments has been strengthened. That is good, but the basis for demands remains unclear in important areas. This makes work difficult, according to DSB, for an overview of risks and vulnerabilities, the quality of emergency work in any activity, including in a department. The national audit considers it critical that the requirements in this important area have not been sufficiently clarified. The Committee also points out that it is of particular concern that there is a difference in the perception that the departments have a separate responsibility to have an overview of the risks throughout their sector, or whether they can rely on the analysis of the underlying enterprises. That's something that's important to have clarity in. The National Audit Office writes that both etat and business management have improved. That's good. It was necessary, at least based on what one could read in the previous report. The National Audit Office writes that they recommend that the Ministry of Justice and Security clarify the basis for monitoring emergency work in the departments. That is something that the Committee feels makes sense. Taking the initiative to make the follow-up of municipal preparedness work more uniform was a promise that came, and it has been taken care of. The National Audit Board also recommends emphasising the results of the mission preparedness work in governance, strengthening the cross-sectoral follow-up of exercises and events and strengthening the work on the establishment and activity management of the DSB. But when it comes to the balance between the state's tasks and resources, it's better than before, but what's a problem is that there's a big difference in the exercise of preparedness between the states. There are still challenges to governance, and it is very problematic, because it is important to have the same good performance of preparedness work in all states. The Committee points out that the additional resources allocated to the work of the state in the field of social security and preparedness were equally distributed among the counties, irrespective of their local structure, irrespective of other preparedness challenges in each state. The Committee refers to the Riksrevision’s assessment that the actions undertaken will address some of the challenges identified in the previous study in the long term. The Committee expects those measures to have the long-term effect, because we need to strengthen the governance dialogue, and we need to strengthen internal interaction in particular. The previous study by the National Audit Office shows that the Ministry of Justice and Defence did not sufficiently facilitate systematic learning from events and exercises. It was one of the things that the Storting discussed most recently, because this is a key point in operational preparedness. The National Audit Office says that the measures now in place can have a long-term impact and the Committee shares its hope. It is a unanimous committee that has these comments. It is a unanimous committee that follows the recommendations of the National Audit Office, and it is a unanimous committee that hopes that the measures taken by the Ministry are both adequate and will solve the problems in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2522	I will join the rapporteur's proposals. There's only one point in the setting, which is unanimous, which I want to elaborate. That's what it says: ‘The Committee will stress that clear, unambiguous coordination at department level is important and necessary in order to enable the departments’ underlying agencies to do an efficient and good job in line with the agreed political will.’ The question of preparedness is incredibly demanding. It is located in many different areas of public administration. The municipalities are responsible. The people are responsible. There are many different departments in charge of the departments, and there are therefore different departments in charge. There is a need to get more overview, to remove the inaccuracy in this area. When dealing with matters related to emergency planning or to ensuring that the emergency response is in place, a fairly quick experience is that there are many grey zones and ambiguities in responsibilities. So with this comment from a unanimous committee, as a member of the Central Party in the Committee, I would like to say that there is a basis for clearing up, getting a clear responsibility, a clear authority, so that those put in all these public bodies can do the job easier, cheaper and more effectively. I just wanted to underline it as a central part of this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2534	The government has provided a significant boost to the overall commitment to social security, which is one of the areas of activity of the government’s political platform. The government provided a big message on social security, Meld. St. 10 for 2016–2017, Risk in a Secure Society, December 9, 2016. The paper outlines government policy in the field of social security and is the government's strategy for social security from a four-year perspective. The notice of cancellation was adopted, cf. Inner. 326 S for 2016-2017. I am pleased that the National Audit Office points out that social security work is now moving in the right direction. The National Audit Office’s analyses make an important contribution to the further work of the Ministry of Justice and Security in the field of social security. The work on social security and preparedness is continuous, and as the Council of State, I will always seek to improve efforts. Monitoring the work of the ministries on social security is a key instrument in the Ministry of Justice and Security in the exercise of the coordination role. On behalf of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, has been supervising the departments for three rounds since their inception in 2001. The Ministry of Justice and Security has strengthened the follow-up to supervision in a number of areas. Firstly, ‘breakage of requirements’ has been introduced. The Ministry is monitoring supervision in the event of a breach of requirements and significant improvement points have been followed up. Furthermore, the government is informed twice about each supervision and the supervisory reports are public by transparency. In addition, DSB is closely involved in the follow-up to the inspections. I agree with the Riksrevision that the basis of requirements is important and that the requirements of the 2012 instructions should be clarified. This has also been pointed out by the Directorate for Administration and ICT, Diffi, and the Swedish Defence Research Institute, FFI, in its evaluation report, which I have received on the evaluation of the third oversight round with the departments. As indicated in the Social Security Notice, changes to the 2012 instructions are now being made and clarification of the requirements for the ministries is included in this. In this context, it also considers the specific requirement to have an overview of risks and vulnerabilities, as the Riksaudition draws up. Work will be completed in the current year. I note that the Riksrevision shares my view that the new instructions for the State's social security work have helped to clarify the tasks to be performed in the field of social security and preparedness, and that it clarifies the roles of the State in the event of an unwanted incident. I would also like to stress that the exceptional migration situation in the autumn of 2015 provided a great deal of learning in terms of coordination, so that they are now better able – overall – to carry out the role of coordinating authority at regional level. I am pleased that the Riksrevision indicates that the offices have been strengthened by 10 million. to social security and preparedness, and that this has provided a better balance between tasks and resources. I support that assessment. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of the internal priority of social security work. The Riksrevision's findings in exercises and events are largely consistent with my opinion and well describe the challenges facing the ministry. In the context of the National Audit Office’s description of the state of play in the evaluation and follow-up of exercises and events, I would like to highlight in particular the new requirements introduced as a result of the National Safety Survey. Learning by exercises and events is one of the eight key areas of priority in the Single European Act. These are areas where the government will pay particular attention to the next few years. The follow-up of drills and incidents shall not be deemed to have been completed until all the points in the action plan have been satisfactorily followed up. The outcome of the follow-up of exercises and events of a certain size or severity shall be reported to the overall body. The new training requirements shall strengthen learning throughout all parts of the exercise cycle and ensure a good follow-up of findings after exercises and events. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Justice and Security should focus on the cross-sectoral follow-up of exercises and events. I agree that this is necessary. Report. St. 10 for 2016-2017, Risk in a safe society, just mentions this. I will ask the DSB to follow up the work, among other things. through the National Training and Evaluation Forum and the Ministry Training Forum. I am pleased that the Riksrevision believes that the establishment and business management has improved. The Ministry and the Directorate are continuously developing the establishment and activity management, and the DSB has launched a number of measures to improve business management. Prior to the preparation of the 2018 letter of allocation, the Ministry and the Directorate will work to further develop the activity-specific objectives of the DSB. The objective is to ensure better coherence between national preparedness targets and DSB reporting. I believe that the Ministry has launched a series of actions that have contributed to improvements in the short period between the main audit and the follow-up audit, but at the same time I am very aware that there will always be a potential for improvement in the work on social security and preparedness. The area of social security is complex and distributed among a number of actors that perform different tasks. The different levels of government have their roles in preventing and rusting society for different events and will also take lessons from the events in retrospect. It's a continuous work to be familiar with each other's responsibilities and roles, to learn from these experiences and to be able to implement improvement, so that we can better deal with the same type of events next time. I believe that the Ministry of Justice and Defence is well on track to improve this work, which is reported by the National Audit Office in Document 3:8 for 2016-2017. I appreciate the recommendations of the National Audit Office and base this on my further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2572	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2588	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the President, 5 minutes to the principal figures of the other parties and 5 minutes to the members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2597	This case concerns the National Audit Office’s investigation into the sale of two F-5 fighter aircraft by the Defence Agency and has its background in the case of the sale of used and unarranged defence equipment, cf. Inner. 213 S for 2015-2016 and Innst. 213 S Appendix 1 for 2015-2016. The case of used and discontinued defence equipment started already in 2014, when Dagbladet had a notice on the sale of marine vessels to Nigeria. During the examination of this case, the Committee was subsequently also made aware of the sale of two F-5 fighter aircraft, which were sold to a private company in the United States. This sale was also included in the hearings on the case of the sale of end-of-life marine vessels, and since the Committee was not satisfied with the responses of the fighter aircraft, during the hearing, a majority of the Stortinget Riksrevision asked to review the entire sales process of the two F-5 fighter aircraft operating in the United States and sold to the US company Northern General Leasing LCC, NGL, in 2015. As early as 1999, the majority decided to phase out 15 F-5 fighter aircraft. These have since been tried to sell to several stakeholders. A total of 15 stakeholders have been involved in attempts to sell the aircraft. After ten planes were subsequently donated to museums and educational institutions, two aircraft were sold in 2015 to Northern General Leasing, NGL. The main findings of the National Audit Office following a review of the sales processes from 2003 to 2015 have shown a number of deficiencies in the disposal process: The defence and the Ministry of Defence had a lack of understanding of the export control legislation in 2003. In the sale, the US authorities had a decisive influence on the use of F-5 aircraft. The defence's follow-up to the work on disposing of military material has not been good enough. The Ministry of Defence has failed to discharge its overall responsibility in the area of disposal properly. There has been weak traceability in the process of selling the F-5 aeroplanes. There has been a breach of the principle of equal treatment of stakeholders. The Northern General Leasing LCC received a competitive advantage over other stakeholders due to the storage of the aircraft. The follow-up of stakeholders by the defence logistics organisation has been different. The defence logistical organisation’s requirements for stakeholders have been different. The final sale did not facilitate maximum dividends. The National Audit Office’s investigation has been based on a number of decisions and assumptions from the Storting. I would like to highlight the following, although it is not exhaustive: Act on Control of Exports of Strategic Goods, Services and Technology, etc. export control laws; normal instructions for the stripping and cassation of materials and buildings and for the disposal of property belonging to the country, i.e. the normal instructions The Committee points out that weapons cannot be sold to countries or territories where there is war or where war threatens. This is a principle which was laid down as early as 1959 and laid down in the Export Control Act. On several occasions, from 2003, the defense has tried to sell F-5 fighter aircraft to land and non-licensed companies. It shows that neither the Ministry of Defence nor the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have had a good enough understanding of the export control legislation. The Committee is of the opinion that these sales attempts should have been stopped at an earlier date by the Ministry of Defence as an exporter or by the Ministry of Defence in dialogue with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Already when it became known that there were countries and/or companies that obviously would not have been licensed, the sales trials should have stopped. In 2009, a contact forum was set up to provide a better understanding of the Export Control Code in Defence. However, this ended in 2011 as a result of a letter from a department in the Ministry of Defence other than the department participating in the Contact Forum together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the FLO. The contact forum only started again in 2015. The Progress Party and the Central Party agree with the Riksrevision that it was unfortunate that the meetings of the Contact Forum were stopped between 2011 and 2015. But since 2015, according to the Ministry of Defence, there have been regular meetings between the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence and Defence, which were established in 2016. The Riksrevision believes that the follow-up to the attempts to sell the F-5 aircraft has been too weak and that neither the management of the FLO nor the Defence Staff has ensured that the laws and regulations have been complied with or that the traceability requirements have been met. The National Audit Office considers this to be critical, and the Committee agrees with the Riksrevision. Furthermore, the Committee would point out that there is no lack of formal legislation that makes the disposal defective but that it is the actual performance of the work that is too poor. The Committee would stress that the weak traceability and lack of record-keeping of the sales processes of the F-5 aeroplanes are not in line with the requirements of sound procedures and good management practice. This is critical. The Committee points out that the Council of State supports the assessment that the follow-up of the defence to the disposal of military material has not been good enough and states that in recent years the Defence and Defence Ministry have taken a number of measures to ensure sound management in the event of the disposal of military equipment. The Committee also finds it critical in this case that not all stakeholders have been treated as equivalent in the sales process. The Committee would point out that the sale of defence equipment is initially to be carried out in a way that provides the greatest economic benefit and that several of the sales trials were rejected as unfounded. However, the Committee has noted that several of the sales trials were stopped when it was found difficult to get the sales authorised by the US authorities. In order to effect the sale, the FLO finally offered the aircraft at a symbolic price to the Spanish authorities, which, however, rejected this. It has recently emerged that the NGL had overheard the price at which the Spanish authorities were offered the planes, but although it was unfortunate that this was overheard, probably the price of $30,000 was the only realistic solution at that time. The Committee understands that in 2015 the FLO finally chose to dispose of the aeroplanes at a price under previous price offers per F-5 aircraft for the period 2003-2015, but considers that such a long disposal process is too long. The Committee has noted that although the Riksrevision has revealed many defects and defects in the disposal of the F-5 aircraft, the Riksrevision has not found any evidence or evidence to suggest any defects or corruption in the sales. Furthermore, it has not been revealed that the aeroplanes have been used without approval and under satisfactory control. The Committee considers this to be reassuring. During the hearing on the sale of military equipment, questions were asked from the case rapporteur to both the head of defence and FLO regarding the sale of the aircraft were ‘green’. Both confirmed that the sale was ‘green’. The question to the Defence Manager and Head of the FLO at that hearing on whether the sale was ‘green’ was put in the light of the fact that this was a disposal case in which out-of-court military material was to be disposed of. With regard to the deficiencies identified in the Riksrevision report regarding compliance with the legislation on the sales process of the aircraft, the Committee considers that there was no basis for the opinion of the Defence Manager and Chief FLO at that hearing that the sale of the fighter aircraft was ‘green’, even if the last part of the sale to NGL is green. In the course of the sales process, the Riksrevision has revealed major shortcomings, which the Committee considers to be critical. In conclusion, the Committee points out that it remains to be expected that there will be a need to dispose of used defence equipment, but the Committee assumes that the disposal takes place in an orderly manner and in line with the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2679	First, I would like to thank the case spokesman, who has done a good job in this matter – and actually in the long case that this started with already in 2014, which he himself mentioned. On 26 May last year we dealt with the matter of military material here in Stortinget. Then we had an internal report on the F-5. The report found that the disposal of the F-5 fly was not carried out in accordance with the legislation and that there were missing or insufficient sal protocols. There were also indications that the defense had favoured the NGL. As stated in the report: ‘It may appear that the NGL has been informed about when it has been relevant to contact the FLO, which does not harmonize with the FLO’s practice that leaves the stakeholders to make contact.’ It also states that the NGL, who was the buyer of the aircraft, knew of the price agreed with Spain in 2014, that FLO SAS believed that there was a positive impact on the low sum of sales, and that FLO SAS had told us that NGL had exceeded the discussion between the Spanish Air Force and FLO SAS when they were at Fort Worth in connection with the display of the aircraft. It was so serious that in the setting we asked the Riksrevision to review the entire salsa process in connection with the sale of the two F-5 fighter planes. It was because there were many questions the committee had that we didn't find proper answers to, and we didn't get clear answers in the hearing either. Therefore, it was important for us that the Riksrevision could go through the matter. When the Riksrevision delivered the report, National Auditor Per-Kristian Foss said this was about like a crime novel. The last time we handled the matter, we wrote in the setting - from which I want to refer, because it is quite important - that the Committee's plurality is ‘from the conclusion of the report, it was surprising that both the head of defence and the head of the FLO in the hearing on 27 November 2015 could declare the sale of the F-5 fighter aircraft ‘green’ when there are such major defects in the sales process itself’. The report from the National Audit Office shows that it couldn't be very green. I think it's critical that the defense, despite so much lack at the sale of the F-5 fighter fly, declared the saddle as green. The Riksrevision's findings have been briefed by the case-leader, but they were found among other things. that the defence's follow-up to the work on disposing of military material has not been good enough – but we knew that we have worked a lot on the marine vessel. The internal control of the defence has not been sufficient to ensure that laws and regulations were followed or that the care of traceability was taken. There have been violations of the principle of equal treatment of stakeholders, and NGL – the buyer – was given a major competitive advantage over other stakeholders due to the storage of aircraft. FLO's follow-up and demands on stakeholders have been different, and the final sale did not facilitate the greatest possible benefits. The National Audit Office also states that the Ministry of Defence has not taken over the responsibility for disposal well enough. They have established a framework, but the risk of errors and omissions in disposal work was not identified. There has been a lack of traceability in the process, there have been insufficient routines and systems to ensure the archiving of important documentation, and in several cases there is no justification for the choices made. There are documents that do not exist, undocumented file management before the approval of the hall, and the Ud is missing a journal that lists the documents, write the Riksrevision. There have been many issues of defence in the Committee on Control. This is one of them, and it's actually just an extension of the case for the sal of military material. I think the Council of State has tried to sort things out, but she has nevertheless told us that she has had a problem getting information out. She uttered in a hearing: ‘The main challenge for me in the case has been that it has been difficult throughout the process to obtain complete information and documentation and to confirm or disclaim evidence and information.’ Now I didn't count the rest of the quote, but I'm actually wondering if the council has control over its department.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2712	I refer you to the rapporteur's good introduction. It is a unanimous committee which emphasises that such disposals should be carried out in line with the existing legislation. This is a bad thing for more governments, what we are dealing with today. There's a lack of writing that's created considerable ambiguity, and one can ask why it's such a culture. I just want to pick up a couple of short points. The Central Party has its own comment where we point out that the Ministry of Defence presented to the National Audit Office only in February 2017 documentation which clearly showed that the Ministry already had knowledge of the sales attempt as involved in the Israeli defence industry in September 2003, and we believe it is critical that the Ministry of Defence did not provide the Riksrevision with accurate information at the time it was requested by the Riksrevision. Otherwise, I would like to stress what the rapporteur said about the contact forum that was established in 2009 to create a better understanding of the export control legislation in the Defence. This contact forum ended in 2011 and only started again in 2015. It is unfortunate that this forum was not in place from 2011 to 2015, and it includes various government councils, all of which could initiate the restoration of these meetings. We therefore agree with the Riksrevision that the Ministry of Defence should have made sure that the meetings of the contact forum started again at a long earlier time. Finally, as the representative of Eldegard, I would also point out the fact that the US company NGL overheard the price that the FLO had agreed with another company, and that led to what the Riksrevision describes in its main find, cf. page 8 of the document: ‘The final sale did not facilitate maximum economic benefits.’ So it gave us a low selling price. The Committee has written in its unanimous note that it is regrettable, at the same time as one understands that it happened, because after a while one hardly had any choice. And that's how it ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2728	The disposal of F-5 fighter aircraft has been a long, time-consuming process. The complexity is underlined by the fact that this process has been both part of a collapsing hearing and subject to examination of the Riksrevision. The case is also complex because it dates back to 1999, and because, as the Ministry of Defence's own internal audit has already revealed, it has sometimes been deficient traceability and documentation in the disposal processes of the Defence. In order to respond to the representative Eldegard mentioned the problem of obtaining documentation and information, it was related to the issue of the sale of previous marine vessels, which we have discussed in depth in Stortinget, and that was also the background to the Ministry's setting up completely new procedures both for documentation requirements and for traceability, because we depend on having a notority in such decisions. That was also one of the reasons why we asked about the disposal work in the Department and Defence, and there have been actions that I am not going to repeat here in the Chamber now, because the Committee is well aware of both the checklists and the measures that have been implemented. As you know, the Ministry of Defence's internal audit has produced a report on the internal control associated with the disposal of materials and, in addition, a separate report on the disposal of F-5 fighter aircraft. Both reports were part of the basis of the National Audit Office’s investigation. The National Audit Office’s comments on the Defence and Defence Department correspond mainly to the findings of the internal audit carried out when, in November 2015, they examined the disposal of material in general, and in October 2015 and again in April 2016 examined the disposal of F-5 fighter aircraft in particular. Thus, findings have already been identified and risk mitigation measures have been implemented. It is not very much reflected in the Riksrevision report, and we have also made the Riksrevision aware of that. Then it is important to stress that the Riksrevision has not found any evidence or evidence to suggest any defects or corruption in the sale, and that is an important information. Nor was it discovered that the aeroplanes have been used without approval or that they have not been under satisfactory control. In my reply to the Riksrevision I also pointed out relationships with the Riksrevision report that I wanted to nuance something. This concerns the Riksaudien’s assessments of the sales process back in 2003 and the Ministry of Defence’s understanding of the export control legislation at that time, but also the fact that there should have been weak traceability in the ministry. As my letter to the National Audit Office of 22 March shows, in 2003 there was a dialogue between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on whether it was acceptable to sell the aircraft to Greece and that the aircraft were to be upgraded after the sale by an Israeli company that was also involved in the sales process. The National Audit Office’s documentation has been handed over, also suggesting that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this process expressed that the sale to Greece in question could be feasible even if the Israeli industry could benefit from it. However, I fully support the Riksrevision's assessment that a thorough check by the company Seaways was to be carried out and documented by the FLO before signing in October 2003, in line with the legislation. The evidence in the FLO suggests that Seaways was checked on 11 November 2003, but there is no further filed documentation on how this was carried out and on what assessments were made. In recent years, the Ministry of Defence and Defence have implemented a number of measures to improve this. The National Audit Office also presents in its report that the Ministry has failed to discharge its overall responsibility in terms of disposal, and that this is justified by the fact that it is based on FLO’s insurance. Here I would like to point out that target and result management is a fundamental principle of governance in the defence sector as in the State, too. Trust-based management and non-conformity reporting is the starting point for governance also in the case of material disposal. Then, as the Committee is aware, in some areas we have also done something different, not only based on deviation reporting, but also on other measures. The Riksrevision further concludes that the final sale did not facilitate the maximum possible financial return, and I would like to point out, as I also informed the Riksrevision, that it had still not been possible for the defence to sell the remaining two planes for 15 years with sales attempts. There would be considerable storage or destruction costs, and I also notice that the Committee understands that in 2015 the FLO finally chose to dispose of it at a price under previous price offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2753	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2758	I see the setting that we have for today. There I wrote, and I also said it in my post, that in the earring that we had about this case, both the head of defense and the head of FLO said this was green. Does the Council agree that one cannot call it "green" after we received this report from the Riksrevision?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2763	What the head of defence and the head of the FLO had as a background for their answers in the hearing, I shouldn't wonder, except that both the National Audit Office and the Committee also assume that the sales themselves, i.e. the last part of it, were described as 'green', that the legislation had been followed, and that the documentation was in order. That's what I've also stressed in my communication around it, while I've been very clear that earlier in the process, there have been challenges both in disposing of the planes and with traceability and documentation, and there have also been regulatory challenges. That is why we have implemented all the improvement measures. It has been absolutely necessary, because this is a field where there must be a notary in the decision-making process, and that is something that we place very much emphasis on in the processes that will gradually come about in terms of the disposal of further material.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2768	As I said in my speech, there have been many issues with the Defence and Defence Minister for us in the Control Committee. This is really just a continuation of a long case that we're working on. As I also said in my post: I think that the council has a villa cleaned up, and that seems to me to be very positive. She has said that she has had problems getting information about the marine vessel, but that was also part of this case. She sent this report to Ecokrim. I know that Økokrim does not have a case for it anymore, but still. When we deal with this report today, he is crushing, like a criminal novel, as the National Auditor said. Does the government have confidence in its own department?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2775	I have full confidence in my own department. Had I not had it, of course, the persons who are now in their positions had not been sitting there. At the same time, I think it is important to stress, as I did in the hearings on the previous marine vessels, that much of the reason why it has been difficult to obtain information that is partly very many years back in time, partly that some of the evidence does not exist, and partly that the Ministry of Defence or any other department is not an investigative body. So we depended on some information that we couldn't get out with the homes we have, but it was in return revealed when Ecokrim actually did an investigation. It became a trial, and it became a judgment. I think that is a proper functional distribution between us as government and the courts, that they deal with what might be of criminal cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2785	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2790	I want to be careful to say that what I am now saying is not directed at the current government alone – perhaps almost at least, in many ways – it's about other matters. State Council Eriksen Soreide now says that we have had challenges related to this matter. I believe that it is not an exhaustive expression. I believe that we have a very big problem when we experience such things as this case shows. We in the Control and Constitutional Committee have had two issues that are of the same category: the sale of the boats and the sale of the fighter aircraft. First of all, it's saying that -- there's a common problem, and now I see at the Council of State -- that these things had neither she nor we were told if it had not been for the press. It's not just a challenge, it's a big problem that no one in our systems is loyally able to perceive that here you're doing something you shouldn't, over so long – and then that, from our own national audit, which is all sorts of reason to trust, we're shown that it's almost impossible to figure out what's happened. This is a serious problem for big business and for government. Where is the responsibility? We know the parliamentary responsibility, that is not what I am talking about. But the systems cannot be connected so that you are able to hide such things over time, and yet again are not willing to admit that you have made mistakes. It is correct, as the Council of State says in this matter – which is now on the table – that the last part of the sale of the aircraft was correct. That's right, as she says, and as the rapporteur says, that's right, but everything before that shows a significant system failure. Nevertheless, the heads responsible for Stortinget – the head of defence and the head of the FLO – are in charge of the hearing and say that everything is fine. The head of defense also said – this is a bit free from memory, but quite correctly – that he had the entire sales protocol ahead of him, and claimed his entire authority towards Stortinget. This is a serious problem. I'm really sorry that the head of defense went out, because I told him he should be here and heard this discussion. So he didn't. Why do I not know – he may have good reasons – but he should have heard this, because he also has a problem when we have it like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2803	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2819	The National Audit Office has submitted a detailed notification of its activities for 2016. I present a unanimous opinion from the Control and Constitutional Committee on the notification. It is assessed by the Committee that the notification well describes the work and activities of the National Audit Office in 2016. The Committee notes that the audit effort is divided into three different audit types in 2016, with 65 pst. in an accounting audit, 26 pst. by administrative audit and 9 pst. on company control. The results of the annual audit for 2015 were reported to Stortinget through Document 1 for 2016–2017. This time, too, important issues were placed on the agenda through Document 1. I would like to point out in particular the Riksrevision report on the audit of police and defence object security – Appendix No. 1 to document 1, which the Committee has dealt with as a matter of its own today, and which the Storting has debated in depth, both in a closed meeting yesterday and in an open meeting earlier today. The National Audit Office sent 12 administrative audit reports to the Stortinget in 2016. All these reports have put important issues on the agenda. The results of the company review are reported to the Stortinget through Document 3:2 for 2016-2017. Control of the management of state companies involves several aspects. State ownership has been the subject of considerable attention in the Committee during this magnification period. When the government organises important parts of its activity in companies, it is important that company control is good. There must be real control, so that it also contributes to the learning and guidance of management in the future. Both this and previous messages show that the work of the National Audit Office is absolutely essential for the Storting to carry out its control of government and administration in a good way. Let me, on behalf of the Committee, express satisfaction with the work of the National Audit Office — it concerns all types of audit. The national audit carries out user surveys for the different types of audits each year. The Committee is of the opinion that it is positive that the Riksrevision conducts user studies in the administration. The Committee has noted that the user surveys generally provide good results. It bears witness to the fact that the Riksrevision is an organisation that has a great deal of respect for the administration. However, the Committee has also noted that the user survey on the administrative audit shows that the achievement of the objectives over time is not satisfactory in terms of whether the administration feels that the Riksrevision presents the results in a good, balanced and credible manner. The Committee takes the view that the Riksrevision uses feedback through user studies on learning and improvement in the future revision. During this large-scale period, the Committee has made submissions proposing that the Grand Duchy in plenary instructs the Riksrevision to launch specific studies, as set out below. Section 9 seventh paragraph, first sentence of the National Audit Act. This is a provision to be used with caution, but in two cases the Committee has found it necessary to advise the Storting to avail itself of this option. The Stortingen has asked the National Audit Board to conduct two specific investigations: it is the sale of two F-5 fighter aircraft – the case we have just dealt with – and it is the Stortingen construction project, the case that we are now going to start the treatment of. The Committee is pleased that both Document 3:7 for 2016-2017 and Document 3:12 for 2016-2017 have been transmitted to the Stortinget and are being debated here today, as I have said. The Committee is aware that both of these studies have been very demanding and will again express satisfaction with the work done under great time pressure. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about the National Audit Office's international work and activities. The Committee welcomes the international activities of the National Audit Office and is pleased that the National Audit Office is taking on a leading role in international cooperation to develop standards for different types of audits. The Committee also welcomes the fact that the National Audit Office supports national audits in selected countries, so that they can contribute more effectively to the promotion of good governance. The Committee endorses the content of the Communication of the Riksrevision and it is a unanimous committee that submits this position to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2847	I agree with the rapporteur's statement. I just want to focus on one relationship. As stated in the resolution on the 12 administrative audit reports in the 2016 series of Document 3 that was transmitted to the Stortinget, they have all put important issues on the agenda and provided relevant information to the Stortinget. There are reports produced by the Riksrevision on its own initiative, usually three years after Stortingen’s treatment. It is management reports that are very important to ensure the functioning of management at the will of the Storting, whether expressed by concrete decisions or by unanimous comments. An example of this is the three reports submitted by the National Audit Office on employment and the situation there, with non-payment of taxes and charges, occupational crime and social dumping in the case of public tenders. I would like to thank the National Auditor of the State Auditor Per-Kristian Foss for very important work, which has consequences – the necessary consequence has been disagreement, but that is the responsibility of the Storting. What has come from the Riksrevision has at least provided us with documentation that enables us to do the job in a much better way, and we are very pleased with the work that the Riksrevision has done in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2856	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2873	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 20 minutes to the President, 15 minutes to the principal figures of the other parties and 15 minutes to members of the Presidency. The President would also suggest that there should be no loopholes, and that those who would have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2882	I will now present the Innst on behalf of the Control and Constitutional Committee. 486 S for 2016-2017, on the Riksrevisions study of Stortinget’s construction project, Prince’s Gate 26, new postal and goods reception and entry tunnel. The Committee is gathered on a common understanding of the findings and conclusions of the Riksrevision report. Rarely is there as much consensus as it is in what we present to the Storting in this case. There are also some disagreements — on conclusions to be drawn. I assume that these views are presented by the respective representatives. On 20 December 2016, the Storting decided to ask the Riksrevision to go through the entire construction project Prinsens gate 26 mv. and indicated that there were aspects of the Storting as builders, the basis for decision-making, implementation, the information procedure and the budgetary powers throughout the course of the procedure that had to be clarified. The Riksrevision presented its study on 6 June 2017, which identified significant failures in the planning and implementation of Stortinget’s construction project. The National Audit Office's investigation is summarised with the main findings of the vote – I am aware of that – but I would nevertheless like to read them here from the pulpit. The Court of Auditors study is summarised as follows: The project has had a significant increase in costs which can only be explained in part by the change in character of the project. More emphasis has been placed on timetable and functionality than on ensuring cost control. The project organisation has not been adapted to the complexity and scope of the project. Inadequate investigations are the basis for costly choices. Better quality assurance could have revealed weaknesses in the construction project. There is a lack of legislation to ensure the proper and effective implementation of large-scale construction projects. Extension of the design agreement did not comply with procurement law. The size decision to grant money until the project is taken on an incomplete basis. There is a need to clarify roles and responsibilities between the bodies in the Grand Duchy in administrative matters. The Committee notes that the main findings are very serious and confirm the Committee's position on the budget, that the very significant exceedances are due to serious shortcomings in the planning and implementation of the project, that the builder himself is responsible, and that the presidency and the administration, which constitute the function of builder, are responsible for informing the Storting and proposing the annual appropriations through the budget proposals. I would also like to stress that the Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that the Committee could and should have requested more detailed information on the development, but once I have said so, I would like to add that it is the administration and in this case the presidency that will ensure that the matter is properly informed, so that decisions are taken on the basis of proper procedure. Before I go into the four areas in which the Riksrevision finds itself problematic, and which form some sort of conclusion, I will reproduce the names used by the Riksrevision and which the Committee has also chosen to use. It's for the record. That is to say, the presidency is used as the joint term of the Presidency and the administration under the responsibility of the Presidency and as the specific title of the administration run by an employee director. So until the four conclusions – they are also shown in the setting, but they should be included here for the sake of the whole: The National Audit Office considers it problematic that the Presidency of the Grand Duchy did not ensure sufficient capacity and competence for the planning and implementation of such a large and complex construction project. The National Audit Office considers that no quality assurance has been carried out in line with the Financial Management Regulations of the State. The national audit considers this to be problematic and that such quality assurance could reveal weaknesses in the project. The National Audit Office considers it problematic that the administrative management of the Stortingen did not comply with the procurement rules in the extension of the design agreement. The National Audit Office considers that it is problematic that the plenary session of the 2014 budgetary procedure did not receive information that the costs of the project would increase, all the time when the increase in costs was known to administrative management at least one week before the deliberations. The Committee endorses the Riksrevision's assessments and considers that good and thorough work has been carried out by the Riksrevision, which supports both the conclusions and the four areas which the Riksrevision finds particularly problematic. The Committee considers this to be very critical. Then the Committee is very aware that the Presidency of the Storting, at least in public, through the President, has stated that the National Audit Office's report has not been adequate, because it does not address the challenges of non-delivery, especially from Multiconsult, have meant for delays and other challenges in the project. The National Audit Office explains this, maintains its conclusions independently and notes that there is a lack of governance and planning that is the main cause of the large exceedances. I'm saying that the committee agrees unanimously with the Riksrevision's understanding. The recommendations made by the Riksrevision should be followed up. In particular, the Committee would point out the need to carry out a thorough review of the roles and responsibilities of the bodies in the Grand Duchy in administrative matters and would therefore promote the following proposals: ‘The Grand Duchy requests the Presidency to follow up the recommendations of the National Audit Office and to carry out a thorough review of the roles and responsibilities of the bodies of the Grand Duchy in administrative matters.’ The Committee also considers that the Storting should take lessons from the errors of the process and implement measures to prevent such errors from occurring again, and therefore supports the following proposals for the Storting: ‘The size of the Presidency is requested to ensure that an evaluation report is made after the construction project with learning points The size of the building can be taken into account in subsequent construction projects.’ The Committee has been thoroughly involved in the central themes, in which it is apparent from the Presidency’s reply to the report that they do not have the same understanding as the Riksaudition regarding the framework and requirements for the administrative management of the Storting in the exercise of its function. Time allows nothing other than that in this post I just summarily mention them, and assume that other members of the committee can also elaborate on these. There are questions of responsibility placement. It concerns governance and framework issues. There are questions about the use of state buildings and not the use of state buildings. And it's about cost awareness and whether better quality assurance could have revealed weaknesses in the construction project. I refer to this point in other respects to the vote, as the Committee's views have been expressed in these areas. I would like to say that it is important for me, on behalf of the Committee, to stress that we believe that it was necessary for the Administration of the Storting to take action to improve safety after 22 July 2011. Its administrative management was also fully entitled to assess, and then to implement, measures to meet a need for more space. It was necessary and proper for the Administration of Storting to take the initiative in the rehabilitation and upgrading of the Prince's Gate 26 to a functional standard where security was ensured. That is also the view of the Committee. That is the way in which the process has been handled, as the Budget Committee for the Storting has objected, because it has led to unacceptable exceedances, so great that the Storting has had no choice but to get to the bottom of how this could happen. It was these questions that the Committee dealt with during the budgetary procedure, and our findings in that process made it clear that we had to ask for an unrelenting review from the Supervisory Body of the Stortingen, the Riksrevision, which is now on the table. We say about this in sum that the responsibility lies with the administrative management of Stortinge, under the responsibility of the presidency by virtue of being a builder, but it is very serious that the presidency has not provided the Parliament in plenary with the necessary information about the status of the project, so that it was possible to make informed choices. I have said this twice, but I shall say it again, for this must be formally correct: the builder is the administrative management of the Stortinge, and it is a unanimous committee that states that the presidency in its work on the Stortinge construction project has acted very critically. Then I come to the suggestions. I now choose not to read them. They speak for themselves. I refer to the vote on the presentation of the concrete proposals for decisions, which the Committee unanimously invites the Stortinget to take. As is also apparent from the suspension, the SV and the Central Party are promoting the following proposals: ‘The President of the Grand Duchy does not have the confidence of the Grand Duchy.’ The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection does not support this, but has comments that express strong criticism, which I have expressed. Finally, the whole Storting understands that this is a very difficult matter. The whole Storting understands that this is serious and very regrettable for Stortinget. It is now established that responsibility for this has been placed by the Riksrevision – that is now – and now, therefore, by a unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I would like to say this to everyone who listens to: in order for us now to be able to move forward, it is necessary for our presidency to take on the unanimous criticism, and for one to take on the responsibility of the presidency. That's the words I want to use in this context. But I would like to repeat, in order to make it clear: it is a unanimous committee and therefore probably a unanimous increase which believes that this is the prerequisite for us to move forward in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e2983	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for his thorough work on the matter. I can confirm that it has definitely offered up challenges. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the co-representatives of the Committee. It's going to be something to criticise people a hit, and as one else associate so closely, perhaps not socially, but at least in daily functions. I want to make some limitations. I've heard some say that the control committee is over the presidency. Then I think we should remind ourselves what the matter is not. First of all, it's not a matter of control. The fact that the Control and Constitutional Committee is involved in the matter is due to its history — that questions were raised over time in the context of several budgetary proceedings, which were satisfactorily answered over several years. It was on the occasion that we arranged for the plenary to deal with budgets, that we finally, in December 2016, had to use the legal basis in asking the Riksaudition to go in, also because they have access to documents, meeting minutes and procedural documents that they have not received in any other way. There is one thing for this case is not – it is not a construction account. I see that someone in the press has started to refer to it as the final sum, final line, etc. Then I remember that it is to be built for almost two more years. The project is still not under control. This is seen in today's letter to the group leaders, with the Budget Committee being the copy-address. It states that it is not possible to make the estimates of up-to-date cost estimates that were agreed in a joint meeting between the control committee, the team leaders and the presidency. Well, there might be a reason for that. So the project is still not under control, and the numbers ticking into the administration tend to stay there until someone asks if they are published at a favorable time for the presidency. It's probably after we've taken a vacation. Think about the number 2 billion. NOK, or SEK 2000 million. kr, which is derived from families, households and employees to be used for something that does not increase the functionality of the Storting, which does not improve the daily lives of the representatives, and which can actually prove to be completely useless. It is shown in our work on the matter that the administration proposed to the presidency as late as 30 April 2015 that the 260-metre tunnel extending to the Contra section be cut out, that one could manage without the receipt, as other parliaments put away further from the Parliament building, precisely for security reasons. Furthermore, if we go to the original project, which Stortinget was presented to initially, with the innocent sum of $70 million. For window replacement, ventilation and floor separators that better met fire technical requirements, there is a long way to go. Nor has the audit found evidence of why in the old building, in the Prince's Gate 26, the time had come to establish a new basement under the old one – a new basement. Of course, there are increasing problems when you have to go down another five meters and set up the new base for the building. There has also been a problem with information, that there are external relationships that almost predestined seem to have led us to where we are now, that all other framework conditions than their own choices have been invoked as results. I can mention that it is referenced to the demands of the Riksantikvaren, which, upon closer inspection, does not prove to be a requirement, since he has declined to use intervention homes, but is merely an aesthetic advisor. We have been told how insurmountable it was for constitutional reasons to use State Building – due to power distribution rules – while the lawyers in the Supreme Court have used state building very successfully to delineate a project, which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has for the longest time stated that it is possible to do without breaking into the government's guidelines or resource priorities. Or one explains the need for a tunnel that it would be nice if we had an extra escape route for safety reasons. Significantly, however, the PST or bodyguard service has not been part of the design of the tunnel solution that was chosen. Besides, there would be many other, cheaper, solutions. I remind you that when the project first took note of the very – let's say – overall, not to say superficial, terms in the budget, it was under P26, and then the drive-in was included in the project. Of course, with the tunnel system we have, it would have been a relief if you needed it. The point of these illustrations is to show that very many people other than yourself have been in control of this. The presidency may not have been particularly involved in the project. One of the findings made by the Riksrevision was that in a nine-month period, from May 2014 to February 2015, no agenda was found from the Presidency or from the administrative documents relating to the construction issue, while public statements have been made that this project has been closely followed. You haven't just followed it closely, so you've taken on an organization where you took the construction function yourself, with all of that involved. I think we're just going to steel ourselves and be prepared for more. The right-hand group of the control committee fully endorses the presentation of the case, which has been otherwise nominated by the chairman of the committee, in respect of the excess costs. One can dwell on the choice of expensive solutions at all intersections, sometimes contrary to the alternatives offered by the administration. Let me use the last part of the post to reflect a little bit on how we want it to go forward. It is quite embarrassing that the country's highest elected body, which requires democratic participation, does not have order for the control lines inside the house. It's just not acceptable. And that's also exactly what we've seen when the presidency has blacked out the Riks revision. I am pleased that we have received the Riksrevision as a neutral – let's say – the interlocutor of the Presidency, so that we should not have it as a conflict between the Control Committee and the Presidency. But all they do, and all they answer, is just to remind you of the elementary rules that apply to everyone who wants money from the state to carry out a good project, whether it's a birthplace or a new school, and even the smallest little municipal government is well aware of in the interaction with the councillor. You have to have a budget home, which is something more than a pine tree. You have to have the matter investigated – all its aspects and consequences. When you start to cross the financial limits of the investment, it introduces quality requirements that Norwegian economists have even been the world's leading developer, where you always start with the zero option: what if we don't implement this measure? Is there any other way to solve this? Now you've used the reverse technique. You have adopted one more project, then one more project, and then one more project, and then you see where the journey ends. It is not commendable, and that is why we have rules on it. The Committee therefore stresses that the task is not so difficult as to say that one should go through all these roles and closely examine himself. We've done that here, but what we need isn't really new rules. We need compliance with those we have. We need to understand that the Ministry of Finance, when it makes proposals on the use of approx. 1 billion. kr on the operating side of Stortinget per year and large investments that bind over several years must know where to end. It's called fine, I've learned, Scope control, i.e. you just have the control of where you want to go. It is in this context to be surprised that when the audit presents its six chapters for the presidency, they answer in a seventh chapter, which is the essence of their long letter, contained on page 113 of the report: ‘The Presidency refers to ‘years in which the audit reveals that the size of the plenary session is due to: overall reporting in the budget proposals has not been able to prioritise between the sub-projects or to decide whether any part of the project should be stopped, there is reason to point out that it is not natural to put such questions before plenary. [[n]] It must be assumed that these questions are settled before the matter is referred to the plenary session for a decision on the appropriations.’.» Have you understood what it means to propose something that someone should decide and grant? Of course, they can say no. What has evolved over time is that first the presidency has actually taken all the decisions and assumed possible liability if we were to break it. And then ring, e-mail or send the letters to the Ministry of Finance, which, out of respect for the principle of power distribution, brings in the number that applies. It is otherwise described quite amusing, I think, how an e-mail from the director of Stortinget argues that it is better with round frames – of course much higher than the ones you had – and then adjusts from 1.71 billion. NOK to SEK 1.8 billion. kr. Since the presidency is not assembled in September, the usual referral procedure is that those who oppose it should actively protest. That's a certain difference, I think, at 1.8 billion. SEK and SEK1,71 billion. kr. That's 90 million, according to my head count. kr, which then only triggers a new budget home, without having to argue about it, except, of course, the small concern that you are running out of money. It responds to the fact that the control committee has shown an increasing interest in the budget over the last two years, and refers to other procedures, that they can stay informed by their group leaders. It is also not true when they say that it is reported to the groups on an ongoing basis. It is a strong exaggeration – it is very sporadic and only when it burns, so there can be no information channel to use. This follow-up, not informing about changing circumstances, is a problem. It's just reading the six points, and we'd like to get back to it in the debate, because the roles are basically pretty clear. It's just to follow the rules of the state, which applies to everyone else, and our own financial regulations, which we ourselves have taken from the state and made our own for precisely power distribution reasons. I will end with the mistrust proposals. We don't get there, and there's, of course, someone who asks why, when we have such a long run without hope, to say it like that. Then you could say that what's important in this case is learning, even though the presidency curriculum has been alarmingly low. But there are several presidencys that have been inside the picture, and they act as a collective. Thus, we may not want to do the right and wrong thing in relation to the burdens that the administration has to take directly in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3014	I would first like to thank the rapporteur and the other members of the Committee for a large and in many ways difficult work on this matter, not least because this is the Stortinge's own construction business. Unfortunately, this case is an example of a building case which both the Grand Duchy's presidency, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and the taxpayers would like to be in addition. Why? Well, when a decision in the presidency in April 2011 to rehabilitate the Prince's Gate 26, i.e., P26, started as a relatively simple refurbishment project to $70 million. kr, but ended up as a major rehabilitation job with several additional functions, with a total cost of SEK 1,8 billion. kr, one has to ask himself how this could happen. As a result of the terrorist action on 22 July 2011, there was a strong focus on object protection, and one then the possibility of integrating measures to increase safety in the building as part of the refurbishment project. This was natural, when the July 22 terror probably shook everyone. The first estimate for the total refurbishment, which was then made by P26, was between 272 and 365 million. kr. As a result of the need for increased security, the Presidency decided to include the construction of new postal and goods receivers in the new project. The cost of total renovation of P26 and mail and goods receipts was now estimated to be 660 million. kr. This estimate did not include the cost of new entry into the tunnel to the garage from Wesselsplad/Nedre Vollgate. The 2014 draft budget, which was discussed in Stortinget, did not mention any costs of re-entry and tunneling to the garage from Wesselsplad/Nedre Vollgate, although the Storting administration worked with two different options for re-entry and had a preliminary calculation for this when the budget proposal was discussed. On 5 December 2013, the Presidency decided that the new entry should be moved to the City Hall Gate, and the reason for this was objections from neighbours and Oslo Municipality’s plans for collective transport over Wessel’s place. A new cost framework was estimated at 847 million. kr, where the additional cost of moving the drive-in to the town hall gate was estimated at 80 million. kr. In spring 2014, the cost framework for the entire construction project increased to 1,137 million. kr, which was promoted in the 2015 budget. In June 2015, it increased again to 1,450 million. kr, in the context of the 2016 draft budget. In September 2016, the cost estimate was adjusted once again up to 1,800 million. kr, in the 2017 budgetary procedure. In the cost estimate, like the previous estimates, an uncertainty estimate was included. During the 2017 budgetary review, the Committee was very critical of the exceedances in the development of the P26 as well as the problem of accessing accurate and up-to-date information on the project. The Committee agreed with the Stortinget that the Stortinget should ask the National Audit Board to review the entire building project Prince's Gate 26 mv. The Riksrevision presented its studies on 6 June 2017 and the Committee found that the Riksrevision found significant failure in the planning and implementation of the Stortingen construction project. The main conclusion of the Court of Auditors is set out in nine points. I'm not going to repeat these nine points now, but maybe the first four, which at least I think are important: «The construction project has had a substantial cost increase which can only be explained in part by the change in character of the project. More emphasis has been placed on timetable and functionality than on ensuring cost control. The project organisation has not been adapted to the complexity and scope of the project. Inadequate investigations are at the root of costly choices.’ This is just four out of nine points. The findings of the Riksrevision in this investigation are very serious, and the Progress Party believes that the Presidency of the Storting has acted very critically in this matter. The findings confirm in its budget statement that the significant exceedances are due to serious shortcomings in the planning and implementation of the project. The Progress Party is critical that State Building, which has the necessary competence, was not involved in the project before the autumn of 2013. The Presidency and the Administration of the Storting should have realized that they did not have sufficient competence to carry out such a large and complicated project alongside their daily tasks. One of the reasons for the excess costs is that others have made representations to the project without having critical questions about their necessity and the costs they would entail. This applies, for example: the façade that the Riksantikvaren wished to preserve, and the need for an additional entry into the garage and the postal receiver, as requested by the security officers. In this case, it is not demonstrated that the performance of the façade is a claim of the Antiquarian authorities. Furthermore, there is evidence from the safety authorities on re-run requirements. It is not unusual to want to be promoted, but it is the builder who has to decide on the need and costs involved. The Presidency is responsible for keeping the Storting informed and providing accurate and complementary information on the construction project through the annual appropriations. In examining the 2014 State budget, the updated estimate for the construction project, which was not submitted to Stortinget before the adoption of the decision, was available. The consequences were, among other things, that the decision of the Storting to grant money to the project has been taken on an incomplete basis. Constitutionally, this is very objectionable. In addition, the new estimates showed that the amount limits for the implementation of external quality assurance were exceeded. If the Storting had knowledge of this, Stortinget could have returned the matter to have KS1, i.e. quality assurance. The Progress Party also considers that it is critical that the Storting did not comply with the procurement rules in the extension of the design agreement. The Party of Progress will clarify that responsibility for the exceedances, etc. seventh and last, the Stortinget, of the Presidentship as a builder, regardless of whether others, too, can be reproached for shortcomings in the planning and implementation of the project. The Progress Party therefore fully supports the conclusions of the National Audit Office, and I would quote them from: ‘The Court of Auditors considers it problematic that the Presidency of the Grand Duchy did not ensure sufficient capacity and competence for the planning and implementation of such a large and complex construction project. The National Audit Office considers that no quality assurance has been carried out in line with the Financial Management Regulations of the State. The national audit considers this to be problematic and that such quality assurance could reveal weaknesses in the project. The National Audit Office also considers it problematic that Storting’s administrative management did not comply with the procurement rules when extending the design agreement. The Court of Auditors considers that it is problematic that the plenary session of the 2014 budgetary procedure did not receive information that the cost of the project would increase, all the time when the increase in costs was known in the administrative management of the Stortinge at least one week before the deleveraging proceedings. [[...]] The party of progress joins these comments of the Riksrevision. Furthermore, the Progress Party refers to the Committee's recommendation to the Storting and, for its part, would highlight in particular the proposals for Decisions I and II. In the proposal for you, we say: ‘The Grand Duchy requests the Presidency to follow up the recommendations of the National Audit Office and to carry out a thorough review of the roles and responsibilities of the bodies of the Grand Duchy in administrative matters.’ In the proposal for II, we say: ‘The size of the Presidency is requested to ensure that an evaluation report is made after the construction project with learning points The size of the building can be taken into account in subsequent construction projects.’ The progress party considers the last point to be particularly important, given that the size of the garage in its time had similar exceedances, without we can see that there is any evaluation report as a learning base from then on. As late as today, the Committee received a copy of a letter to the parliamentary leaders from the President informing it that the 1.8-bn framework of the project. kr seems to keep going. Furthermore, the President announces that the criticism that has been made is very serious and that work has been started on a review, with a view to the necessary changes, in particular with regard to changes in plans and legislation for the Storting building project. The Progress Party considers the President’s communication to the Committee – although it is a copy – to be very positive. The Progress Party does not agree with the minority's proposal of distrust. Furthermore, the Party of Progress fully adheres to the Committee's recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3089	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for the job that has been done, in a very demanding case. The National Audit Office's survey of the construction project in Prince's Gate 26, new mail and goods reception and entry tunnel, has been carried out in a thorough manner, in our opinion, on the basis of the assumptions made. On the basis of the mandate given, the National Audit Board was to review and assess the economic development and progress of the construction project, further find answers to the reasons for changes in the cost, schedule and scope of the project and finally assess whether the Storting was provided with timely and comprehensive information on the construction project. However, it is also important to remember what the Riksrevision has not assessed, among other things. the role and responsibilities of external advisers and the legal contracts concluded by the administrative management of the Storting. Nor was the fulfilment by the parties of the requirements of the contract, the eligibility of any claims or the distribution of responsibilities in respect of excess costs assessed. However, what is absolutely essential for the Storting is that none of the facts that the Riksrevision has not assessed, or has failed to address, could have altered the findings and conclusions of the Riksrevision based on its investigation. Before I go into any of the conclusions, however, there is a need to stress that there was a great deal of consensus that planning and implementing projects aimed at increasing security after 22 July 2011 and trying to find solutions for a need for land expansion were important purposes, supported by the Christian People's Party. The national audit has concluded with four areas that one finds problematic. The lack of sufficient capacity and competence for the planning and implementation of such a large project is important to learn from. Based on the National Audit Office's studies and assessments, State Building could have contributed to increased competence and helped to alleviate the lack of competence that was then felt to be a professional builder. It is also interesting to note that the Presidency shares the Riksrevision’s view that the Storting should consider a solution for the future in which State Building can serve as support for the Stortinget building for future projects. Today, as has already been mentioned, we have received a copy of a letter from the Presidency to the parliamentary leaders, which shows that the criticism of the Riksrevision has been taken seriously by setting up a working group to assess the necessary changes in legislation and practice in the planning and implementation of the Stortinges building projects, based on the Riksrevision's points. We in the Christian People's Party think that's good. The National Audit Office's report states that the first contact with State Building took place in the autumn of 2013. This means that the question of professional assistance of the type represented by State Building was not raised until the planning of the project was well under way and important decisions had already been taken. Although there could be formal things, as we understand it had to be clarified, of a more constitutional nature so that state-building could take on such a role towards the Stortinget, the studies presented by the Riksrevision and of what is stated by the Presidency show that these clarifications were never properly carried out. On the contrary, the obstacles, including the alleged capacity constraints that were claimed to exist in State Building, do not seem to be real. The fact that this important issue was not clarified was clearly unfortunate in view of the further development of the project. Secondly, the Riksrevision points out that no quality assurance has been carried out in line with the Financial Management Regulations of the State, a quality assurance that could have revealed – early – weaknesses in the project. This is also a matter which we record as having been supported by the presidency. Then it's right to remind each other that it was the previous presidency, not today, who was responsible for this breach of the procurement rules. External quality assurance of cost estimates for all State projects in excess of 750 million kr shall be carried out before the project is promoted to the Stortinget. There is reason to believe that this type of action could have revealed that the project needed further processing before an elected representative went ahead with the case and presented it to the Stortinget. The serious thing is that the Storting thus made decisions to grant money on an incomplete basis. Then we record that the National Audit Office points out that there have been little assessments of the costs of different security measures. It may seem that a lack of real needs assessment of the measures has been carried out, or we should call it reassessment, as the project increased in complexity. Instead of challenging the advice given to one from the Municipality of Oslo and from neighbours, to mention some of the advisers, it may seem that one has accepted and more closely adapted to the advice, and too little has discussed and analysed the relationship between the costs and benefits of the different options. In other words, it seems that avoiding conflicts with those who gave advice has gone beyond cost control. The National Audit Office’s report shows that attention has been paid to the possibilities for extending the project, while maintaining the original migration schedule after the decision to roll over in 2017. This focus on progress, which in itself is positive, also seems to have played a negative role here because the administration has not taken sufficient time to make necessary and thorough assessments, and perhaps not least investigations, after the project has been greatly scaled up. Yes, the Riksrevision actually writes it this way in its report: ‘This has contributed to the start-up of the project following the assessment of the audit.’ Nor does the Riksantikvaren seem to have made formal demands in connection with the Prince's Gt. 26. Even though the Riksantikvaren gave advice, there is something different than what we thought has been produced as a claim. In the case of the sub-projects, the tunnel and the postal reception, the situation is the same. Nor has there been any requirement from the Riksantik product for the special design of these sub-projects, as far as we can see. The Christian People's Party therefore agrees that what is produced as the demands of the Riksantikvaren cannot be used as a justification for the decisions taken by the Presidency. The National Audit Office has also raised concerns that the plenary session in 2014 did not provide information that the costs of the project would increase, although the increase in costs was known for administrative management prior to the deleveraging process. The information obligation between the Storting and the Government is governed by the Constitution § 82, but there is no similar rule for the relationship between magnification and presidency. Nevertheless, it is important and necessary from our point of view that the general principles of good administration and good practice apply to the Storting as an administrative body. This means that all information necessary for handling cases should be provided. It is a prerequisite that matters dealt with by the Storting should be supported in such a way that the Storting can carry out a proper treatment. That Stortinget did not receive information that the costs would increase beyond what had been reported in the draft budget, believes the Christian People's Party was critical. Nor is information that the increase in costs exceeded the threshold for when external quality assurance needs to be collected, the Stortinget was informed about. The Presidency of the Grand Duchy therefore failed to fulfil its obligation to provide information to the Stortinget. Then the Christian People's Party agrees with the Riksrevision that the Control and Constitutional Committee could and should have requested more detailed information on the development at an earlier date. As the Christian People's Party assesses the matter, we stand behind all the assessments that the Committee has made. We do not support any mistrust proposal. We believe that the Riksrevision has also done a thorough job of clarifying the issues in their mandate, and therefore share the Riksrevision's assessments and conclusions. So we hope that this project can give us a lesson we can use in the organisation of later construction projects here on the house, and it looks like there are already processes going on that are going to do well. We believe that in the Christian People's Party is important and necessary. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's good review.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3126	I would first like to thank both the case rapporteur and Vice-President Michael Tetzschner for the work they have done with the rest of the committee to clarify the facts in the matter. I have to say that it is very exemplary to be part of a college that has that attitude, because it is an attitude that will lead to change. The Control Committee is the Budget Committee for Storing and Royal Houses, and it has not been a culture to go into the budget carefully. We see that it should have been done, it should have been a different culture, which I'm going to get closer to. But in the matter we have now, we are not the Budget Committee; we are the Control Committee. What we have learned in this setting shows responsibilities in different phases of construction. It is a responsibility attached to today's presidency, to President Olemic Thommess, it is the responsibility of the previous presidency, to then President Dag Terje Andersen, and it is the responsibility of the administration of Stortinge, to the Grand President Ida Børresen. The Committee takes a very serious view that the administrative management of the Storting, which is therefore the presidency and the administration under the responsibility of the Presidency, has not been able to deal with such a large building project and that the lack of information on overruns from the administrative management of the Stortinge did not mean that the Supervisory and Constituent Committee did not provide a sound budgetary position for the Stortinge in plenary. The National Audit Board points out that Stortinget was also not informed that the increase in costs exceeded the threshold for when external quality assurance of cost estimates and governance arrangements should be collected. I would also refer to the presidency's statement on page 113 of the report, where the Presidency writes about why the Stortinget at the budgetary procedure in autumn 2014 was not provided with information to the Presidency at the time of the increased cost framework: ‘It must be assumed that these questions are settled before the matter is referred to the plenary session for a decision on the appropriations. This also applies to the issue of the coal mine, where the presidency was presented with proposals for relocation on the same day as the budget of the Stortinge in 2014. It is underlined that the 2014 budget was not affected by this Decision. The decision would not have any impact until the subsequent financial year and was therefore correctly included in the budget for 2015.’ The last two sentences cannot be repeated too often: ‘It is underlined that the 2014 budget was not affected by this Decision. The decision would not have any impact until the subsequent financial year and was therefore correctly included in the budget for 2015.’ This is clarifying. It shows the culture that's going on, and the conditions that we're talking about here are binding on future costs that should then obviously have been presented in full width. That is why there is an overall committee that points out that this well describes how the Presidency of the Grand Duchy does not fulfil its obligation to provide information to the Grand Duchy in plenary, and it is a unanimous committee that considers this to be very critical. We've had a building scandal in the past linked to the Stortinget. It was before my time, in the 1980s, when there was a large construction project around the construction of a new garage and service facility. It was now found that no evaluation report had been prepared for this process, and the Riksrevision also writes that the administration is not familiar with the experience of the project. It's important to remember when we're up in this situation. The question of who should be the builder is important, and the Stortinget became the builder instead of State Building. The decision was taken under the previous presidency, at the then President Dag Terje Andersen, and the main responsibility for that election was, in the opinion of the Centre Party, on the previous presidency. What is the fact of the matter is also found in the Riksrevision's findings, where it says: ‘The first formal letter between Stortinget’s Administration and Statsbyggen was sent at the end of October 2013. The issue of State Building assistance was therefore not raised until the planning of the project was well under way and key decisions had already been taken.» Therefore, information to the Committee on Constitutional Obstacles and Capacity Restrictions on the use of State Building is not presented in a way that we consider appropriate, and it is therefore unanswered why the State Building Competence Environment and Wide Experience from State Building Projects are not used. On the part of the Central Party, it has always been completely incomprehensible why State Building was not elected builder instead of the presidency taking the building owner's responsibility. After all, it's all such a complicated project that it requires the best expertise to be able to do it properly. Otherwise, it has been shown in the project that there is a low cost awareness, and the project has carried out a series of after-sales ambitions. The National Audit Office writes, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings ‘The attention to progress seems to have contributed to the lack of time for the administration to make thorough assessments and investigations after the substantial increase in the scope of the project. This has contributed to the start-up of the project following the assessment of the audit.’» This start-up bias is important to remember. The National Audit Office also writes: ‘The administration of the Grand Duchy has submitted several proposals for cost-reduction measures to the Presidency, but the audit shows that, despite the sharp increase in costs, the Presidency has not at any time adopted such measures in the project. The Presidency has consistently prioritised the functionality of solutions over possible cost reductions.’ It also shows a culture of the presidency. The impact has been strongly cost-effective. The Committee also refers to a meeting of the Presidency on 30 April 2015, in which an alternative solution was promoted without the tunnel to the town hall street. This was rejected in the presidency, and we have noticed that the presidency in an interview with the National Audit Office has justified the decision on security. However, there is no evidence that this tunnel has been a decisive premise for satisfactory protection from neither the PST nor the bodyguard service, because they have not been involved in the design of the tunnel currently being built, nor has there been any requirement beyond the advice given by the safety authorities in the case. There was also a meeting between the Presidency, the Supervisory Committee and the Chairs of the Group and representatives of the Administration on 30 September 2016, which, according to the record, was ‘emphasised that the Presidency has taken a decision on a non-constant building project’. So no initiative has been taken to formally inform Stortinget about this. The representative Tetzschner has thoroughly addressed these issues. Another aspect is the Riksantik product. The Presidency has relied on the demands of the Riksantikvaren for several of the key decisions taken. The Riksantikvaren has not made formal demands on the Prince's Gate 26 and has not expressed any opinion on the other two projects, the tunnel and the postal reception. At an early stage, the Riksantikvaren has failed to use intervention homes against Stortinget, but has been an adviser, and the demands of the Riksantikvaren can therefore, in our opinion, not be used as sufficient justification for decisions taken by the Presidency. The Committee considers that the presidency's conduct has been critical. The centre party has its own comment on this point, which indicates that the mayor has publicly stated that the facade of the Prince's Gate is peaceful, and shows here, among other things. to the following opinion of the Director of the Stortinge in Oslo, Aftenposten, 5 January 2014: «The cemetery of the Prince's Gate shall be completely rehabilitated. The facade is peaceful, so it will last. Inside, we're going to build a new one, so everything has to be demolished." I would like to stress that the decision of the administrative management of Stortinget to preserve the facade of the Prince's Gate 26, on the grounds that the facade was peaceful, resulted in increased complexity – to say diplomacy – and a very large increase in the cost of the construction project compared to the alternative, which was to tear the facade. It is quite obvious that better quality assurance could have revealed weaknesses in the construction project. An external quality assurance of cost estimates and management arrangements for all State projects with an estimated total investment cost of more than 750 million. kr shall be carried out before the projects are promoted to the Stortinget. As a committee, we have noted the Riksrevision report, which shows that it has not been carried out external quality assurance in line with the provisions. External quality assurance of the governance basis of the building project Prince's Gate 26 etc. has not been carried out. Following the assessment of the audit, a review could reveal that the baseline material for the project was immature. With regard to the Committee's own responsibilities, the Committee takes some maritime criticism into account in what we write in the section. We agree with the Riksrevision that the Committee could and should have requested more detailed information on the development. But as a member of the committee, I want to say that until the fall of 2015, there was an attitude – and it was general – that what was involved in both the Stortinget and the royal house was something that one should be very and extremely careful about going into as one goes into other documents. I would then like to refer to the comment made by the Central Party on the state budget for 2016, i.e. in the budget position for 2016, which was issued on 4 December 2015. There, as a representative of the Central Party, I said the following: ‘The member of the Central Party Committee indicates that the cost framework of the project has increased by 305 million. krones. The size shall be managed in a sound administrative manner. There has been a failure in planning and/or implementation. This member shall assume that the responsibility for this is clearly assigned.’;» It wasn't just easy to bring out the last sentence in the context that it applied, and it shows a little bit of the culture that has existed before. The conclusions of the Riksrevision report are that it is problematic that the Presidency of the Grand Duchy has not ensured sufficient capacity and competence for the planning and implementation of such a large and complex construction project. It concerns the last two presidencies. Furthermore, quality assurance has not been carried out in line with the Financial Management Regulations of the State. This applies to both presidency. The third was that one has not complied with the procurement rules. It's about the previous presidency. The final point, that the Riksrevision believes that it is problematic that the plenary session of the 2014 budgetary procedure did not provide information that the cost of the project would increase, all the time when the increase in costs was known to administrative management at least one week before the deleveraging process, concerns the last presidency. So it's the Committee's opinion that it was necessary to rehabilitate the Prince's Gate, etc. to a functional standard where safety was ensured, but the process has not been good, and therefore the key conclusion is that the Committee indicates that the responsibility for excess costs, according to the National Audit Office, lies with the builder. The builder is the Presidentship of the Storting. The presidency of the Great Britain has been very critical in its work on the construction project of the Great Britain. I would like to conclude with the comments that the Central Party shares with the Left Party of Socialism and the Green Party of the Environment. We would say that if similar mistakes had been made by the government, we believe it is likely that the responsible state council would not have the confidence of the Storting. A similar settled relationship between the Parliament and the Presidency does not exist. The essence of the Riksrevision report is that the project has not been well planned and implemented. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that, together with SV, the Centre Party shows that the Presidency must have and must earn the Trust of the Stortinge if the relationship with plenary is to work. This concerns the reputation of Storting. Responsibility must be placed, responsibility must be brought about, therefore the proposal. I refer to the proposal from the Central Party and SV, proposal No. 1:@item: inlistbox Adjective, language ‘The President of the Grand Duchy does not have the confidence of the Grand Duchy.’ It cannot continue with the culture where a person takes responsibility by being seated or where a person takes responsibility by learning. It must have the necessary change, so that we in the public sector have the opinion that such errors are not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3210	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to. The next speaker is Burd Vegar Solhjell – no, I'm sorry, Abid Q. Raja, please! It wasn't an attempt at censorship.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3217	We who represent the most important county in this country, Akershus, have to take care of each other a little bit. It is a little sad that the last post from me in this staging session is about this. I should have talked about something more pleasant, but unfortunately, we need to talk about this too. The facts of the matter have now been well explained by several speakers before me. I can initially join the case proposal of the rapporteur and the manner in which the case has been presented. I will therefore try to be a little shorter. Nevertheless, it is tempting to look at cultural life when we are going to describe this matter. It can appear to the world that exists outside the house as a mixture of a little soap opera, a little farce, a little tragedy – soap opera where everything can happen, farce where there are unlikely and extravagant situations, and verbal humor with a varying degree of sophisticated content or tragedy where there is a drama that has a serious and sad act. In any case, there are many elements that make this matter serious, especially from the outside. What was originally going to cost 700 million. So in 2013, there is now a preliminary price label of 1.8 billion kroner. kr, and we're in no way sure that the final sum ends there. Then we're not going to be surprised if the people out there are wondering what's going on here on the Grand Duchy, and if the politicians have any control at all. When we are going to lead by example, do we seem to have no cost control, why should others then do cost cut and have cost control? Because that's how it is. It seems that the construction project is completely out of control and management in terms of costs, and where we are also in a situation where the presidency, administration and entrepreneurs owe each other. That's not a lucky situation. I hope that the presidency will also agree, and it is also not uplifting to the reputation of the Stortinge. Further, it gets worse when the impression is created that there is not so much danger if the money used for Storting's own projects becomes a few hundred million dollars more than we thought, each time we get a new status update. In an aggravating direction, it has to be added – as presented to us – that it has been revealed that the administration has repeatedly taken cost-reduction measures, without making any significant impression on the presidency. The Presidency may itself answer whether this is correct or not. We have to be able to take into account that there may be alternative explanations here, but we haven't seen them proven yet. Apparently, the presidency also set out information on cost increases that were not passed on when Stortinget dealt with the budget for the construction project in 2014. Even more serious is that the presidency has made a very strange attempt to refute this claim. It is, as far as I can see, essentially indisputable. But once again, the presidency is going to have the word here, and we're going to see what comes out. The Presidency has used arguments that security measures were absolutely necessary as a result of PST recommendations, which appear to have proved to be non-voting. Similarly, the presidency has used the demands of the Riksantikvaren as a justification for several key decisions, which appear to be non-voting. General rules in force in the State relating to procurement legislation and quality assurance have not been complied with – at least apparently not followed. That can also be explained later by the presidency. But it is not good if we, as ‘the State’, do not follow the state’s own procurement legislation – to express it carefully. It is absolutely essential that both the Storing Joint, the Grand Storing Presidency and the Administrative Management of the Storing take lessons from the errors of the process, and implement measures to prevent such errors from happening again. It is a huge and comprehensive job that needs to be done to restore confidence in the population. It is therefore absolutely necessary that the Stortinge today adopts a reasonably comprehensive and rigorous regulation of how the presidency should proceed to the construction project and how the Presidency should report to the Parliament in plenary on how evaluation and learning should be carried out. These decision points are not a pleasant reading, they are not, and preferably both Left and I should have been them in addition. But it seems like it has to, and hopefully it can send out a signal that now Stortinget is taking a grip on this and making proper driving rules, so that we can at least try to restore some of the reputation loss that we have suffered. But most of these points are not pleasant to adopt, because they have a certain undertone – we can say very carefully. At the end, I would like to say a few words about the proposal of the Central Party and the SV on mistrust of the President, but I need here from the Chair to correct the statement in the VG. It was subsequently corrected by VG itself. But it took a few days, and I expect no one has read the corrected version. Everyone reads the first version, and then the corrected version does not appear on the VG web page like the first one. In the first draft, on 6 June, the representative Lundtigen was outside and demanded that the president resign, and there, apparently, was supported by the Left. It has since been corrected by VG. So I didn't demand that the president or the presidency should resign. But I have said that the Storting must not become a protected enterprise, and if there is a serious situation here, it must have consequences. But at no time have I asked any named persons or any college to leave. That's what they say. The left is also fully behind the criticism raised against the presidency, but it is against the presidency as a whole. I have not recorded that anyone in the presidency has an alternative approach to the issues we have raised in the committee. It appears that the presidency acts as a unit. I have not yet noted that there is someone there who believes that someone is more guilty of this than others, or that someone has done things here that the others have not agreed to. I guess they're standing together, unless we hear something else. For the Left and me, it is wrong to place the staging president alone as particularly responsible. Some may disagree with the procedure and the way in which the President-in-Office of the Council, but I do not think that is relevant to the matter. He has initially done nothing but the job, in isolation, to defend the decisions that the college has jointly taken. There may be wrong decisions and bad decisions, but the criticism has to be directed at the presidency as a whole and not at a single person, which I also perceive that the Riksrevision initially does. So this is the distrust proposal from SV and the Center Party, which is based on the fact that the Grandfather does not trust Stortinget, which is completely wrong. In that case, they must believe that Storting's presidency does not have the Storting's confidence, because the criticism from the Riksrevision is directed against the entire prime ministership. There have been poor decisions, but it has been the presidency, as I say, in common. That is why the criticism of the Left is also directed towards a united presidency, which has members from both the Right, the Advance Party, the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party, and not against the Grand President as a person. I find it striking that the other parties in the committee, despite a number of calls from me, have not endorsed the comment that I would like to read. That's the last paragraph of the longer note that Left has written, and I quote: ‘This member emphasises that the Grand President and the Director of the Grand Duchy obviously have a special responsibility, but that it is the Presidency of the Grand Duchy in common with members of both the Right, the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Christian People’s Party, who are collectively responsible for the critical circumstances revealed in the report of the National Audit Office. This member underlines that it is absolutely essential that both the Stortning Joint, the Presidentship of the Stortning and the Administrative Management of the Storting take lessons from the errors of the process and implement measures to prevent such errors from happening again.» The other members of the Control Committee will not agree to this. It reinforces the impression that the criticism does not address the presidency as such when considering the minority proposal, where the distrust is directed to one single person in the college. It leaves an impression, at least beyond this hall, that this criticism initially affects one person alone. So I think it's going to be a little unfair to the prime minister when the criticism is initially directed towards the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3250	The National Audit Office's investigation into the Great Britain's construction project The Prince's Gate 26, new postal and goods offices and entry tunnel, stands out as both thorough and nuanced and well-lit. The National Audit Service has chosen not to engage in any disagreement between Stortinget and Multiconsult regarding the assignment. In my opinion, the Riksrevision’s assessment is well independent of that when it comes to Storting’s own work on the project. Criticism is very strong, and he rarely agrees. A range of representatives, including: The case spokesperson, has had the word, so instead of going through it all one more time, I will briefly present what I focus most on of the critical points. Firstly, the National Audit Office points to very large cost increases in the project, which can only be explained in part by the change in character of the project or by errors made by the consultant. The Court of Auditors particularly points to the increase in costs over the period 2015-2017, where no significant extensions or changes have been made to the project. According to the report, the Administration of the Grand Duchy has presented cost-reducing measures not adopted by the Presidency. Secondly, there was a breach of important guidelines. The project has not been through external quality assurance of cost estimates and governance arrangements, as required by national financial management decisions. According to the National Audit Office, such quality assurance could reveal that the basic material of the project was immature. The size is not subject to the Ministry of Finance's guidance in this area, but could still have followed them when one saw that the cost frame of the project would increase beyond 750 million. kr. In addition, the Riksrevision shows that the purchase regulation was broken in connection with the extension of the design agreement. Thirdly, there was a lack of information for Stortinget, in my opinion. The National Audit Office pointed out that Stortinget was not informed that the expected cost framework would increase when a decision was taken on the project in the State budget for 2014. The Rules of Procedure and the requirements of good conduct require that all information necessary to clarify a matter be presented to the Stortinget. The more complex a matter is, the more important is good information. The National Audit Office points out that the information related to the increase in costs in the 2015 and 2016 budgets was very poor, and this has led to the granting of the guarantee on an incomplete basis. Fourthly, poor distribution and lack of competence have weakened the project and provided the basis for errors. The National Audit Office found that a number of road choices did not provide sufficient analysis. At the same time, according to the National Audit Office, it is clear that the Stortinget did not have enough competence and a strong enough project organisation, especially in the early stages. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, Statsbyggen should also have been included more strongly in the project, and questions are asked about the project model itself. The most important follow-up is a series of proposals on which the Committee is in agreement and which have previously been referred from the Chair. I can't see that Storting's presidency has responded satisfactorily to or explained the criticism. On the contrary, I thought the presidency in general and the prime minister in particular has shown little will or ability to do so, both in the heart of the Storing and later. It's Stortinge's presidency that's the Stortinge's daily lease, our trustees. The Presidency is headed by the Grand President. A central task for the President and the Presidency during this period has been the implementation of this construction project. Majority representatives have not been chosen to hire construction projects, nor the presidency, but in our democracy it is the elected representatives who are to be responsible, including for construction projects. They will make choices, make decisions, acquire skills and ask critical questions. That's it. If similar errors had been made by a government council, which is also not chosen to hire construction projects, but which have been seen in the same situation, I believe it is probable that the government council would not have the confidence of Storting. A similar settled relationship between the Parliament and the Presidency does not exist. However, the Presidency must have – and fortnightly – the confidence of the Grand Duchy if the relations with the plenary are to function. In particular, it is up to the President of the Grand Duchy, with its most central role. The essence of the Riksrevision report is that the project has not been well planned and implemented, that it has not followed all the decisions and instructions that should have been followed, that the Storting in plenary has not been properly informed, and that large cost increases do not have satisfactory explanations. It is, superiorly, the special responsibility of the Presidency and the Grand President. The size can and should not make lower demands on their own responsible leaders than it does on other leaders. If serious errors are detected and insufficient efforts have been made to prevent them from occurring, the responsible persons should just take responsibility for them. SV believes that the President of the Grand Duchy in this matter has not acted in such a way that he can boost the confidence of the Grand Duchy, and so we, together with the Central Party, put forward the proposal «The President of the Grand Duchy does not have the confidence of the Grand Duchy».
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3285	The report on the construction case, which is being discussed here today, is a very serious and difficult matter for the Stortinget. Based on the need to rehabilitate the Prince’s Gate 26 and to implement measures to improve the safety of the Stortinget, the first part of the project was initiated in 2011 and extended to include new postal and goods receptions and new downhills to the garage in 2013 and 2014 respectively. The autumn of 2014 started the construction which is still in progress. A good purpose and a solution that delivered several important considerations have ended up in a project in which Stortinget is strongly criticised both by the National Audit Office and by its own ranks for the management of the project at different stages. The case has, of course, also had strong reactions in the general public. Let me first say that this is a criticism I and the rest of the presidency of course take very seriously. The previous and the current presidency must bear a primary responsibility for the serious errors and weaknesses of the construction project, as expressed both in the report of the National Audit Office and in the recommendation of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I would like to stress that this presidency has taken responsibility for the status and development of the project. The Presidency fully acknowledges that this is a very serious matter for the Storting, as the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee points out in its position. There is every reason to complain that the construction case has evolved as it has done, to the detriment of the entire reputation of Storting. In its opinion, the Committee points out that the Riksrevision has selected four areas which it finds problematic. In particular, I will address these in the following and explain how we will address this in the future. The total rehabilitation of the Prince's Gate 26 with its postal and goods reception facilities and entry tunnel is a demanding and very complex project. In retrospect, there is no doubt that the Storting initially underestimated the project significantly. Future construction projects in Stortinget will have to be carried out with, inter alia: significantly higher requirements for competence, capacity, planning and quality assurance. After the rapid rise of problems in 2015, relevant entities in the Administration of the Grand Duchy have also been significantly strengthened in these areas. The size has been reinforced in building engineering and in project management and legal competence, and external quality assurance has been implemented. It's a priority task for the presidency to make sure that we learn from the experience that this project has brought with it. The Presidency has decided to set up a working group to present proposals by the end of the year on the necessary changes to legislation and practices in the planning and implementation of the Stortinge building projects. The Committee supports proposals for a similar evaluation after the construction project, and I agree with that, but therefore believes that there is a basis for starting parts of this work immediately. As the Committee also emphasises in its position, there is a need for a clearer formalisation in administrative matters of roles and responsibilities between the various bodies of the Grand Duchy, i.e. clarification of the roles of the plenary council, the Presidency of the Grand Duchy, budgetary committees and party groups, respectively. It is natural to focus in particular on construction matters and the decision-making process in this context, including the budgetary procedure in such cases. When major construction projects are to be carried out, it must be carried out in such a way that the whole of the Storing understands and participates in the key decisions in the case. The task of the Presidency is to present a draft budget to Stortinget. It is done on behalf of the entire Biggest, but it is up to the Presidency to carry out the necessary investigations and to ensure that the proposals are implemented when they are presented in the State budget. During this phase, it is necessary to provide clearer guidance on how such proposals are anchored in the Storting. More generally, a greater degree of formalisation of the administrative powers of the Presidency and an evaluation of the procedures between the Presidency and the administration in administrative matters should also be carried out. Secondly, legislation to ensure the proper and effective implementation of construction projects in the State shall be fully applicable also to the Grand Duchy. The working group shall consider any necessary adjustments due to the fact that the size is not part of the management but without the result that the rules on the quality assurance of construction projects are less demanding for the Size than for the State. I take note that the Riksrevision believes that Stortinget has not complied with the procurement regulations on a particular point in connection with an extension of an agreement. It was before this presidency's time, but I'm aware that an external assessment of this was made at that time that concluded differently. I note afterwards that the audit came to a different result. It's serious and of course we're going to make sure that not happen again. Thirdly, it is desirable that state-building can serve as support for the Storting as a builder of future projects. The Working Party shall clarify the institutional aspects of such a State Building function and assess how this can be put into practice, of course in dialogue with State Building and the State Department. The Presidency has clearly stated that the objective of this work must be to build state buildings in the future as builders in our contexts. In addition to these three points, central aspects of the project are being worked on in the form of evaluation, both in order to prepare the complaint notified by the Stortinget and to take experience into account for future projects. Experience from the ongoing evaluation carried out by the construction project will form an integral part of the work of the working group. In addition to that already mentioned, the Working Party has been mandated to propose amendments also in other areas if it considers that the experience gained from the construction project and the National Audit Office so warrant. It is my opinion that this report provides a sense of value for the Storting not only in terms of construction, but also more generally in terms of the forms of work we have established. I note that the Supervisory Committee and the Constitutional Committee believe that not enough information was provided to Stortinget in plenary on the running down to the garage in the context of the 2014 budgetary procedure. This question challenges the routines of Stortinget for a long time to investigate administrative matters before a proposal is presented by the Presidency. This concerns what I see as perhaps the most central aspect of this matter – the need for changes in this type of work, so that matters such as the one we are now facing, and administrative measures are significantly better anchored in the plenary and the other bodies of the Storting. Of course, it is a priority for the presidency to ensure that the construction project can be completed according to current plans. Both the Presidency, the Administration and the Project Organisation have worked systematically to achieve this objective within the time and cost frameworks in force. There is now good progress on the construction site, and we are following this work closely with an enhanced organisation. The red thread I think goes through the Riksrevisions and the criticisms of the Control and Constitutional Committee, is, as I see it, about a strong need to make changes to what has built up as a long practice in the Storting in these kinds of cases. The task now is to address this, while the construction project must be completed in a good way. The rapporteur of the case and the chairman of the committee concluded that it was imperative that the presidency should take this and the points proposed. I think I can assure the chairman of the committee, Mr Kolberg, that the presidency is so absolute, and we will do our utmost to start the work that has already been requested, so that this can be continued by a new presidency, which will take place after the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3325	I've been sitting in both presidencies, that is. for eight years. That means I'm necessarily taking my responsibility for what's happened, and I'm also taking the criticism very seriously. I had a need to say that initially. I've been in the whole process. So let me go back in time -- I was actually assigned to do it -- to say something about what happened, and something about the need for upgrading the Prince's Gate 26 and a new entrance tunnel. After 22 July 2011, securing the Stortinget, the National Assembly of the country, and the big city building were very central – we can only go back to the mood that was in that period, that is, the fall of 2011 to the spring of 2012. A number of physical security measures were put in place in and around Stortinget, as many probably remember. The representatives who had offices on Akersgata were saved every time there was a van. We also received some security measures that were absolutely necessary at that time. The construction project is an additional measure. So it could give us a building that could be used much more efficiently than the old Prince's Gate 26, and that was up-to-date with modern construction needs. As I said, I've been sitting in both presidencies, and both have taken the utmost care, based on professional advice from the various professional authorities, including the risk analysis developed for the Stortinget. The Presidency has a special responsibility to ensure that the Stortinge as the arena of democracy and the country's main symbolic buildings are adequately secured. The solutions adopted at both the early and the later stages of the project were found through good cooperation between Stortinget and among others. Oslo Municipality, which was absolutely necessary. It is important that we cooperate with both the municipality and neighbours, whether they are embassies in the neighboring streets or other neighbours. As the national parliament of the country, the size of the population has not been able to dictate solutions without taking into account neither the host municipality nor the neighbours. Good cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo on the work at Wesselsplad has also ensured consideration for urban development and appropriate operation for both parties. Hopefully, the construction project will be completed in January 2018. The interior work will be completed in September to October 2018, so that the move into the Prince's Gate 26 can start early in 2019. It is essential that we now ensure a good completion of the project. Several of the key decisions taken in the project should have been better explored at an early stage. One of the experiences that everyone should take with it from this construction project is that the Stortinge as a builder must have a solid project organisation in place from an early stage of planning that has the resources to ensure the quality of all decisions and calculations on the road. You haven't had it here. The contract basis and the cost estimate were not well enough quality assured. The Presidency was briefed on the exceedances of a Presidency seminar in February 2015. When the challenges that arose in the post-construction period in 2014 became known, a number of actions were implemented, which were ordered by the Presidency, including: intensified monitoring and follow-up of suppliers and new cost analyses. External competence and project management were collected, and the contract basis was examined. It was a difficult situation. There had been serious problems at the construction site, and there were deficiencies in the contract basis that had been developed before construction started. The size was at this point bound by contracts with both the design team and the contractor. I guess it would lead to a very high risk for Storting whether we had stopped the project at this stage or made significant changes to it. In retrospect, one might ask if there had been a better solution, but a complete stop in the project would also lead to a high risk of further cost increases. I have to say I'm sorry that the project got the development it got. In the case of possible future construction projects, the presidency must be, i.e. the forthcoming presidencies, be critical of the premises in a completely different way from what has been the case here – because this was not good enough. We have to draw all sorts of lessons from this. That is why the presidency has now initiated work to improve routines and organisation in the future. We assume that future presidencies follow up on this. It is necessary – yes it is actually absolutely necessary. Neither we nor future presidencies have construction or construction competence. A project organisation is needed, which was not found here. It's important to learn, and it's important to let learning have consequences, that we learn from what has happened. Administrative procedures are important to ensure that the size of the plenary session is adequately informed throughout the process, that this type of project must be anchored in plenary and that it must be continuous. So the current presidency has started work on this to look at better practices and organization in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3353	First of all, I would like to state that when the Riksrevision and the Control Committee refer to the presidency, it concerns two presidencies. The manufacture may seem confusing, especially for outsiders. I would therefore like to begin with a brief summary of the important decisions taken before this presidency was elected. In the spring of 2011, the presidency decided that the Prince's Gate 26 would be the first project in the rehabilitation of Stortinget's buildings. On 18 October 2012, the concept selection was decided for P12, i.e. tearing up the entire interior and building a whole new house within the façade, not just rehabilitating existing buildings. The main reason for this choice was the possibility of a satisfactory and better securing of the building. At the same time, the assumption that P26 would be ready for a new expansion in the autumn of 2017 was added. In January 2013 a new postal and goods destination was decided in the project. In May 2013, the first cost framework for the P26 and the recipient of mail and goods was approved, and the then Presidency asked the administration to initiate the planning of a new entry into the postal and mail office and garage. For the record, this presidency was elected in October 2013. So to the matter: we all asked a crucial question when the Riksaudition was given the task of going through the construction project. How could this project go wrong? What was behind the 700 million? kr that the project budget had increased since the first estimate of costs? The National Audit Office chose to limit this issue because of the legal conflict Stortinget had started to prepare. I take note of that. I believe that the Riksrevision's report gives a good answer to that, even if it is not complete, as the Riksrevision itself writes in the report. I refer you to the Riksrevision's review of how this could happen, a review of the control committee joins. As I said, I agree with the conclusion of the Riksrevision, but refer in particular to point 1 on page 96 of Document 3:12 for 2016–2017, where it says: «The construction project has had a substantial increase in costs which can only be explained in part by the change in character of the project.» Our project group believes it is possible to demonstrate that defects and defects in the contract basis explain approx. two thirds of the cost increase in the contract with the contractor, where most of the cost increases are. Neither as a builder nor as an unforeseen situation in the land exceeds the reserve that has been included in the project. How the responsibility for these defects and deficiencies should ultimately be shared between us and our supplier, it is likely that the courts will decide. This presidency therefore believes that there is reason to continue working towards an action. I would also like to say something about the very difficult situation of the Stortinget in which the builder has come up with as a result of the failure of a central supplier. The biggest thing is neither or can be a professional builder. I, like the rest of the Stortinget, depend on professional assistance to implement such a project. That was how aid Stortinget sought by engaging a large and reputable design company, in the belief that we had got a capable co-player on the team. However, I would like to refer to the fourth section of the Riksrevision – which the Committee of Inquiry also joins as problematic – on page 27 of the vote. In particular, I would like to refer to point 1: ‘The Court of Auditors considers it problematic that the Presidency of the Grand Duchy did not ensure sufficient capacity and competence for the planning and implementation of such a large and complex construction project.’ I would like to point out that this presidency started early in building capacity and competence to meet ever-increasing challenges as builders of what has gradually evolved into great exceedances. No procedure relieves us as a builder of the overall responsibility for the project, but this failure is just as complete as we have had to deal with. The size must act professionally and ensure the rights and benefits required under the contract, as the Supervisory Committee has also highlighted. Since early 2015, the law firm Wikborg Rein has assisted in reviewing the contracts in connection with the delay of the project and as the major shortcomings in the design team’s work have been revealed. This assistance has included the promotion of a large number of concrete claims for the comprehensive default that has been detected along the way. This work led in October last year to the Stortingen going to the unusual step of notifying lawsuits against the design team. It is currently working to clarify the case. This is a time-consuming work, where extensive calculations are necessary as a basis for the requirements, which must be updated as the project progresses. The National Audit Office highlights in its report that when the work is carried out in such a way that the focus is on Storting's handling of the matter, the responsibility can be perceived as more unilaterally located than a broader review could reveal. I agree. The National Audit Office’s report has provided a great deal of lessons to be learned in future projects, so that overshooting can be avoided – as the rapporteur had discussed. I would particularly like to refer to the roles and responsibilities to which the Riksrevision refers on page 100 of the report. This shows that there is little formalized how the presidency should follow up the administration of Storting. It shows that the government of the presidency can be something random. The Presidency's responsibilities are not regulated to the same extent as the Presidency's responsibilities towards parliamentary work. This is evident from the fact that no dossiers were submitted to the Presidency between May 2014 and February 2015. This was nine critical months for the project. I would also like to refer to page 99, on assistance from Staatsbygg, where the Riksrevision writes: ‘The weaknesses of the Storting’s own project organisation indicate after the audit that there should be a basis for involving State Building in the construction project in the past and more actively.’ This is what the committee believes has unfortunately not been done, which I also agree with. Therefore, the Presidency has decided to follow this up for future projects through its decision to set up a working group to recommend changes to relevant legislation and guidelines, etc., in order to ensure a good and effective implementation of the Storting building projects in the future. The recommendation shall be made by the end of 2017. These include three sub-items which are fully consistent with the recommendations of the Riksrevision and which have also been followed up by the Monitoring Committee. These are: a clearer formalisation of roles and responsibilities between the bodies of the Storing legislation to ensure the proper and effective implementation of construction projects in the State is fully applicable also to the Storting assessment of a solution in which State Buildings can serve as support for the Stortinget building on future projects Finally, I would like to stress that this presidency is a collegiate body that has always been united in dealing with a very demanding project. Both the corrective actions taken from 2015 onwards and the legal process against Multiconsult. I would also like to stress that the presidency as a college takes the criticism very seriously. I would also like to point out that in the difficult situation that has arisen, the Grand President has managed the presidency's work on the matter in a thorough and good manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3415	I refer you to the post of the President of the Grand Duchy and the other posts of the presidency. I just want to touch some moments in addition. An important aspect of the Riksaudition audits is to identify and learn from mistakes made. It has been central to the debate. It also underlines the Committee's position and proposes that an evaluation report be drawn up after the construction project for that purpose. That makes sense. Such an evaluation will also identify the problems, delays and shortcomings in the delivery of the project by the design and performing suppliers we have experienced in this project and the impact it has had on cost development. This has not been the subject of the Riksrevision, but it underlines that it is not necessary to understand that there can be no responsibility for the excess costs of the design and performing contractors, an assessment I notice that the control committee shares. The evaluation proposed by the Committee could help us to understand how this could happen – that it went so wrong as the committee chairman expressed it. This, of course, does not change the need of the Storting to address the weaknesses identified by the National Audit Office’s report, from a lack of competence to capacity, procedures, decision-making bases and the treatment of our own budget. The Supervisory Committee itself agrees with the Riksrevision that it should have requested more detailed information before submitting its referral to plenary, as has been the case with several of its members in the debate. In other words, it's learning for all of us in this report. The representative Lundtigen well expressed it so that it is not culture for a very detailed examination of our own budget. I have been in the control committee for four years myself and can confirm that it has been one, we shall call it tradition or at least a routine. Supporting the criticism of the Riksrevision at this point means adding a higher list of details, at least for investment projects, than has been the case at present. I assume that future presidency will follow up. The Presidency, as the President-in-Office said in his statement, has already begun to follow up the critical points of the Riksrevision. The most important thing about the Riksrevision reports is, as several have said, to learn from errors and weaknesses that lead to poor results. I take it as a matter of course that, in the next period, the presidency will continue this work, to the point and the point, also with regard to the points that are now being adopted in the light of the position of the Control Committee. One of the criticisms of the Riksrevision is the lack of sufficient evidence of the need to meet the safety needs of a new self-injection recipient, even though the Riksrevision stresses that it does not point out the safety significance of the measure. These were decisions taken during the intensified attention given to security measures that the 22nd July attack impressed on us. I don't think any of us needed long investigations around the need for increased security around and in Stortinget that time. However, the remark is a reminder that, in retrospect, when the immediate impressions are somewhat falsified and the auditors' eyes are to make a sound decision, it is safest to make sure that both the needs and assessments of possible and impossible alternatives are securely attached to the paper – documentation, documentation, documentation. So, finally, the centre party and the SV place a special responsibility on the staging president. It is true that the prime minister of our state has a special role, our foremost after the King. But it's an expression of the Greatness' position in our state. In the presidency as a college and the responsibility of the Presidency in and for the Storting, the President does not have a similar role. The President's position is not, as the Prime Minister's position in the government, the one who has the last word on a matter. The presidency is a college, where none of us can deny responsibility for agreed decisions, no matter how low or high the number we have in front of the vice-president. In this case, the decisions are unanimous. I think it was the same in the previous presidency. Therefore, I would like to state that what the Central Party and the SV do by appointing the President as particularly responsible is illogical in this matter, as the Left's representative makes use of the position and said in his statement. The first step is to replace a president or a presidency, perhaps the members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee should at least adhere to the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy, namely that one fifth of the representatives submit written requests to the President for a new election of the President of the Grand Duchy or a Vice-President. The Stortinget will then make such a choice – but not by promoting mistrust in the hall. This underlines that it is not natural to transfer the principle of parliamentaryism in the relationship between magnification and government on the relationship between different bodies in the Grand Duchy. Finally, a small remark: when things go wrong, whether they're here, in the private business, or on the football field, the question of how to take responsibility for mistakes that have been made is raised. You can go and leave to others to deal with the difficulties, or you can be, and do what you can to correct weaknesses that have been revealed in the light of the experience that has been reaped. I have a sense both in this and in other matters most recently.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3436	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3441	I first wanted to say that I thought both the staging president and the vice president's posts were very good. I think it is very good that they have looked down on the working group that is already taking on and starting to work and look at how we, as a big group, can be better together. I thought that was very good. I was going to have a little bit of a problem with the procurement code, as the Riksrevision sees as problematic that Storting's administrative lease was not followed by the extension of the design agreement. Here in the report one sees that the presidency and the National Audit Office are almost a few that this was not good. But the Riksrevision says that they see it as clear that the extension of the design agreement led to a breach of procurement law. Some reason why I am so busy with this is that public purchasing and purchasing regulations were the first responsibility I got when I entered the Stortinget. We reinforced that law, we made it even more strict, we made it so strict for the municipalities that they could be appealed to KOFA and be fined if they didn't follow it. And if another government agency doesn't follow it, and it says in a national audit report, we write very sharp comments. So I'm very busy with it, and then it's very embarrassing that we, like big ones, couldn't follow the code that we have created. In that case, it says: ‘The size refers to the findings of the National Audit Office and it is critical that the design agreement was extended in response to tenders in breach of the Law on Public Acquisitions.’ And I have to say that it is really very embarrassing for us, I think we have to decide that we should follow the procurement code. It shouldn't be necessary from us, and I think it must also be an important part that we look at in the future work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3455	The Progress Party will point out that in the review of the National Audit Office’s study on the Prince’s Gate 26 construction project, the new postal and goods reception and entry tunnel, there has been a significant lack of project management, a breach of the procurement rules and excessive budget exceedances. The Progress Party supports the Riksrevision’s main conclusion, such as: points out the need to clarify roles and responsibilities between the bodies in the Grand Duchy in administrative matters. Many point to an unfortunate practice, curfew, which has evolved over several periods in the performance of the administrative tasks of the Presidency which are not the equivalent of those of the Grand Duchy's Rules of Procedure. In this construction project, the Stortinget is formally the builder, and it is the administrative management of the Stortinget that manages the building mass of the Stortinget and has responsibility for the project management. The main task of the Grand Duchy's presidency under Section 7 of the Rules of Procedure is to plan and direct the parliamentary work of the Grand Duchy, to ensure that the constitutional rules are complied with, and to represent the Grand Duchy in official contexts. But the Presidentship of the Storting also governs the activities of the Storting administration by, for example, to decide on different actions and priorities and tasks. The presidency of the Grand Duchy is thus part of the administrative management of the Grand Duchy as it is practiced today. The majority has stressed on several occasions the role of the presidency as an administrative body, but without the right to make political decisions. There is a lack of formal and clear guidelines on how to divide roles and responsibilities between presidency and the administration of the Storting. It is therefore possible to ask questions as to whether the Presidency has the necessary formal decision-making powers in addition to those conferred by the Stortinget by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure or by special decisions on a case-by-case basis. The Court of Auditors report on page 106, first paragraph, last paragraph, points out that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee must take its part in the responsibility for the failure to comply with cost developments or projects at an earlier date. This has been the subject of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. However, the size of the plenary as a builder also has an independent responsibility for not having requested more detailed information on the development, so that decisions could be made more fairly. The Board of Directors shall be responsible for the lack of project management, breaches of the procurement rules and large budget excesses, and the Presidentship of the Stortinge shall be responsible for the administrative management of the Stortinge. This case first of all reveals a practice that must cease immediately, and it is good to hear that the president has expressed that they are doing this work well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3474	Firstly, I would like to say that I am pleased with what has come from unreserved statements from the presidency, especially the first post. But then there are several relationships that we might have to return to. I want to draw attention to the letter that has also been referred to before today, from the presidency of yesterday's date. It contains three points, it is revised cost analysis, which states that there is no reason to believe that the revised cost analysis will indicate the need for a cost framework beyond the 1.8 billion. kr which is now being worked for. Then I would like to recommend the national audit report on pages 80 and 81, which says just now that a statement has been made for February 2017 that, if you add those figures, you will already be over 1.8 billion. kr. It says 1.838. You might say there's a detail in these billion times, but then when you say so strongly you have no reason to believe that you're going to exceed the limit of 1.8 billion. I would therefore recommend the Riksaudition report for further reading. I would also like to comment a little on this work group which is going to take place, that the problem is not a lack of rules, the problem is to apply the rules that otherwise exist in the country, and then follow these. I also come back for a moment to the letter addressed to the parliamentary leaders, which says that the following will have close dialogue with the parliamentary leaders. I have no objection to the parliamentary leaders, but it is stated in the national audit report that it cannot replace information in plenary session with a liberating effect. And I ask myself, why is it so difficult to relate to the Grand Duchy plenary? And it's a little bit of the same pattern that we recognize from the previous case we had in the winter, about the EOS legislation, where it was supposed to be so imperative to steer away from a serious message from our transparency and supervisory body with the secret services, that everything was done to keep it as low as possible under the radar. Then I will address the latter, which in and of itself has not been a point so far, but which has been a problem during the committee's work, and that is the presidency's relation to public opinion. We must not have it so that the presidency can keep secret or deny other committees the transparency of information they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3487	I would like to say that, on behalf of the Committee, the Presidency in general and the President in particular have now, in my view, met the conditions on which the Committee made provision for further progress. I believe that it has been emphatically confirmed that the Riksrevision report, the Committee's suspension and the fact of the matter are being taken seriously, and that the presidency has taken collective responsibility. I would say that is very good, but of course also necessary in order for us in this room to say that the confidence and authority of the Stortinge people can be maintained. It also means that later this evening the Stortinge may adopt the decisions proposed by the Committee on Control and Constitution, with these assurances, which we have now heard, in the light of these decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3492	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3508	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3517	I want to start this article by saying that I believe this is a brand day for the Stortinget, because tonight, as the vote is held, a majority will decide to set up a so-called investigation commission, or a commission, which will investigate the research policy and the injustice that may have been committed against the Sami and female/Norwegian people in Norway. The proposal to set up an investigation commission has received broad support. At its hearing on 15 May 29 organisations and individuals participated, all except the Norwegian-Finnish Federation supported the proposal. The Committee has also received written submissions supporting the establishment of the Commission. The assembly plenary also adopted this on 29 May this year, with 37 out of 39 votes. The Municipal and Management Committee has held a hearing and the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the SV join the majority of the Control and Constitution Committee, while the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party join the Right and the Progress Party's views on the Control and Constitution Committee, which oppose the establishment of such a committee. I'm assuming it's being explained by the minority. The starting point of the draft representative is the gathering of indigenous peoples in Norway, their relationship with the Norwegian authorities in the past and the impact history of the policy. However, the proposal also covers women, who have been a national minority in Norway since 1999. In 2005, the government recognised women as a language in Norway. In the research policy, collectives and women/Norwegian finders shared a common destiny. The vast majority of the decisions and instructions from the mid-1900s to the midwar period were common to the parties and women, because they were perceived as border minorities which could pose a threat to the construction of the young Norwegian national state in the border regions. Women have never received a public apology or a complaint from the Norwegian authorities. The majority of the Committee, all except the Right and the Advance Party, believe that the main objective of establishing a Commission must be to establish a common understanding of history. The Commission should also discuss whether the research policy had the same justification for both groups, partners and women, although the content of the policy was the same. It is also important to identify the attitudes taken by research policy to create within the minority society and among the communities and women. This part of the work should also cover today's society. The hearing also revealed a need that many Samaritans and women have to be able to tell their story and be listened to. There is a lot of knowledge about research policy, but much of this knowledge is little known. In the view of the majority, a Commission will change this and contribute to increased knowledge of the majority population. By establishing a Commission, the large community will become more familiar with the research policy. Not least, increased knowledge will make a good contribution to countering similar injustices in the future. The majority of the Committee also considers that a thorough investigation will give authority to further follow-up actions. The majority of the Committee agrees that the Storting should set up a Commission in order to highlight this difficult field. However, we believe that it is necessary to discuss the designation of such a Commission, based on the main objective of providing the Commission with a summary description of the reasons for the search and the concrete actions taken in this respect. The work needs to outline the structure in order to create greater equivalency in relation to the majority culture. The majority indicate that there is a significant economic backlog in e.g.. access to Sami learning materials, lessons in and in Sami at primary school and bets in lule and southern Sami languages. It imposes a responsibility on Stortinget to finance various actions in a satisfactory way, on the basis of Norway’s current commitments. A common understanding of a difficult past will be a very important contribution to reconciliation and justice. The majority believe that the term ‘justice Commission’ can be a more comprehensive name for a Commission, by adding a solid, knowledge-based and unified foundation for our life together. This is primarily a decision of principle. It is proposed that the next presidency should present a proposal for a mandate, composition and name of the Committee for the next enlargement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3538	I'm just going to give a brief explanation of vote: that right after careful consideration does not go into support of this proposal, has its main reason for us to feel during the hearing that there were very many different expectations of what that Commission should be, what function it should have, and what problems it might have to solve. There were some who wanted such a commission to provide historical evidence in academic sense. Some people said that parts of the Sami population needed to tell their story. Others indicated that they would have a museum where the population could learn about the policies that were pursued. We have also recorded that there have been shared views among the Sami population on this issue. Some have suggested that such a Commission would put the Sami population in a completely unnecessary victim role. At the same time, we are living well with the majority who are in the Chamber here today, and we will be constructively dealing with the process further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3545	I refer you to the representative proposal from Kirsti Bergstø and Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, which calls for the establishment of a Truth Commission to look at the research policy and the injustice committed against the Sami and female peoples in Norway. At the open hearing held in this context, the Committee was also supported by the majority of those invited. The Progress Party considers it not natural to set up investigation commissions when it wishes to obtain historical evidence on the research policy pursued and its consequences. Examination commissions should be reserved for situations where liability may be involved. As it emerged during the hearing, what happened, hardly any violation of human rights or international law, all the time this took place before Norway acceded to these conventions. The Progress Party also points out that from the 1980s until today a major effort has been made to build Sami institutions and to legislate on Sami rights to language, education and land. The Progress Party suggests that today there is a lot of research-based knowledge about Sami and female history and about indigenous and minority history. The Progress Party considers it more natural that any new investigations into research policy should be carried out by historians who can review what has happened and what consequences this has had. In that case, this should be done by others other than the Storting. The Progress Party shall not support the proposal of the representative or the proposal of the majority of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3558	There is a lot of research-based knowledge about Sami and female history. We have some knowledge of the indigenous and minority history in Norway. Ideological attitudes, refractions and government policies towards the public groups have been relatively in-depth studied. Although a lot has been done and a large amount of material is available, proposers stress the lack of published material on efficacy, i.e. the impact of government policy in the short and longer term. The Christian People's Party shares this consideration. On the basis of the proposal, the idea is that it is an important task to clarify historical events and structures that have negatively affected co-operatives and women, both from a historical and a contemporary perspective. Such clarification has been required both from the female and Sami teams and from the Sametinget. It is worth noting that the proposal was also widely supported during the Committee's hearing on the matter. The proposers stress that adequate reconciliation can be difficult to achieve before the truth is established and documented as far as possible. Authorities and the public must take on board what has happened and the consequences that past policies have had for generations to come. However, it can be argued that no information has been obtained that would require the use of the investigating institute in this case now. King Harald complained in 1997 about the treatment of cohabitants, and there has been compensation for cohabitants who did not receive sufficient education. The unification has been established and the Sámi culture and language have been protected by the Constitution. In this respect, it can be argued that the majority society has developed an understanding of the minority society and that, if the work is not properly rigged and has a well-thought-out mandate, a Commission may rather help maintain and, in the worst case, strengthen a division between the majority and the minority population. But many Sami organisations support the call for a commission, and the Christian People's Party emphasises that a whole 28 out of 29 hearing bodies have supported the proposal. Moreover, it is important for the Christian People's Party that the next Sami and female generations should be able to live with pride in view of who they are, and with pride in the culture they come from and represent today. It is an obligation and a historical responsibility for Norway to ensure that it is possible. It is not unnatural that it is the national parliament of the country that takes up the task of establishing that type of commission. The size is responsible on behalf of Norway. It is natural for the Stortinget to take the initiative of such a Commission, also in the light of Article 19 of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure, where it states: ‘The size may reduce a review commission to clarify or assess an actual course of events in the past.’ Proposals for decisions do not use the term ‘truth Commission’. However, the Presidency is asked to draw up draft terms of reference, name and composition. The Christian People's Party is fully behind this. A thorough effort must be made to establish a Commission which may function as intended. Otherwise, I refer to the leaders who are in the position and who are behind the Christian People's Party. I refer you to the rapporteur's good report.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3574	I would first like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Bergstø and Mr Knag Fylkesnes, for the document they have presented. It is – as the rapporteur said in a good way – an important matter. It is an important matter to get on with what I would like to call the work of the co-workers and women experiencing a temperament in everyday life in Norway. An open consultation was held on the draft representative on 15 May 2017. All – with the exception of the Federal Head of the Norwegian-Finnish-Federal Association – recommended that a set up a Commission. I want to thank the participants for sharing their stories and informing the committee in a good way. It is essential in such a work that an attempt is made to gain a common understanding of the situation. It is the basis of any democratic strategy that one has a common understanding of the situation in question. I would like to emphasise this from the majority of the Committee – all except the Right and the Advance Party – as a main objective of setting up the Commission. Furthermore, it is an important objective in the creation of a Commission that the need of many co-workers and women to be able to tell their history and – I would stress – be listened to, to present their story of what the seas and their previous generations have experienced is essential to move on. It is also important that a parliamentary commission be set up, because it can give authority to follow-up action. A downgraded Commission will provide an authority necessary to look ahead. It is essential that a person then looks at language and education issues, access to Sami learning materials, funding of primary and basic school lessons in Sami, bets in lulesamic and southern Sami languages and similar support to the women’s organisations, which, for example, have been well presented, but which should be provided with additional funds in three tribes’ meetings, with the premises and institutions they have in Børselv in Finnmark. With regard to the name of such a Commission, there are several names. The name Truth Commission I want to be a little careful with, because that's a very big and demanding word. Other good names may be the Reconciliation Commission or – as mentioned in the setting – the Justice Commission. But in this Commission, with the people who are going to sit there and in the mandate that is being defined, it is important that one has an eye to look ahead — to bring forward, as I said, the homonymousness of people, to develop business, to find that all culture has been cultivated, to have increased social and economic respect for the work of co-workers and women, which in many cases are mass employment, with income from different types of work, which in sum provides the necessary basis for income. At all, one must respect the traditions that exist here, see the matter so that one combines roots and wings, combines anchoring and innovation, thus providing a basis for new generations – that one can combine his traditions and his culture with living a full life in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3595	I would also like to start by thanking the proposers for presenting an important proposal. Whether it's a truth commission, a justice commission or what you have to find as the right term, is not important for the left. What's important is that we now have a decision in Stortingen to set up a commission. It is important to establish such a Truth Commission – if we call it that – is something quite different than starting a eaten research programme. The fact that the Storting does so gives recognition to those groups that have been subjected to the research process, cohabitants and women, but also a recognition of the injustice committed over such a long period of time against two people in Norway. And it is important that with this Commission we are able to develop a kind of common understanding of history and its importance, but also an understanding of the attitudes behind it, the nationalism behind it, the racism that has been behind it, and the context in which the policy has been implemented. This is a dark part of, a dark chapter in, Norwegian history that has its roots all the way back to the late 1700s and early 1800s, but found a much stronger form from the 1850s and beyond. It has been in various stages, and it was really only concluded with the Joint Court Committee in the 1980s and the establishment of the Sameting in 1989 – and also the important excuse from King Harald to the Sameting in the late 1990s. I think it is important in this work that we also try to find out how research has affected men and women like people, their language and culture, and how it has affected – and continues to affect – individuals. There are still many who have grown up with a strong research policy, of course in their family, but also as individuals, and how it affects still today. Then it's important in this too to develop the resistance that research policy has led to, and the reaction to, that of cohabitants and women. Throughout history, there have been many human rights champions among partners and women against research policy, and it is important that we recognise these people and their organisations as well. Then it's absolutely right to make this decision this year, when we show that it's been 100 years since Elsa Laula Renberg assembled the first Sami national meeting in Trondheim, in 1917, and also her significance. I am very pleased that this proposal has been presented, and that it has such broad support. It is the beginning of an important work, which could affect, and which must be part of a historical both uprising and, hopefully, reconciliation, which we need – a policy that the Norwegian State really needs to recognise the significance, impact and consequences of. It's an important decision The Storting now understands.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3612	Lihkku? Bee-wine! Onnee päivele! Congratulations on the day. This is a historical flash in many ways. I want to thank the Committee for an excellent piece of work, and in particular the case-speaker, who has run this process through in a very wise and tidy way, but actually the whole plurality for not having to give up an inch on the question. They immediately saw that this was an important step for the state of Norway. Behind the desire for a truth commission are many years of activism, many people and movements, and finally we can crown this work with saying. The starting point for more recent times is that the Sameting took the initiative. That initiative was rejected by the government. We're not going to get too deep into the grounds of rejection, which is a little bit different than what was explained here earlier. From the government's side, there was a foundation that might not tolerate the day's light on a day like this. The proposal from the Sametinget on a truth committee for research, like Kirsti Bergstø and I have spoken on the Stortinget, has already started a very important debate. He has had a high temperature in the Sami and female environments. Fortunately, the debate has not become a debate for or against the same and women. On the other hand, there has been a nuanced discussion in which a new perspective emerges daily. I think everyone who followed the call that the committee held, and there were many, got a sense that the Truth Commission process already started there. It was a very special experience. I know a lot of people who sat and followed on the whole ring from morning to evening on the web. The basis for a truth commission is precisely the need to raise what has happened, as the king did with the apology. But the king's excuse was just the beginning. In order for wound to grow, we need to systematically understand, document research and its consequences today, and use it to look forward to it. That's what a truth commission should be. In addition, women's society has never had an excuse for the treatment they were subjected to from the big community of research, which in itself is an important point. More people think that the excuse from the king and the establishment of the Sameting was enough – that we can now put our research behind us and move on. Others, once again, believe that the Truth Commission, inspired by commissions in South Africa and Panama, is too drastic. Rather, they think more sobering measures should be taken, as more research. We in SV are disunity in both positions. Firstly, neither excuses nor the establishment of institutions are given with the past. There are actions, but there is no history. Bringing out what actually happened, and what consequences it has had, is a statement. Sorrys don't get the stories and the consequences and form a very strange basis for looking forward. Secondly, the scope and level of abuse is not what determines whether or not to establish a Truth Commission. What determines is that Norway, as a state, has carried out systematic research of indigenous peoples and minorities, from which we still see the consequences, as part of our deep culture — the deep culture of the North, the Samar and the Women. We just see it in everyday life. Research can contribute a lot, but in meeting with this, it is a very small contribution. I would also like to say that, as we stand in the National Assembly today, there is a third decisive argument that has not emerged in this debate. Norway, as a civilised nation, should always say wrongs that we ourselves have committed. Norway, unfortunately, is a country that has previously cost dust under the carpet and hopes that things have been forgotten. We have to put an end to that. We have to learn from our own mistakes, the same how heavy and burdensome it is. This is a deep question for the state of Norway and the very test of whether politicians are wise and aware to make the important choices. I will praise those who have understood it, and then I see with wonder at the Right and the Advance Party, as here I do not support this. I believe a Truth Commission, or the Justice Commission, which it might also be called, will be able to heal wounds in the Sami and the female community, but also in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3631	The research policy was brutal and is a dark chapter in our history. There are many individuals who live with the consequences, and so do we as societies. I agree that we need more knowledge and transparency about the research policy that was conducted towards co-workers and women, and about the consequences of the policy. We have had a constructive dialogue with the Sameting on several occasions on these issues. But we've asked questions about a commission is the best solution. In my letter to Stortinget, I have pointed out that research programmes can be a more appropriate tool for the acquisition of knowledge. Of course, I take note of the majority's decision and join the representative Skutle's wish for a good dialogue on the further arrangement of the Commission's work. It is also important that the creation of a Commission does not lead us into a waiting-and-see attitude or waiting-and-see phase while the work is in progress. I think it is important that we have to ensure political follow-up to the Joint Court Committee II and the Heart Language at the same time, which the government is doing well. It is also important that the mandate and tasks of the Commission are feasible. A possible theme for the Commission may be what happened at boarding schools. The mandate, name and composition of the Commission must also be established in consultation and good dialogue with the Sametinget and women’s/Norwegian Finnish organisations. Many measures to strengthen Sami culture, languages and social life have been implemented. The Joint Committee’s investigations eventually led to the establishment of the Sameting, the Law of Cooperation and its own Constitutional Law. The establishment of the Same People's Fund in 2000 was intended as a collective compensation for the damage and the wrongful search policy has inflicted on the Sami people. We have also received the Finnish Law and our own procedures for consultation between the Sameting and State authorities, and we have measures to help revitalise Sami language and culture. As regards women and Norwegian Finns as a national minority, we have received financial support schemes for their organisations and support for measures to revitalise language and culture. It is important that this work continues and strengthens. One of the objectives of the policy has been and is to correct some of the negative effects of the research policy. Through the work of the Stortinget today, we can gain more knowledge and more transparency about the dark chapter in Norwegian history.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3655	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3660	The Council of State says in its statement that it would be more appropriate for research projects in the field of research and the impact of research, but I have not recorded that the government has at any time initiated the kind of research projects or allocated funds to bring about more knowledge of the field and the field. The Council of State nevertheless praised the initiative – I believe – and also the decision we are making today. This must mean that the Council of State sees the need for more in-depth care and treatment of the field. What does the Council of State think about the Commission's work to be started now, and about the lack of knowledge we have in the field in Norway today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3667	I explained in my post that there is a need for more knowledge. There is a need for more transparency. I pointed specifically to the situation at boarding schools as one area that could be suitable for looking at such a commission. It could also be suitable for a research project. It has been important for the government to address the concrete challenges in the field of cohesion policy. That is why we took the report from the SPC II back from the drawer and have come a long way in the consultation with the SIC on how to implement important measures, such as consultation also at local and regional level, the desire of the SIC to bring together the transfers to the SIC under one post and, not least, the important work on the heart language to strengthen the SIC. One important point for me is that we are not now going into a waiting-and-see phase because we are going to have a lot of Commission work, but that, in parallel with the knowledge acquisition and the work of the Commission, we can continue the important work in the field of cohesion policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3676	I think it's particularly important to address the challenges of cutting the Sameting budgets. Nor do I think that not having consultations in areas where Sameting had expected it is good practice in the field. I still think it is positive that the Council of State is so clear on the need for more knowledge, both for the nation as a whole and not least for Sami and female communities. Then I have to ask if the Council of State has gone beyond the understanding and logic of the note that came from the Ministry, and whether it is such that the Council of State has seen that it was not so wise to leave to the Sameting to document the effects of the research and the great society's attack on the Sami people, but that it is actually a common responsibility – which we are proud to be able to bear in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3683	The representative knows very well that no government council is commenting on internal notes. I think we should rather focus today on what we agree on, namely the importance of more knowledge and greater transparency and that measures are being implemented in line with those I have outlined in my articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3688	It's good to hear that the joy is great, and that it's something we're going to highlight together, because it's a historic day in the Great Britain today. I just want to make sure that the Council of State, if he is the Council of State in his post even after the elections – without feeling anything but a wish for good choice – sees the seriousness and importance of having a good framework for the work to be done, that there is a work where both mandate, mission and composition must be anchored in the Sameeting and in the Norwegian Women's Association, that it is a work in which the work is of a decisive nature, that it is anchored in the environments in question and in which the effects of research policy must be documented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3695	At this point, the representative is obvious and I agree. I underlined in my contribution the importance of carrying out consultations and good dialogue, both with the Sameting and with the women's organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3700	Of course, I fully agree that we need more knowledge and more research, both on the wrong that has been committed and on the history that has gone away, also in Norway, where there is no knowledge of the Sami influence and the presence that has been before, including in the case of women as a minority. One thing is to acquire knowledge, but with regard to the research policy and to the fact that the Storting is setting up a Truth Commission – if we call it so far – it is about recognising that the whole starting point for research policy comes from this room. The decision has been taken in respect of the infringement. My question will then be: does the Council of State not see that it is right of the Storting to set down a Truth Commission, wide-ranging and in cooperation with women's organisations and the Sameting, just to illuminate that situation and set a point for research?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3707	Hopefully, we have set a point for research policy. Many measures have been taken to facilitate Sami culture, Sami languages and Sami social life. The government, in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, has also undertaken and strengthened new measures. Then I also record that there are different views, obviously, among the majority on what the Commission should be called, but I assume that the new presidency will find a good form on this, and have a good dialogue both with the party groups here on the Grand Duchy and with the Sami and the female environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3714	I think it's good tacts from the Council of State. I would have hoped that it would be the setting that the Council of State had, which is cautiously positive to what is now becoming the plural decision, to establish such a commission. This is a commission set down by the Storting, so the government has formally no specific role in this work, so it is important that the Council of State engages in this matter and participates in this matter. Whether or not there is a point for research policy is a question of different modifications, for the consequences of which we still see today. That's what the Truth Commission is about to deal with. The Truth Commission will not be sufficient, the only big answer. There will also be other measures that are important and that the Council of State has raised in its articles, including: research. Will it now, after what the Council of State has said, be the initiative of the Council of State for research in the field?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3721	I underlined in my speech that many individuals, and also we as a society, live with the consequences of research policy. There is no doubt about it, and that is also the background for many of the measures to which there has been broad political support and to which we have strengthened during this four-year period. This concerns the heart language, which is important for strengthening Sami languages, and it is also the follow-up to the settings of the SPC II, which have been in the drawer for too long. It is important that we obtain consultation arrangements also for the municipal and regional levels. Then I also agree that there is a need for more research in this area, and now in the years to come, we need to strike a good balance between the work the Stortinge is taking on, and the work it is natural for the government to strengthen in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3729	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3734	It's nice that it's this historic case that's going to be my last from this pulpit. I have grown up in an environment where Norwegian, Finnish and Sami were part of the everyday life – Sami between Sami, Finnish and Finnish immigrants and Norwegian between us. For us children at home was the Finnish adult language that was used when we were not supposed to understand what they were talking about. As we grew up, there were less and less items of both Sami and Finnish in our everyday lives. We children should not learn Finnish and not at all Sami at school – that's just the way it was. Today many understand that you have missed an incredible amount when you can't speak or understand what my father spoke: Finnish. The same thing applies to Sami. Most of us who were young in the 1960s in Alta cannot speak or understand Sami – a great paradox when we know that there is a language that a large proportion of our inhabitants speak. We should not learn that, but we should learn English. I thank you for that, but today I wish that both Finnish and Sami had been on the agenda for our school days. We could say that we were kind of researched, but to a completely different degree than the Sami and female population. There is no doubt that for several generations both Samer, Women and Norwegian Finns in Norway have been exposed to an active and hard research policy, the aim of which was to assimilate them and other national minorities into Norwegian. It is obvious that research policy had a number of negative consequences for the relationship between the peoples of Norway, not least for the many who knew it on their bodies in their everyday lives, as was evident during the hearing. But it is also a great loss for Norway's language and cultural heritage. We know that there is a lot of knowledge available about research policy. However, it is a challenge that much of this knowledge is known only to a few. Knowledge is less well-known among the majority of people in the big community, and there is therefore a need to make this knowledge better known – not to repeat all ‘errors from yesterday’. For that reason, I believe that setting up a Commission will lead to a greater awareness of the public interest in the policy of research and how devastating it has been to many who have experienced abuses and injustices. Increased knowledge would be a good contribution to counteract similar events in the future. And if I'm allowed: since this is my last performance on this pulpit, I want to take the opportunity to thank myself for eight years. I have met 168 great colleagues from all parties – and also a good presidency. And not least, I would like to thank all the employees of this house, who have contributed to making our everyday life much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3747	Thank you for your effort!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3752	It's a brand day. The decision shall be taken to set up a Commission to investigate and document the research policy and the injustices committed against the women and the Sami people. I would like to thank all those who came to hear and told their stories – strong stories that touched something in everyone who listened. I want to site Inga Karlsen from Sametinget's senior council, when she said: ‘I did not know that I was inferior and not the right child of our common mother soil, until some tourists spit in my face and called me ‘physical patchy young’. Every now and then my childhood's happy self-esteem began to crack, Reason tried to forget this and other ugly episodes, but the body does not forget. As a child, I also witnessed that our dear mother was put to the wall and killed because she was the same and for her God's faith." There were strong stories, and we also have her from the women's union who told us about children from the internatial sphere who were subjected to election because they spoke Sami or female. 49 pst. given by Sami women to be subjected to physical, mental and sexual authority. It's a significantly higher proportion than the majority population in Norway. There were many stories, and if I was in doubt about the proposal before the hearing, I was at least scrambled afterwards that here we were going to go in for the decision. It is not a human rights duty to create a commission, but it is important to know, because to the extent that injustice is not documented, it must be done. Even the Sámi Church Council has said that they support the proposal, and they have not only acknowledged that the Church participated in the search, but they also have a duty to help ensure that the injustice does not continue, based on the recognition that reconciliation takes time. In this context, some people use an argument that suggests that the notes can be isolated from history, for example. by claiming that together and the women now have to think forwards instead of backwards. The question of an investigative commission is not symbolism but is about establishing new knowledge, which makes it possible to understand today's society in Norway. That is what the Committee wants. They think the main objective of creating a commission is just to establish a common understanding of history.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3768	I would like to thank the rapporteur very much, who has handled this matter very wisely, and who has facilitated a process I think many have experienced involved themselves in. A man who carries only his own history will always be poorer than a man who carries the past in the backpack, the community of the heart and the future in view. That wisdom is to be gathered today and given to our nation and to our future generations, through a better knowledge of our own close history. It is clear that for the big community and for all who grow up in our country today, it is crucial, but for them – the people who bear the consequences of the research and injustice that have been inflicted on them, in their everyday lives – it is absolutely crucial. And when the youth during the hearing expressed so well that a clear relationship with his past is crucial to the belief in his future, and the council of elders said how important it is to establish the status of the wrong that has been committed, it becomes clear that there is a historic moment in the Storing today. The purpose of the proposal is not to blame, but to seek truth. It is essential that we have evidence of the consequences of research policy at both social and individual level, and that we get a comprehensive evidence of the injustice committed against the Sami people and the women's people. Many have asked whether we need a truth commission, and whether we need to touch the evil. To that I would say that silence can often be the heaviest speech. It's silence that lies in the non-inferiority of language. It's silence that's in shame. There is silence in the fact that Sami or female tracks in the community have been tried rocketing over. Although in many places there has been a pride around the Sami and a dawning withdrawal of language in the last decades, silence still puts a lid on the communities in many places, on the perception of itself and on language, culture and business. It is important to get rid of the lure of silence that lies there. Sometimes it's necessary to look back in order to look forward with a wiser look. That is why I am pleased with the historic decision we are going to make today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3783	I have no intention of prolonging the debate, but there is no doubt that our history is unique in terms of overstepping over a long, long period of time. If we're talking about 200 years ago, 150 years ago, 100 years ago, or more recently during the Workers' Party, there's no doubt that it's been overstepping. It's been all along. The question today is whether history is well documented or whether we need more evidence of overtramp for a long time. Then it's a little important in fact to listen to the perhaps the most recognized merger president ever, Ole Henrik Magga. He claims that a Truth Commission is superfluous, and that history is more than well documented. What we should perhaps be much more concerned about is the actual situation of the Sami language today. With the regime we have today in the Samet, it is a fact that fewer and fewer people speak and control Sami. It's perhaps a far bigger challenge for us than once again to dive into history, where there's a great risk that we can stigmatize ourselves once again in Finnmark, by once again putting the Samers and women's interests up against each other. I'm afraid so. I hope it won't happen, but I have a fear of it, because you know that when things are about ethnicity, conflicts can be eaten very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3792	It is clear that there are people who repeatedly take responsibility for feeding the debate when it comes to Sami issues and ethnicity, and that is precisely the Party of Advancement. It is just the party Progress Party that repeatedly makes claims that Sami special rights are widespread, that are capable of using the voice of shouts in questions that should be taken with low shoulders, and that are involved in having really sharp edges in a debate that touches on who people are, and what our society should look like. And it's typical of the Progress Party to cultivate artificial contradictions, because it's not that the threat to Sami communities, to a thriving language, to a rich economic development and to living Sami settlements are some years of Commission work. I would rather point to the threat posed by the impact and consequences of 150 years of research policy. Then I'd rather raise the wrong that's been committed, the shame that's been inflicted, and the effect that we see as people suddenly discover that their grandparents are all together, but no one has dared to say anything about what it's doing to people to know that you're lost and displaced. That's what this is about. It's not just having a few years of research or summing up what's already documented. It's about a laborious work of reconciliation, for a truth, that we should go more wisely together than what has been done in the past. Then the very sharp tone of joint political debates shows the need for us to be on a common platform of knowledge and situation descriptions, because then I don't think the tone would be so loud. I don't think the language would be so sharp, and I don't think that Sami demands would be possible to dispel as harsh voices, whether we were in a common understanding of the wrong that has been committed, of the consequences of the research policy, and had it with us in the debate to be held about a Sami future and the policy for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3801	I think it is a little strange that SV and the representative Bergstø choose to attack the Progress Party. The party of progress was not even formed when the attacks on the Sami population took place. Of course, there have been some abuses since 1976, but the large number of assaults occurred long before that time. Then there was no progress party, so you'll find someone other than the Progress Party to blame in this context. I'm asking for it, because history is undeniable in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3806	Some things just can't get undisclosed. The party of progress is certainly the only party here that has not recognised together as indigenous people – the only party here. In this Chamber there are also representatives from the Progress Party who want to put the Sameting down. The party of progress is the party of division, for contradictions, to establish "us" and "they", and "they" should be a little weak groups of which one can create dagger noise legends. It's the Progress Party. Of course, they had to speak in a case like this, which is about the opposite of the Progress Party. This case is about deep questions for the state of Norway – how to move on, how to create reconciliation, how to get the truth out. Of course, it is contrary to the whole foundation of the Progress Party. It's okay. But don't come here and say that the Progress Party doesn't have a role in this issue. It's been a party that's been shoving on these contradictions since it was established.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3813	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3829	The President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3838	Thank you to the committee. I am pleased that an overall committee supports the views of the proposers that the housing market should be characterised by transparent conditions. The purchase and sale of a dwelling is one of the largest and rarest things we do. We're happy amateurs in a hard market. It is therefore important to wear consumer glasses. The proposal was promoted late in the period, which unfortunately did not allow time for consultation. Therefore, it is good that the timing is essentially about evaluating the various proposals, so that we have both time for dialogue with all the sectors involved in the chain and can bring together the threads of the various work already started by the government. I want to comment on some of the proposals. In the case of residential insurance schemes, it may be appropriate to consider a solution such as: inspired by the Danish household supervision system, although there are also challenges with this. We also remind you that Eiendom Norway has taken the initiative of a working group composed of housing organisations and government bodies, such as to review the Danish model. An investigation by the government in this field may bring together the different experiences and could provide a good basis for the arrangement of future insurance schemes. In the case of proposals to ensure that the requirement of materiality in the case of complaints is designed in such a way that a high price does not automatically impair the ability of the purchasers to lodge claims, the Right Party and the Advance Party point out that there is no automatic stoppage in the purchase price of the purchasers’ access to the complaint. However, there is nothing in the way of emphasising this in order to eliminate any doubts and simplify the means of redress for consumers. With regard to the proposal to influence the use of joint standardised state reports, we see that the industry has significantly increased their use, but it may be appropriate to do something about this work. The use of the state report is important in order to provide safer housing turnover and mitigate the potential for conflict. The government is also following up the proposal of NOU 2009: 6, among others. to increase the use of state reports. The proposal to reintroduce the right to have a market assessment carried out by the appraiser means that I have to remind you that the sum of the sales is affected by a number of factors in addition to the technical condition of the dwelling. I again point out that the government is following the NOU 2009: 6, which will also assess the role of the broker and the valuer. The proposal therefore seems a little redundant, also because it is now free for those who want to use the appraiser. However, we recognise the intention of the proposal and support it. When it is proposed to provide housing buyers with more time in the trading of dwellings by means of the regulations of the real estate law or the law of disposal, the majority of the committee indicates that the Ministry of Finance has notified the establishment of a legislative committee to revise the law on real estate brokerage. We should wait for the revision before making the changes. We therefore believe that this proposal must be seen in the context of ongoing work in this area, and that is the basis for our support. The observant reader who dives into the comments, that is to say, we are problematicating some of the proposals. But to be quite clear, the Right Party and the Advance Party go into all six proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3859	Buying housing is a big and important investment for most of us, an investment that most people have to borrow a lot to realize. Fortunately, many can obtain owner-occupied housing, but it is also an area that is subject to many challenges for both the buyer and the seller. Neither the seller nor the purchaser is as safe as they might think, when they buy or, if necessary, sell the dwelling. The Consumer Council reports that about 40 pst. the housing buyers discover defects or defects after the acquisition they were not familiar with during the purchase and every five housing sales end in conflict. This situation is a germ of anxiety and concern among both parties. Most of us have heard stories about housing transfers where one was sitting at high cost because defects were not communicated correctly or understood correctly. In total, the buyer and seller are amateurs in many ways. This contributes to making the purchase of housing more unsafe than it should be. The industry itself has taken good initiatives to increase security, and several actors believe that it is possible to improve the way in which this is done, with as far as simple action is concerned. The majority asked the government in 2015 to consider measures that would help secure residential transactions for both the buyer and the seller, and return to Stortinget. The government hasn't. With that in mind, I am pleased that a total increase is behind proposals that include insurance schemes, complaints, state reports, authorisation scheme, market assessment and time when buying a dwelling. In total, these proposals will make house sales and purchases safer than they are today. The working party wants the level of conflict to decrease and housing transactions to be safer for consumers. We believe that it is high time to get started. The government must now follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3874	A few weeks ago, we invited the Consumer Council here to the Stortinget and, together with them, also several housing buyers who had been very unhappy with what for most people is the biggest and most important purchase you make in your life, namely the home. We listened to those stories. Many called themselves unfortunate home buyers, who had experienced major problems in retrospect. It is clear that these stories show us the need to strengthen the legislation of residential buyers. That is why the Christian People's Party is very pleased that we now seem to have a full impact on this representative proposal, which was promoted by Hans Olav Syversen, Line Henriette Hemdal, Hans Fredrik Gruvan, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, on measures to strengthen consumers' rights in dealing with housing. According to the Consumer Council, the number of housing disputes is increasing, which we believe is an unfortunate development, both for those affected, and for the industry as such. These proposals will help to reduce the risk to purchasers through improved insurance schemes, information and assessment periods. In the face of growing uncertainty in the housing market, it is more important than ever that housing buyers be able to act safely. We have therefore promoted the proposal for a representative in this matter, and we are also promoting, together with several parties, a loose proposal in the Chamber today, where the Stortinget asks the government to consider removing the seller's right to remedy defects under the disposal law. For this is also a very challenging thing: if you are the buyer of a dwelling and it turns out that the dwelling has significant defects, it is the seller who has the right to correct the defects and defects, with the time perspective that is also in it. This means that a buyer could then have purchased a dwelling, sold his own and stood without a roof over his head, if it is such that one waits for the seller to repair the defects and defects. I believe that this proposal is an important proposal, and that is why we are involved and promoting it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3887	Is it so to understand that there is Confession to present proposal No? 1, or is it Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås who is going to promote it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3892	It's just Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3897	It's okay. Then is the next speaker Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3902	Then I start there the previous speaker relaxed, and promote proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox State report is an important tool for minimising conflict. When a purchaser buys a dwelling, both the buyer and the seller are interested – in order to avoid an ex-post argument – in that there should be no less unknown things about the dwelling. Some might want to hide some shortcomings, make sure that it comes within this 5-6 pst. limit, which very many in the insurance industry operate with and say that you have to get up to that level in order for it to be considered a significant defect, but these will be the villains. To prevent the villains from being villains, and for ordinary people who buy and sell housing to have the best possible knowledge of the housing, it is extremely important to have a state report in place. But to do that, we need incentives that can get brokers and sellers to put this in place. That is why I think the proposals that have been put forward are good, in particular how we can increase the use of the state report. Because if you, for example, makes it possible for brokers to have a greater responsibility if there is a situation with the property that is not well-lit, or if they lower the threshold for what can be considered a significant defect for the seller, if there is a situation that is not adequately illuminated because one has not selected a condition report, there will be strong incentives to ensure that one chooses to use the condition report. The proposal that I have made – on behalf of many crazy people – is the question of the seller’s right to rectify. I want to take a case, time allows: Family buys rowhouses from the previous owner, they discover moulds in the basement, both the buyer and the seller are insured through insurance companies. The first insurance company to the seller says that this is not a significant defect, and whether it is a significant defect – because the next thing they say – the seller will avail himself of his right to repair. The seller's right to repair the mould damage makes it impossible for the purchaser to start repairing it, and they have to stay in the second and third floors with moulds in the bedrooms and in the bathroom, pending clarification of the question of whether there is a significant defect. In this case it did, and it was even blamed inside the picture. However, the matter is that the money comes into the account, but the entire suspension of the work is for almost one year. We should clean this up. It is almost none of the sellers who actually end up repairing the damage, and therefore this should be something the Council of State looks at.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3915	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3920	Buying and selling housing is one of the biggest investments we make here in life. In addition to the fact that disputes in this area may be a personal and related financial uncertainty, it imposes a burden on the judiciary. I therefore agree with the Committee that it is important to ensure a good legal framework for housing trading. In 2015, the government asked the Stortinget to assess measures that contribute to safer residential transactions, including notified work on valuers. In recent times, therefore, the government has started to follow up the investigation from the Tax Law Committee, NOU 2009: 6, State report on the sale of housing. The investigation includes, inter alia: legislative proposals relating to the use of state reports, the authorisation of valuers and the content of the condition reports. The Government aims to promote a legislative proposal during 2018. In this context, it would also be natural to look at the insurance scheme in residential trade. It implies that I, III and IV are already followed up by the Government in its recommendation. With regard to the proposal to amend the disposal law §3-9, so that rising housing prices do not impair the purchaser's ability to make any defects, I join in the comments from the majority of the committee. Under the applicable law, there is no automatic way that the purchase price alone determines the buyer's guarantee options. The law of disposal allows the court to take account of the circumstances of each case. I therefore see no need to propose changes to the disposal law § 3-9 now. As the majority of the Committee points out, there may be shared views as to whether the exit price of a dwelling should be set by the valuer or broker. In any case, I do not consider it appropriate to make specific proposals about the valuer's role in pricing now. It would be natural to consider the role of the valuer in the turnover of dwellings as part of the follow-up to the Examining Committee. The Committee has also discussed the issue of housing buyers, more time should be ensured in residential trade. I agree with the majority of the committee that this is a matter that may need to be regulated in the regulations of the law on real estate and not in the law on disposal. As the majority of the committee points out, I don't think it is appropriate to make specific regulatory changes now. The Ministry of Finance announced earlier this year that they intend to appoint a legislative committee to revise the law on real estate at a later date. It is natural that the notified legislative body should take a closer look at the rules on the time limits for bidding in relation to precisely this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3940	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3945	I am very pleased with the setting and in so far as the Council of State's positive feedback on part of the points. The Council of State itself states — with ministerial care — that there may be a need to look at some aspects of the legislation on the purchase and sale of housing. The challenge is the time perspective. We have a 2009 NOW. Now we're in 2017, and I heard the Council of State say it was expected to promote something in 2018. Then you refer to this with time on sale, that it goes very fast in our days, and that such an important purchase should be regulated by another law or regulation and with a separate legal work related to it. I would like to have the Council of State's assurance that we are now speeding up a job that means so much to so many people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3952	The state and development of the housing market are grounds for considering further measures. I fully support the intentions of the proposers and the intentions of the Committee and will, of course, follow this up. I see this as important for the rights of the housing buyers in the housing market. It may be challenging to face a difficult situation with regard to the purchase of housing. I think most of us have experienced that, among other things. through their circle of acquaintances, that people can get into a difficult situation. So from my point of view, I have absolutely every intention of prioritizing this work. It is important, and it is also in line with government policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3959	I like that insurance. Then it's to the main question itself, the framework for the law on the purchase and sale of housing. My assessment, which of course is a play evaluation based on having heard a lot of stories that make a lot of sense, where the insurance industry is going to go, and how much it stands and falls on who ultimately stands for the right you actually have to. Will the Council of State say that at the moment? is a good legal balance with regard to the relationship between buyer and seller on the property market?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3968	At least I believe that there is reason to look at important parts of the legislation. I think we can all agree that the single statements you've seen, and many of us know, give a picture of a balance that might not be quite where it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3973	So this is a complicated code, and I think there's a lot of good reasons to apply for simplification in the code. I think it will clarify rights between the buyer and the seller and also create greater predictability. Because it's probably something that many people see as challenging, that there's little predictability of how to actually get into a case if you run it before the court.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3976	Do I understand to the Council of State that he is positive that more people are using state reports, and that this could avert conflicts and prevent conflicts? I'm trying to see if he's nodding. Is he nodding? It's a little bit unclear whether he's nodding or not. At least that's the way it is, and I just want to say the following: it's mentioned in the remarks that the ministry is in samples with some organisations. Just know that if there are several assessments of the condition, after all sunmarks there will be less need for insurance. And insurance is today a giant industry in this area, with significant revenues. When you choose who you sit and look at these things with, have it in mind that here, too, there are strong economic interests that don't necessarily have the welfare of consumers in focus, but their own earnings. The question is: will the Government recommend its party group to vote in favour of the SV proposal and the other batches?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3985	In 2012, it was announced by the industry itself that they would enter into a scheme to increase the use of state reports. The Norwegian Taxi Association and the NITO Tariff concluded an agreement in 2013 on the introduction of mandatory state reports on sales through brokers, and the association of real estate agents also concluded. The agreement was to enter into force on 1 January 2015. At that time, the government considered it appropriate to wait for any legislation, pending the industry option. Then it didn't come true. Therefore, I believe that there are good reasons for looking at the scheme. It's about how we set up the state reports, because it can also be said with good reason that you have to approximate and find the right balance of the scale, so that it takes care of both the interests, i.e. both the buyer and the seller, in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3992	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e3999	Unfortunately, the council did not respond to my question, but he has a unique opportunity while I am talking, to assess it. I think it is good that the government parties are involved in all these investigations. Then they have some comments, etc., as the rapporteur explained. But to my question to the Council of State: I saw that he was sitting and nodding a little bit under my post, where I made it clear that the seller has a right to repair that is used to a very small extent, because as a seller, one is interested in going into his old home – a home that someone else has taken over – to repair the bathroom. The fact that the seller has such a right to repair makes it possible for residents to be effectively cut off from starting a necessary refurbishment – this may apply to electrical installations. You cannot live in a dwelling where the electrical system is not working, but the seller can invoke the right to repair and thus shift the whole process of finding out if the defect is significant, so that it imposes a responsibility on the seller for repair. My question is very simple: does the Council of State see that it is a point to consider removing the seller's right to correct defects under the law of disposal, and to propose to the Storting to do so, in order to ensure the balance between the buyer and the seller – which is absolutely necessary – and to recognise that it is unreasonable for people to stay in houses that are mutilated or that have damaged electrical installations? Let's be honest: it's only when there's such a big deal about the electrical system, or about the repair of the bathroom or kitchen – that kind of wet room – and you discover mold, you like to get in the position that you have to deal with this, and it's a defect that's so big that it's going to be about the seller's responsibility. My question is very simple: will he recommend his large-scale groups to vote in favour, since they are not co-suggested? This is an outstretched hand for them – if they want to be with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4013	The President may at least recommend the representative Eidsvoll Holmås to speak to the President. But now we're going to hear what State Council Amundsen has to say – State Council Amundsen, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4020	I would assume that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås understands that it is not the task of a Council of State to advise representatives in the Chamber on how to choose to handle matters for treatment. I have respect for the principle of power-sharing – respect for the work done in the Storting and for the work done in the committees. I mean – and I think that I was quite clear, both in the line-up and in my original post – that more action needs to be sought and put in place, review the law, look at what can be done to simplify, find appropriate solutions, clarify rights and, in particular, mitigate the level of conflict. This is where I think everyone agrees. I think it is also reflected in the involvement in the hall today from all parties, from the left to the right, that good solutions are being sought in this area – because it is an important area, it concerns many. If you get into a bad situation – which I perceive several representatives were involved in their posts – it can really put you in a very difficult economic situation, and it creates great challenges in your privacy. I am asking for an understanding that I cannot stand here and conclude with regard to the outcome, what the final conclusions of the work that is going to be going to be, but I think there is every reason to look at all the good proposals that can help to strengthen the legislation, provide clearer and better legislation, which ensures a good balance between the buyer and the seller.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4029	I am at least pleased that the Council of State says that he will consider all the good proposals, because there is a great need for some new rules in this area. I am very pleased with the proposal under consideration, and many of the different measures that will be adopted today. I have been particularly concerned about this in producing good condition reports. There has been a raging development in the housing market, and the real estate industry is making it sharp. There is certainly a great need for it, but when you are going to buy a dwelling, I know that the buyer himself is fully able to assess whether it is an apartment you think is nice, whether the view is good, whether you like the location and such things, which is often emphasised in the type of advertising, while the technical standard of the dwelling is very few of us who have the skills and knowledge to properly assess. And that's the most important thing, at least in determining the value of a dwelling you're going to buy. It is not always certain that the seller has a full overview either. So putting in place a code of standardised status reports, as it says here, where you can get a completely sober and correct assessment of the technical standard of the dwelling, is very important. We know from the media only the last few days that there are a lot of homes that are sold without people even looking at what had to be made of such things, too. It's hard not to advise, but I realize that you might hit when you find the dream home, especially if there's a big fight about it. But because this is so much investment, which can lead to an almost total economic disaster for people if you buy the cat in the bag, it is necessary that the authorities are inside and regulate how this is going to happen. It is to have authorisation schemes for appraisers and qualified condition reports that can establish the technical standard of the dwelling – at least in a much better way than the assessments made today, and what is done in the prospectuses provided by the real estate brokerage industry – so that much safer housing is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4036	In this case, there are several good proposals that are adopted, on the basis of the intention to improve the conditions for the seller and the buyer in this market. The reason I took the floor was the active invitation of the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the government parties to attend, and I would like to point out that he also, in a tidy and inviting way, contacted us in advance. It's challenging when you're not in the committee, and it's probably also the challenge for us that it got a little bit on the back, and then it's hard to deal with these proposals. But then I think maybe the representative Eidsvoll Holmås can go smiling from here today anyway, as it may look, and then we'll have to discuss it further in the next round. I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4043	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4059	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4068	I am very pleased that what is probably going to be my last post from this pulpit ever deals with a matter as important as violence in close relationships. I am also very pleased that there are two former and one sitting Minister of Justice in the Chamber when the matter is being debated, and that the government is present with three councillors. I think that shows how important this issue is, and it also shows how important it is to think across different sectors and work together to tackle a very serious problem. I am pleased that the proposals from the Labour Party give us the opportunity to discuss this matter, even though the concrete proposals from the Labour Party are already largely under preparation and implementation in the government. In this context, I would like to refer to the action plan that just takes account of the cross-political perspective in the fight against violence in close relations. There is no doubt that this theme has been taboo. I remember Odd Einar Dørum as perhaps the first Minister of Justice who really got pressured into violence in close relationships as a problem that deserved to be talked about. The victims were to be talked to, and the solutions were to come. But it's only in recent years that one has really seen that some of these taboos are about to fall. The measures work, the trust in the judiciary is better, the trust in the follow-up apparatus is better, and we are very pleased with that. I want to spend some time on one of the measures on which there is a cross-political agreement, and I am very happy that it is. The use of the reverse violent alarm has been a measure that can now be judged. Fortunately, there have been several more judges on the reverse alarm, but there is still something that is going on. That means that the victims of violence in close relationships are still those who bear the heavy burden even after violence has ceased. They must be relocated, they must be reestablished, and they must also bear the burden of using a violent alarm, while the perpetrator escapes. That is why I am pleased that what seems to be a unanimous increase is going in order to ask the government to consider the use of reverse violence alarm as a criminal tool. I'm aware that it's demanding. There are several legal issues that are difficult, but the fact that what seems to be a unanimous expansion, now the government is actually asking to do this, is an important step in a direction that can really affect the everyday life of all those who unfortunately live in a situation that is completely inhuman, where they have to hide from former girlfriends, where they have to be relocated, moved and reestablished once in a while, not because they have done something wrong, but because they are subjected to something that is so wrong. Thank you for many good debates, President, and good luck in this important work! I'm glad the committee is as united as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4079	Thank you to the representative, Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4084	It is necessary to have good plans to prevent violence in close relationships. But it is equally important for those who have been subjected to violence, that they receive follow-up and help to move on in life. When someone looks for a crisis centre and seeks refuge there, violence has often lasted a long time, and it may be difficult to reestablish itself. The local authorities' responsibility for having a crisis centre is clear. It shall also involve follow-up and support during the restoration phase. Unfortunately, we don't always know that. That is why we are promoting five proposals which deal precisely with this. When the government parties refer to the escalation plan, they refer to a plan that, in our opinion, is not concrete enough or binding enough. That is what was asked to happen in the request decision 623 in June 2015, that they should come back to Stortinget with it. The Children's Ombudsman describes the plan as a problem description. UNICEF believes that the government is not responding to the task, and Kripos calls for more concrete action. There are also too few responses and measures for those who break out of difficult couple relationships, i.e. about re-establishment. When, in comments, the Right Party and the Advance Party almost mocked the fact that the Workers' Party did not vote for any of the proposals in the escalation plan, but chose to propose a stepping-up plan that should be obliged, it is with the backcloth I have briefly mentioned that we did so. It is important that all actors assume their responsibilities, such as the need for Nav to ensure a coherent and coordinated offer with a predictable framework. When the government is now proposing to cut the time to receive redundancy payments, this will just affect this group, which may need more time for rehabilitation. Municipalities still lack action plans against violence in close relationships. They'll have to see to it. Measures must be taken against children who are at risk of violence, housing must be provided and a safe framework must be provided. And to what the representative Anundsen was talking about, it's important that we use the reverse alarm of violence. That is why I am addressing the proposals that we have made here today. What's here today isn't good enough. We want more. We want those exposed to violence to have a new chance of living their lives, without violence and with good follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4099	The representative, Sonja Mandt, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4104	The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party shall submit five proposals, as referred to. I'll praise them for that. Although it's the largest opposition party, although it's about to be an election, I choose to interpret it in the best possible sense. Because we have to constantly seek to reduce the dark, sad and violent events that happen in the private space, and help them implicated, especially children, in a difficult situation. It is proposed, inter alia: that the government should strengthen its follow-up and increase its oversight. It implicitly means that there are activities going on, and that's right. Significant work is being done, and the fact is that a number of measures have been undertaken by the government, as mentioned by the rapporteur. Let me mention in parentheses that in this area of which so many others will it will be that the allocation of resources has no final roof. So to the measures. That's Prop. 12 S for 2016-2017, Step-up plan against violence and assault [[2017-2021]] It is good to announce that the Committee is in agreement with the importance that work, to have a job, is an important factor in a re-establishment phase. This work is already guided by Nav's priorities. Let me also mention a new measure that is now being established: a victim care service. Persons who are victims of violence or abuse shall subsequently meet a more comprehensive auxiliaries in the various phases following an incident, in order not to end up in a vacuum or fall between two chairs between police reports, investigations, court proceedings and re-establishment. Sometimes it may be useful, yes smart, to turn around the issues. As time changes, there may be a need for new angles and measures, which can often result in positive results for the best. Here we have such a case, as a joint committee is now promoting a new proposal by asking the government to investigate whether the reverse alarm of violence could be used as a criminal instrument. This tells me, who hasn't been with us before after delivery, that the committee work must have been very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4119	First of all, let me be sorry: in an incursion, the Christian People's Party does not have any further comments that we should obviously be in, and that we agree with the heart. We all share the opinion of the proposers that the best interests of children and the rights of children need to be further safeguarded through the follow-up of victims of violence at the re-establishment stage. That's what they say. Violence and abuse are serious crimes that need to be combated by a holistic approach, with measures covering different sectors. This also includes the recovery phase of victims of violence. Combating violence and assault is a priority area for the Christian People's Party, and in this respect I will refer to the treatment of the escalation plan against violence and abuse in ours, which was submitted on a proposal from the Christian People's Party, where we were impressed by a number of measures that strengthened the escalation plan in the justice, health and family field. I also notice that the Workers' Party, which, of course, wanted to send the escalation plan back without any processing, again uses the opportunity to criticise this. Yes, it is almost that one can call their mention of the escalation plan as a pure problem description, but it does not show constructive willingness to cooperate to improve the plan. The reality is that if the Labour Party had been given what they wanted, the introduction of important measures to help children and young people who are subjected to serious abuse would have been further delayed. The Christian People's Party has worked hard to get the most done in this matter – on several fronts, including in the budget negotiations, where we have had an impact on a number of measures during this enlargement period. In particular, I would like to highlight the strengthening of family protection, the school and health care services, the police and the State Children's Home. Then we will finally remind the government that the Storting expects rapid and effective follow-up of the escalation plan. This is about the lives and future of children and young people, so we have no time to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4132	I would like to start by thanking the proposers for raising an important issue and making proposals that, in the SV's view, will strengthen the work against violence in close relations. We support the proposals of minorities and the proposal for a decision of the Committee. Violence in close relationships is a serious social problem. It costs society enormous sums, it costs the individual loss of freedom and loss of health, and that's something that can affect us all. No matter where we come from, and what class background we have, it's something you can be exposed to. It is then essential that society be able to stand up with security. It's with pride that I see myself as part of the women's movement and my party as part of the women's movement, which has been working for crisis centers. And it is with pride that I look at the work of the red-green government to legislate on the right to emergency services. Then it is essential to be able to ensure that people are not only safe to break out of violence, but also housing in the transition phase – when getting out of a violent relationship – where we know that the threat is also greatest, and in a permanent housing situation. Then it is clear and necessary that the auxiliaries in total and Nav are involved in conveying work based on the situation in which the victim is exposed. Violence against women is also violence against children. That is why I am pleased that the children's perspective is raised in the proposal. It is clear that SV supports it. This is an area and a political field where it is very easy to agree. It is so easy to agree that sometimes it becomes difficult to understand why action should take so long. That is why I think it is positive that the proposals are being made today, because it is not enough to have a law if it is not followed up, and it is not enough to have a bet if it is not noticed or made in the everyday life of those who are exposed, and those who are involved. I find it strange that the Committee does not choose to support the proposals of the minority, while it is very gratifying that a unanimous committee will continue to work on the reverse alarm of violence. It's a job SV has been giving priority and working for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4143	The work against violence in close relations is an important work that the government has prioritised highly. The plan of action against violence and abuse has a number of measures to follow up those who have been subjected to violence in close relations. The evaluation of local authorities' follow-up to the Crisis Centres Act shows that we are on the right track. Nevertheless, we know that we have a way to go, and we are now working on a better crisis response for particularly vulnerable groups, for example. people who also have serious drug problems, mental illness and disabilities. We also know that there are challenges in municipalities in ensuring coordination of actions between crisis centres and other services. Although there are many centres that offer a good follow-up plan after the stay, helping to find housing, going to the show, helping with moving and providing legal assistance, we know that there are some big differences between the centres. It is therefore important to follow this up in further work. I can assure the proposers that the government is concerned that the victims of violence will receive the follow-up they need in the restoration phase. When a person who has been subjected to violence in close relationships goes on in his life without violence, there are in particular two things that are crucial. One is work, and the other is housing. Many victims of violence are not in paid employment. They may also have been financially dependent on the perpetrator, and they will need extra help to get to work. We also know that users of crisis centres have different backgrounds and different needs, so Nav offices play an important role. They shall provide information and guidance and identify the individual’s needs. The Nav offices have now received additional information that they will contribute to the assistance and support for work or training. Getting the opportunity to live somewhere else is absolutely crucial in order to break up with a violent partner. I am very pleased that the government in this ageing period has stepped up the grant to rental properties to facilitate that the municipalities have sufficient housing for disadvantaged people on the housing market. Others need the stability of their own, owned housing, and need the assistance of the municipality. It's important to be able to get a start-up loan, which is a priority within the mortgage lending framework. Ensuring follow-up to victims of violence in the rehabilitation phase should be a priority task for municipalities, and we are now working to develop a supervisor with professional recommendations on the content and quality of the crisis centre offer. What with children has also been taken up. It is worrying that in 2016 nearly 1,500 children lived in crisis centres. Children are perhaps the most vulnerable group of all, and parents need to be helped to support their children in a very chaotic situation. That is why I am pleased that ICDP has now been tried out, which is a parental guidance course, which has helped those victims of violence in the crisis centres not to return to the violent perpetrator.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4164	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4170	The Council of State agrees with the Committee that during 2017, one will prepare a guide for the municipalities as part of the follow-up to the NOVA evaluation on crisis-centre laws. My question is, why has it taken two years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4175	Let me stress that the municipalities have a separate responsibility to follow up the crisis centre law, so it would be almost unnecessary for the state to go in and make a supervisor and make sure that the municipalities do the work they are required to do. We got the evaluation report, and this is so important that we spent the time we needed. There are many measures that have been important for us to follow up, both on the issue of extra good follow-up to those with complex challenges and on the issue of certainty. We've also worked on a prescription. We are now doing a good job of creating a supervisor for the municipalities, which will be done during this year, in order to better attend to this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4182	Thanks for the answer. It's a fact, when you read the comments on this case, that a push the municipalities ahead of them in a lot of questions. But I'll take that answer. I have a new question: the Council of State also shows in its response to the Committee that housing-social action plans are positive and that they are important in order to identify the need for a successful transition from institution to dwelling. The Nou Rome for all also recommends that all municipalities should have housing-social action plans. What will the Council of State do to enable all municipalities to establish such housing-social action plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4191	I want to clarify one thing: no one is pushing the municipalities in front of them, but we are so organized that the municipalities have a responsibility, even after the law, which is important for the individual municipality to follow up. Then we have supervisory authorities to ensure that the municipalities also follow up what they have a statutory responsibility to do. This government has a strategy for housing social work, and for the first time we now see that there is a decline in the number of homeless people. We also see that municipalities can apply for support for start-up loans. The fact that we have invested in housing for disadvantaged people has made it easier for those in crisis centres in need of help to get housing. It is important to stress that the municipalities that have good housing social plans are able to succeed in this work. I would encourage the municipalities to work actively on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4200	Fortunately, as the Council of State said in its statement, the evaluation of the crisis centre law shows that much has worked very well. But when it comes to those parts of the evaluation that show that it doesn't work as well, and it seems to me that it's only the municipality's task to solve: what value does this evaluation have then, if the council doesn't think we are. Here in Stortingen today, we can vote in favour of the proposals that we actively say that work needs to be strengthened, for example. in the re-establishment phase, as I actually feel that the Council of State says in its statement that it agrees?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4205	We're working, as I said, with a municipal counsellor, who'll be done during this year. We are also working on other measures, as shown in the evaluation report, for example: follow-up – several crisis centres have now acquired child-responsive staff. We have also worked with fuses. We are working on projects in three municipalities that are about following up those who have complex challenges. So we are on the right track with this work, but very much of this work is about following up the municipalities – including through the supervisory authorities – so that the municipalities follow up the important work they are required to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4212	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4217	I would like to thank the Committee for its work on the proposal. Powered in close relationships is not just a serious social problem; it is, as the representative Becquerad praised, gross crime. I am pleased that the committee is taking this matter seriously. At the same time, I found it a little sad that the case spokesperson did not use one minute to talk about the suggestions that are being made on the matter. We are some about the proposal to reverse the electoral alarm, but I would have liked the case spokesman to have devoted a little time to what was actually in the proposal. I think there's a slightly passive approach. The Committee shall be in favour of annotating – it is written in detail – but when one thinks that our proposal is not well enough argued for, and that there is a lack of evidence and not sufficiently elaborated, I wonder how some have been in the last four years. Because, as the case-speaker, the former Minister of Justice, well knows, it is well documented, and we know both in the Justice Committee and in the Family Committee that there are major challenges for people such as: shall exit a crisis centre and be rehabilitated in a dwelling. We know that there are great challenges for those who live with their own electoral alarm and who have been banned from visiting. So I miss a greater recognition of the problems we're actually addressing. Although the case spokesperson did so in his post, we do not see it at all. We know that the evaluation of the crisis centre law shows that much has been done. That's good. We in the Workers' Party are very much in favour of that law and are happy that she has worked in many ways. But we also see that many people feel that there is a shortage of housing, and that there is not enough coordination between the etats. When you read the supervisory reports from the County Council, as I and probably others have done, you can see that there is no indication of what is being offered, for example. in a follow-up phase. Following the Crisis Centre Secretariat, the County Council asks and the municipalities answer, but there is not enough evidence to support it. I see that unfortunately we don't get multiple numbers for the suggestions we make here today, although everyone is up here and says they're both good and good. It is unfortunately very common in these questions that we talk about it and think it is important and serious, etc., but it may not be so easy to vote for proposals from the Labour Party. We know that County supervision, for example, is being criticised for not being frequent enough, but when there are still not multiples for it, I would like to stress that I think it is good that the Council of State says that it will work to further develop supervision. In the end, the Labour Party voted to return the so-called'stamping plan', not because the measures were bad, but because the plan did not respond to the order from Stortinget. Governments and governments could have continued to work on all the good measures until they had created a better plan that was mandatory, as Stortinget actually asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4232	Having had the privilege of being able to occupy this pulpit for 16 years, I would like to end by just stressing the importance of the matter we are dealing with here today. I am looking at former colleagues from the Committee on Justice, Justice and Defence Policy and also other departments. Over the course of these 16 years, we have learned that it is possible to increase efforts in this area in a cross-political way – fortunately. This is a crime that affects so many. Extent studies show that there are 6,000 young people reporting during a week in Norway, either as witnesses or directly exposed. Much of the violence is very gross. A large proportion of the killings happen in these close relationships. We also know that there is a further violation of the confidence that lies in this type of crime, which makes it extra bad to bear. Unlike people who are affected by crime outside the house, these have no safe harbor to seek. I am very pleased that during these years, the President has also been involved in these debates, not only has it been clear to increase the level of punishment and have an almost paralysing consensus on how terrible this is, but that in many areas it has also been possible to create new social tools. Children’s homes are a good example of this. Kinderhaus is really quite re-establishing. Other types of measures are created which lower the testimonial threshold for the six-year-old who stands there or for the woman who has been exposed to it for years. For these are the terrors of everyday life. It never ends, and you fear gross crime at the other end. I am convinced that we will succeed in the years that are coming, in creating the measures that actually get women and children reestablished, whether it's through work or new house, just we're able to lower the evidence threshold in those areas. In the case of getting out, the threshold shall be low and the doubt shall benefit the young and the women in particular. I look forward to following the Storting from the outside with enhanced effort. That's what's needed. Good luck!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4243	The centre party will support all minority suggestions in the configuration. We also agreed to send the plan back. We mean the proposals that have come now, are important for the part that concerns rehabilitation, follow-up, etc. The plan that came from the government was criticised by organisations working with children, among others. The Barneombodet, who thought it was a problem description, UNICEF, who believed that the plan did not respond to what the Stortinget asked for, and Redd Barna, who thought that the measures were not adequate. For me and the Center Party, it's also about being able to create health-promoting societies, and if there's one thing I don't have in this kind of debate, it's the emphasis on alcohol and alcohol. We know that a lot of violence can be related to alcohol use. US figures show that between one-fifth and half of all parasitic powers are related to alcohol. We also have investigations from Norway in the same direction. Among women who have been subjected to physical use from a partner, one in four say that the partner had used alcohol. Other research shows that teenage problem drinking is associated with an increased risk of partnering at a young adult age. We know that the power exercised in alcoholic beverages is usually coarser than that done in other places. SIRUS research shows that between 50,000 and 150 000 Norwegian children live together with adults who have risky drinking habits and that young people with parents who are often drug addicts are much more vulnerable to domestic violence than other young people. I noticed that the Storting delivered more than 30 new proposals, and not one of them related to alcohol, while there was a great deal about the following measures. It's all right, but I could wish that we also had a lot of attention on prevention – yes, on drug policy. I think that during this period of government we have been less clear about it. We don't have any suggestions about this today, I just say it from the pulpit, and I want us to think in the follow-up to plans in this area about drug-use as part of the prevention of violence and choice in close relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4256	It is especially when several former Ministers of Justice took part in the debate, and especially when someone says they have their last speech for this time. I wish the Minister of Justice was here, but he probably has his reasons. I only need to address this with a restraining order. It is now in June two years since the Stortinget decided to evaluate the system of visitor bans. There were some of us all when we adopted it, and that's an important decision. But why does it take so long? I asked the Minister of Justice in January and got an answer that they were on the job description. It's not particularly impressive. That means if you finish this in 2017, you're going to have two and a half years. The reason I'm taking it up is that in the restoration phase that many people are in after being in a crisis centre, they have to carry a power alarm. There are some of those who have been selected or threatened with election, who are subject to a visitation ban, but we know from a lot of evidence that the visitation ban is more often broken than held. I then think that even with the proposal that the committee makes today, to deal with the use of electoral alert as a criminal tool, one must realise that it will take some time. So I want to stress the evaluation, and I hope that Councillor Horne will take it back to the Minister of Justice that it would have been my wish that we had already done, because I think that together we must have found a number of ways to protect those who live at home and are saved every day because people who are not actually allowed to come to their door will come to you anyway. Thank you for the debate. I would like the majority in Stortinget to have voted in favour of our proposals, but at the same time I am happy that together we can present the proposal for a reverse electoral alarm.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4268	Once again, we are discussing this serious issue in Stortinget, and once again, the issue of reverse violence alarm is an important part of the debate. We discussed it in the previous period, when the scheme was established, and during this magnification period we have discussed it many times. We know that getting a violent alarm enough for many can give a sense of security and some control, but unfortunately it is too many that it does not help, because the person who is practicing violence is still breaking the restraining order, and when you press the button, it is too late. So, for SV, the reverse alarm of violence is a hugely important measure to put in place for more people – both because we believe it can prevent violent epidemics and even killings, and because it places responsibility and restrictions on the perpetrator of violence. It is a rule of law that I believe the Storting must be much clearer, that it is the perpetrator of violence, who should have his action radius narrowed, not the woman or the whole family that has been subjected to this. The last time I looked at the statistics on killings in Norway, partner drops, that is, killed someone in the immediate family, almost half. It is terrible that not all police districts have implemented and put in place their method tools against partner drops. It says the Minister of Justice is up to the police districts, but it should be the government's responsibility to make sure that everyone does, because we know it saves lives. We have also not received any new proposals on how to extend the use of reverse violence alarm. I also fear that it will take new months and years of investigation, but it must be in place, because it can save lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4279	I'm not going to go out the debate, I just want to say thank you to the many people who burn for this and have done it for many years. This is a subject on which, fortunately, there is a cross-political consensus that it should be put on, and that we have a challenge. It's not the first time we've discussed this topic, and it's probably not the last time either. On Thursday, the Children's Violence Committee comes with its NOU. I've only gotten some knowledge of it, and it's alarming. With regard to violence in close relationships, this is a field on which we have a responsibility to lift up and have a stake. It is not that the government parties do not agree with the proposals of the Labour Party, but it is a work that we are doing well, and which I have responded very well to in a letter to the Committee, I believe. It is the municipalities under the Crisis Centre Act that are responsible for following up the victims of violence in the rehabilitation phase. There are many municipalities that have good plans for this, and the municipalities are encouraged to have good plans for this. The County is responsible for overseeing local authorities' compliance with the obligations laid down in the Crisis Centre Act. There is some work that the Ministry has included in its governance dialogues with the county office, in order to really stress that it is important for the county to address this issue. So we know that it's important to follow up the work that goes on Nav. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister of Labour, in his letter of assignment to the Directorate, has been very clear that the Nav offices should have the necessary expertise on special problems and the need for rehabilitation in relation to enquiries to people who are exposed to violence in close relationships, forced marriage and trafficking in human beings. It is now also working with its own web-based consultant for the Nav employees. Living we know is the key to getting out of a violent relationship – at least one of them. That is why I am pleased that the government has prioritised appropriations for the House Bank and the work to get housing for disadvantaged people, which is an important part. So until it's about the reverse alarm of violence. The government is also concerned that too rarely is used and that it is still the one who is exposed who has to bear the burden in those situations. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is now working on and has started working on a consultation note, in order to ensure more use of electronic control even in criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4294	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4310	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4319	I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation in order to deal with this matter before the summer as requested. A debate on how public funds are taken into account by the services ordered and on the follow-up to the use of funds is quite timely. The Committee therefore recalls the follow-up to the Storting Decision to set up a public body to monitor flows of money in publicly funded welfare services and that such monitoring could provide a much better basis for assessing measures to ensure that the money is used for that purpose. I see this as one in a number of issues promoted by SV to promote their ideological view of the fact that services for which the public is responsible are primarily to be performed by the public itself or private ideal suppliers. It is an ideological position we respect in the Right, even though we believe that it is not the name of the supplier or who pays wages to the employees that is crucial. For us, however, the quality of the services that are essential in the choice of suppliers is that it is within the orders that public authorities have made, and not least that a variety of offers to citizens is being established that provide the best possible assistance to those who need it. The challenges in the SV proposal are that they have concluded in a way that, with our best will, we cannot see to ensure the quality of services, nor that we ensure the diversity of offers needed for such a complex group as children's protection. The purpose of child protection services is to offer safe child-growth conditions in cases where families themselves are not able to offer this. This is an important task. All good forces must be put into service. No one has been able to convince me that if we adopt rules similar to those for children's protection institutions, the offer for children's protection will be better. Nor can anyone prove that if we give priority to the ideal providers with special contracts without competitive tendering, the offer to children's protection will be better. Nor can anyone be credible in saying that if the public choice of pay, employment and pension conditions becomes the facsimile of child protection services, the provision of child protection children is improved. We therefore do not support the SV's proposal, but support the Ministry's work on monitoring the cash flows and await the outcome of that monitoring. We are, I hope, in common to feel responsibility for the child protection service providing good offers to the children who need our help, an offer that provides them with a good basis for a safe and healthy life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4340	The representatives behind the proposal address a very topical issue, which I would like to thank for having addressed. It is important to keep this on the agenda at regular intervals. Many times both abuses and withdrawals from non-performing child-protection institutions have been detected which the community should not be involved in financing. There are good indicators that employment in private institutions may differ from the public sector, in particular in terms of working time, wages and pensions. It is important to say from this that there are many good, serious child protection actors who deliver good offers to children who need it and who are good employers. But these are the exceptions we have to address. whereas, therefore, there must be a continuous follow-up to the use of public funds and there must be monitoring of tenders; The Labour Party believes that child protection should be a public responsibility, but that ideal non-commercial actors are an important contribution to creating diversity. Private suppliers contribute to complementing and are important actors. Quality and competence as well as long-term contracts may create predictability and are missing. However, when we do not support the proposals for SV, which we can partly agree with, it is because the government has been asked to review and map the cash flow. I would also like to refer to the proposals that were put forward in the inner East. 354 L for 2016-2017, where the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party asked for a review of rules to look at the restriction of withdrawals. Unfortunately, that proposal did not receive a majority. But in the proposition of the Children's Protection Act, the government is problematic that so many actors in child protection are now private, and they themselves say that it is inconceivable and a difficult terrain to manoeuvre in. When we read this, we can hope that the government itself will see that we have to get ahead of ourselves. During the examination of the Child Protection Act, the Left proposed that there should be a review without affecting it with withdrawals. It was given a majority, thereby reinforcing the decision that was also taken in 2016. As a result, the government has been informed of what to do, and we expect it to give us a better overview and a better knowledge of what action should and must be taken to ensure that the money benefits the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4359	It's not long since the committee had a similar case to consider. At that time, there were profit-free kindergartens. This time, there's no-profit child protection. Like the chairman and the rapporteur of the Committee, I would also like to refer to the nomination of Document 8:128 S for 2014-2015 from the Financial Committee on the Profits of Publicly Financed Welfare Service. In that decision, the government was asked to set up a public body to look at the flow of money in publicly funded welfare services. I am pleased that the entire committee believes that such monitoring could provide a good basis for further action to ensure that our money is used for the purpose – for that is the whole point. That is also true, as the representative of Mr Mandt refers to from Innst. 354 L for 2016-2017, that the Christian People's Party, together with the Workers' Party, agreed on a proposal to go through the rules on child protection tenders in view of more control and restrictions on withdrawals. I believe it is important that we are constantly offensive and concerned about how the public money flow is in terms of what we use for the purchase of services in the private sector. I have to say that after the disclosure that VG had, by an actor who operates on the wrong basis, is flying under a false flag and calling himself an ideal actor, you have to wonder how the legislation is designed when you can get away with it. I am very happy that this matter has been resolved. When it turns out that something has happened that is not in accordance with the legislation, then the legislation must also be followed up, because it must not happen again. It is also important, not least because this not only affects confidence in the private sector, but because it has chosen to fly under a false flag, it also weakens confidence in the non-profit sector. I mean, as I said, it is important that we are concerned about how the public money flow is. And I think the most important thing we can do is to set quality standards – for quality costs, and then there should be no difference between public and private child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4370	The central party believes that public, tax-funded money that goes to child protection should go to child protection services and not to dividends in private, commercial companies. We want to build up under ideal actors, who for many years have made valuable contributions to the child protection sector. State Child Protection has increased its purchases from private suppliers by between 40 and 50 pst. in the last few years. About 70 pst. of the government purchases in 2015 occurred from commercial companies, and there was a large increase from the previous year. 65 pst. of them they want to reduce this use. In March 2016, the report from Vista Analysis on the use of private actors in child protection in Norway was published. The report’s summary states that private actors play many important roles in child protection. They have to a large extent been able to shape these roles themselves. Government authorities have to a small extent regulated the legal and market conditions, and this places municipal child protection services in a difficult situation, according to the report. These have extensive legal responsibilities, including: for the legal security of children, when they choose to outsource their tasks to private operators. They themselves need to design tools to fulfil these responsibilities, and they themselves need to find out how to manage them in a market strongly influenced by supplier power. The centre party believes that today's practice of short contract periods for child protection challenges the child's right to stable frames around growth. It is an authority's responsibility to ensure a good framework for private non-profit-making measures and institutions, and that contracts are designed in such a way that they also take care of valuable smaller players. Nearer 90 pst. commercial child-resistance services are currently provided by four large groups which have made child-resistance a lucrative industry. The centre party has programmed that child protection services should be run mainly by public and private non-profit organisations and will work for framework conditions that ensure this. We will end the use of competition and supply in the child protection sector. Private non-profit enterprises are an important complement and must secure long-term contracts with the public. From this point of view, we support the SV's proposals today. Public appeals to child protection institutions must comply with the corresponding rules, such as those laid down in § 6-3 of the Free School Act, where it states that the school cannot pay dividends or otherwise transfer profits to the owners or their relatives, and that the school cannot incur costs in terms of rental costs for property or premises belonging to the owners of the school or their relatives, or in any other way incur costs which may imply that the public overburdens or property of the students do not benefit the students. We see no argument that the same principle should not apply to the protection of children, nor is it agreed in the other proposals put forward in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4381	Care and care of exposed infants is one of the Community's most important tasks. Young people who are subjected to violence, abuse or care failure must be offered and provided with a level of safety that is stable, predictable and professionally sound. I think we can all agree on that, I think it's visions that are shared in this room. That's why it looks like we're separating layers on the way, because even though we all want to secure vulnerable kids, SV is sadly alone to want to ensure that the resources we as a society spend on vulnerable kids, just go to care and care and not to profit. We are sad to say that we want to make sure that the money goes to the child-rescue children and not the child-rescue barons, which carry values down to the tax haven. There's a screaming need to actually do that, because the Council of State has admitted on several occasions in this room that there is no overview of where the money is going. I think that is critical. Not wanting to take clear action – and there is no contradiction in doing more things at the same time – is, in my view, directly irresponsible. It is irresponsible because we should make sure that the tax money goes for the purpose for which they are assigned, not for tax havens, and because the funds, the resources, should go to the child-restraint children, not the child-restraint barons. Within the framework of child protection, a concentration of five commercial operators has occurred in the last 10 years. While there were a number of small providers a few years ago, foreign owners now dominate the market. Because yes, it's a market, where millions of dollars are collected in profits from the child protection sector. The diversity that is often hailed when we discuss these questions is about to disappear. Ideal actors who have made valuable contributions within the sector are skewed and uncompetitive by commercial actors. What I think is problematic, and it also shows that the developments that everyone wants, and which are just being raised in debates in the Great Britain and in the public, are quite different from what is happening in the sector. I appreciate the central party's clear support in the matter, and I appreciate that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party share their intentions, because no one can say for sure that market principles ensure a better offer for children's protection. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4392	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4397	In Norway, we have a long tradition of using private suppliers in child protection. Properly used, private actors will deliver better quality gains and lower costs compared to a situation with only public actors. The key to the government is that children and young people get the help they need. Private actors contribute to diversity and give child protection the option of choosing the best offer for the individual child. There has been a growth in the use of private actors in child protection in recent years. The challenges we face in this area, I mentioned a few weeks ago in Stortinget when we dealt with the child protection reform. However, the proposal of the representatives to limit dividends is not the right place to start. On the other hand, a dividend limitation may be a derailment. You can believe you're cleaning up, without doing anything about the real challenges of how and when you're using it in private. We need to start by looking at the basic framework conditions for the public use of private goods. It's such a review the government wants. Privates are to be used where it is useful and in a way that contributes to good quality, legal certainty and good use of resources, so that we get an offer that is best for the children. I don't see it as a problem that commercial operators make money to provide services that public needs. But of course, we don't have to pay more than necessary, and we have to be sure that we get the quality we order, and the quality the children need. Therefore, the services are acquired through competition, as was also done under the previous government. The framework agreements on the purchase of institutional premises concluded in 2010 contained no dividend prohibition clause. I now register that SV wants to terminate the tendering procedures. It would be very unfortunate for the offer of vulnerable children and young people. Procurement competitions are the tool we use to compare the price and quality of different actors. A narrowing of the institutional offer, as requested by the proposers, could present capacity challenges, fewer choices and a lower offer to the children. During this period, we have taken several steps to strengthen the department's management and control when purchasing services. We have worked to improve the contracts for the purchase of private foster home actors. This is done through so-called quadruple agreements between Buffetat, the municipalities, the foster homes and the private supplier. The new agreements have given Buffetat and the municipalities more control of the content. We also believe that the children have received the offer they actually need. Buffetat has also entered into new agreements with suppliers, such as the purchase of institutional premises in 2016. Unlike the contracts then concluded, the new framework agreements are clear as to what is to be delivered to each child and the price structure is simpler. I am concerned that we should have a variety of actors; we should have good control and quality for the benefit of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4414	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4420	The last disclosure within child protection was rough, and the council was ready to deal. In the Proposition of the Child Protection Act, which we treated recently, the government problematized and pointed it out, as I said in my post. In April 2016, it was decided to set up a sample to monitor the cash flow – which was also the subject of the Council of State. During the examination of the Child Protection Act, there was a new proposal for a review. How much has the Council of State done since April 2016, and what will she do with the new proposal that was adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4427	As I said, a decision was taken, and it is the Minister of Finance who is responsible for monitoring that flow of money, so I probably don't have any up-to-date knowledge of that. But it is possible to get the representative. As far as my area of responsibility is concerned, several reports have been received in the context of the reform of child protection that show that it is important to review the use of private services by municipalities, especially in the home area. This was supported and was adopted in Stortinget 14 days ago. It's a work we're doing, and then I can't say anything more about how far we've come. But I can assure the representative that this is a work we have started, while also following up the proposal that was adopted here on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4434	By letter to the Committee of the Regions, the Council of State wrote that: ‘The government considers that there is no reason initially to distinguish welfare services from other types of services. However, the establishment of markets for different measures and services must take into account the specificities and characteristics of each area.» And on the other hand, ‘An example is that it may be difficult for children to say from the point of view of child protection’. It also states that the reform of child protection has mentioned a specific feature in the area of child protection. Is the Council of State comfortable describing the area of child protection as a market?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4451	Like the previous government, of which the Central Party was a member, we believe it is also important to have private actors. Private operators have provided good welfare services to the child protection field for many years, and I hope it will continue. It is important that we have a diversity; it is important for children to be offered to adapt to their needs. The government also wants to give municipalities greater responsibility in the field of child protection – to be able to choose institutions and locations. Then it is important that we have offers that individual children need. Then we're not going to pay more for the services than what's necessary. That's why I'm glad we've taken hold of these years, both in terms of institutional positions and in terms of following up on what's going on in the purchase of foster homes. Some of them do not go out until 2018. It is important to have good control, it is important to have good quality and to ensure that you get this. There are some grips that the government has taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4458	Nobody in this room talks about there being only public actors, but SV distinguishes between ideal and commercial, and today the commercials are competing the ideals, so the Government's goal of diversity, which is repeated several times, is strongly threatened. The Council of State said in its statement that dividend reduction is not the way to go. Then I wonder which way the Council of State thinks it is right to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4465	Like the previous government, where SV sat with the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, it is also important that we use both ideal and commercial. I do not agree that the commercials are competing for the ideals. When we had a tendering procedure for institutional placement in 2016, the ideal priority was given to them. They also received a separate shielded tendering procedure, and they were allowed to be present in the open. So the ideals have good opportunities to be part of this. It's no shame to make money in this country. What's important is that we have a diversity, that we have the private people who share in making a good offer, and that we don't pay more than we should for services. That's why I don't want to limit the dividends. I record that it did not do the previous government, with SV at the head, as they signed the agreements in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4472	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4477	No, it's no shame for private companies to make money. But it is a shame if we do not ensure that the money allocated to child protection goes to child protection. That's what this is all about. Now the Council of State says that she has lighted competitions where you have set parts of it to a system for ideals. Yeah, it's fine. It criticized the Party of Advancement Socialist Left very strongly for when we were in government. You have to do that on a regular basis. It's not about the Socialist Left Party thinking that the employees of these institutions are doing a bad job. No, that's not what this is about. It's about child protection not being a store, and about running child protection because you're concerned with child protection, and not because you just have an interest in making money on it. I've been looking at these that are now private providers in child protection. The seven largest child protection actors have shown that they have large dividends, but the government has refused to provide the Storting with the amount of public money spent on private dividends. Who are these providers? For the past 4–5 years, almost the entire commercial child protection sector has now concentrated on five groups – Aleris Ungplan and BOI AS, Humana AB, Team Olivia AB, Unicare BAB AS and Aberia Ung AS. The three largest groups have Swedish ownership, owned by different financial buying-in funds. Aleris is owned by the Wallenberg fund Investor AB and some other funds, registered in London and in the tax haven of Luxembourg. Team Olivia is owned by the Swedish Guernsey registered fund Procuritas. In 2016, Unicare Holding was partially sold to the UK purchase fund G Square, while half of the shares are distributed to the Norwegian managers of the company: Tom E. Tidemann-Andersen with 30 pst. and Una Aas with 20 pst. These are not the small women's entrepreneurs who are talking about the Right and the Advance Party. These are large multinational companies – investment funds – which, therefore, place themselves in a tax haven and do not contribute to the community here, but which are allowed to put their suction pipe into a common safe and withdraw money that the child-restraint children should receive, which should have gone to a good offer and to decent jobs for employees, so that we can recruit the best for these jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4490	I take the floor to stress that the Workers' Party wants the money spent by the public to benefit the child-restraint children. There are different approaches in this debate to how this can be solved. I think we all recognise the same problem – that too much of the money disappears in dividends, and that we have a sector that appears very attractive not only in Norway but in a number of countries, almost as an investment object for large international groups. Then it's a big challenge for us politicians to look at what we can do to make sure more sure that the money that's being given benefits the children. The Socialist Left proposes a ban on dividends. We think that is both difficult to implement and unfortunate, because it is important that there is a sector in which there is an interest to seek and where we have a great diversity. At the same time, the Workers' Party – I have done so on a number of occasions – also, together with the Christian People's Party, stresses that if you have the opportunity and where you have the opportunity, you must give priority to non-profit actors who take greater care of pay and working conditions and not least the quality of the young. In response to the challenge of the Socialist Left Party, only Solvency Horne and the government answer that it is bad and difficult to get to a constraint. Okay, but what do we do after all with the space of action we have? For a long time, we have called for the possibility of emphasising on pay, employment and pension conditions in the tendering process, that quality is more important than price, and that investment in competence for employees and permanent jobs is given priority in the determination of tenders. I would like to hear what the Council of State wants to do to ensure that many strict requirements are laid down in tendering procedures that ensure that the money is spent on quality. It will in itself prevent dividends, because money is spent on investing in employees and in the provision of children and young people, it will be less profitable for dividends. The Workers' Party believes this is an important way to go, but there we see that the government seems completely paralysed. I could imagine asking what messages Solvency Horne has sent to Buffetat to ensure that the quality is given greater emphasis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4499	I have some words related to the ban on dividends and why it is desirable somewhere and not others. I find it hard to understand why it's okay to pick up money for the most vulnerable kids in society in private profit. Why is it possible to do that? Why is it okay that we have a law that says that a six-year-old in school should be protected, while it's okay that a three-year-old in kindergarten or a teenager in child protection should be a speculation object? Why is that logical? And why is that acceptable? It seems to me to be a difficult reasoning to understand – if the goal is actually that money set aside for well-being should go to well-being and not for profit, if money set aside for the exposed kids, for care or training should go for the purpose and not end up in private pockets. It would be interesting to hear the thoughts of the Council of State about the work being done, and how it should be followed up – whether there is a need to seize it if it turns out that a large proportion of the money, which the Council of State does not have control of where to go, disappears into private pockets. Or is it that it is legitimate to make money on child protection, not to have a limit so long as competition is so hard that cheap services can be provided? Because that's the way the government argues, it's not a problem that the money disappears from the exposed kids, just that you don't pay too much for the service that's being provided. When we were in government, we replaced bidding rounds with long-term contracts. It wasn't because the quality came in second order, it was because the safety of the kids and the quality, predictability and the overview were to come first. It is very good that we see that on the red-green side we share the visions of the field, and that at least we see that we should in the same direction in the long term ensure that money for well-being goes for the purpose. This suggests that we need a government shift in order for the investigations that are being carried out to actually be followed up in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4512	It's made in this room as if there's zero control here, but let me make it clear that this is a work that the government has been dealing with in several areas, both in the foster home and in the institution area. I would also like to remind you that many of the foster home contracts were concluded in 2012, and those contracts ran until 2018. There's a difference between the parties here in this hall, because the right parties believe that there's nothing wrong with being able to make money and also make money on services given in child protection. But the most important thing we that state owners can do is to make sure that we don't pay too much. The way to do this is to use the tender systems, as used by the previous government – it was not about a dividend ban when SV, the Senterpartiet and the Workerspartiet were running. For us, it has been important when we have concluded the new agreements, because the competitions help us to compare the players in terms of both quality and price. It is also the way we manage to ensure that we have the best possible offer for the children. It is also the case, as the representative of Grande said, that it is important that suppliers provide the client budget with a cost overview. It provides an opportunity to follow the real costs incurred by suppliers in each individual task. Suppliers must also be able to demonstrate, through a comprehensive authorisation system, tax payments, pay and working conditions and the competence of employees. As a condition for having contracts with Bufetat, institutions must be approved in accordance with the applicable regulations. We know that many people are talking about employment. I'm very pleased with the possibility, as children's children also take up, that many of the private people can have a part-time tour, which makes the children get a better relationship with those who work there, they can work longer, and the children also don't have to deal with so many employees. So there are many advantages with both ideal and state and commercial actors. I am pleased that we have the private actors, who contribute to many important tasks in the field of child protection, and it is important that we have control and supervision of the work they are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4528	The next speaker is the representative of Arild Grande, who must have changed his place on the list of speakers with the representative of Svein Harberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4533	I hear what the council says, but there's nothing new in this. It is current practice, and it has been for many years, that we have to operate within legislation and that we have to document how our business deals with both pay and work conditions and the responsibilities that we have given. That was not the question and my challenge. It was about: What has the Council of State done since 2016 to ensure that the quality requirements of the tenders are strengthened? How can you make sure that you compete more in quality than in price? It doesn't have any answers at all to that. I cannot understand that the Progress Party and the Council of State can sit still and watch that so much money that should have gone to the children, of taxpayers' money, goes to dividends abroad. It's a mystery to me. It's quite obvious, as Kirsti Bergstø is in the middle of it, that if you're going to change this, and if you're going to increase quality over price, we're going to need a government shift for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4542	The idea of the exchange is that I thought I was going to be the last speaker, for two reasons. One was that I wanted to thank you for the debate, and as I said in my post, it is an important debate and an important attention. Then we will see how we can make sure that the money goes to what they're assigned to. I think we have a common intention of that, whether it's private providers, private ideal providers, or public service providers. But in addition to thanking for the debate, I wanted to thank Solvency Horne for four years of cooperation – good debates and good cooperation. This is the last debate this family and cultural committee has on the family front, and I think the Council of State has delivered both good and good to the committee. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4551	The representative, Kirsti Bergstø, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4556	I would also like to thank you for the debate and for the time that has passed – and for the times that we look forward to coming. It was interesting that the Council of State in its speech included the participation tour, because precisely working conditions are an important dimension in the question of how to save money in the child protection sector. We have serious examples of understaffing, of tour arrangements that not only release health for employees but also solve quality and professional safety. Since the Council of State has now signed up, I wonder if she can answer how she views the seriousness of saving money on work that goes on health and professionalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4565	I can follow up on just a little bit here, because I've met those who think it's been really great with the participation tour, but in the last few years I've also met someone who works in the Child Protection Service who says that after three days you're completely worn out and you don't have any more to give, and that you don't look forward to working that way for a very long time. This means that there will be a high “turnover” and that you will gather little experience. So I think if you look at this, you have to do it thoroughly. Then I am happy when the representative Harberg says that the money should go to what they are assigned to – and that is exactly what SV is discussing. I instead rammed up a whole series of these international companies -- it's probably more than me that gets almost both dizzy and confused by this uproar -- and it's almost impossible to figure out who's the owner and where the cash flows go. I think it's good if we can now look at these cash flows, but I wonder what the government intends to use that investigation for, if it's not to limit money being taken out of this system, money that we've granted for child protection, and that's going out of child protection again – and even out of the country and into companies that have invested in tax havens. I do not understand what the government intends to use such a flow of money analysis, if it is not to limit this. The second is: now there was a child protection reform that was presented here, and the Council of State repeats that now the municipalities are going to do more of this. One of the problems with tenders is that it is very complicated. I see that the Council of State shakes its head, but then she can explain it, because she stood here right now and said the point was that the municipalities would then also conclude such contracts. And it's very difficult to conclude these contracts, as the council knows, because she also knows that the big state system has been tricked by someone who pretends to be non-profit, and that's not. There are a lot of ways to hide money in these companies that are not about taking out dividends, but are about organizing smart, with different types of companies, and taking out money in different areas. And I'm worried if it really is that the Council of State believes that the municipalities are now going to do more of this, because there are very many municipalities that do not have the competence to do so. At least then we have to stop hearing that there are too many bureaucrats in the public sector. Because if we're going to have systems like this where you're going to deal with people in this way, you have to have enough bureaucrats who are competent to handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4574	I stood here and said that the municipalities would have a greater freedom of choice when choosing institutions, and if Andersen's representative had followed the child protection reform, which we debated two weeks ago, she would see that the state would still be responsible for the institutional offer and make sure that we have sufficiently well-qualified institutional places. I have stood on this platform and said that during this period we have made more efforts to strengthen the department's governance and control when purchasing services. We have worked to improve the contracts when purchasing from private foster home actors. It shall be done through so-called quadruple agreements, between Bufetat, the municipalities, the foster homes and the private supplier. The new agreements have given Bufatat and municipalities more control over the content, dimensioning and cost of the individual foster home location. This has led to a better adaptability of services to the needs of the child and a greater alignment of prices with the measures actually given to the child. In the field of institutional competition, more stringent documentation requirements were imposed in 2016 on suppliers’ practices, internal control, objectives and objectives than in previous acquisitions, and suppliers also have to provide client budgets with a cost overview. This allows Bufetat to monitor the actual costs incurred by suppliers for each individual task. In the purchase of services, Buffetat imposes conditions of pay and employment on suppliers and subcontractors, and conditions resulting from national collective bargaining agreements are also required for the industry. I do not wish, unlike the proposers, to give any other guidance for this than the social partners themselves have come up with. Private actors contribute to better quality and lower costs of child protection. The key to the government is that children and young people get the help they need. We have control, but we have also seen that there are challenges that we are going to address, that we have notified, that the Storting has asked us to follow up. And it's done. I would like to end by thanking the Committee for its good cooperation. We have had healthy, good debates in both the field of child protection, equality and family life, but there are important debates on which there is largely cross-political agreement, and it is important to bring them into the time that is coming, in order to ensure our parents and to ensure our children's safe growth conditions are important areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4595	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4611	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4620	The representative proposed here is about the reorganisation and conversion of the Swedish Archives. There have been various issues in the Storting on several occasions in recent years, both in representative proposals, in questions and in budgetary proposals. It testifies to a high level of involvement for the sector as a whole. Although we experience a cross-political commitment to the archive sector, there is a little bit different in this case. The proposal proposes to amend the conversion of the Swedish Archives Agency, including: It is not a proposal that the Committee has wanted to address. The majority of the Committee refers to a previous request decision on the revision of the archival law and considers that it responds adequately to the proposed representative. Besides that, I expect the majority to explain its own views. For the Labour Party – first of all: there have been some alternative solutions here today from the proposers. The Labour Party will signal support for proposal No. 4, from the Center Party, on digitisation. That's in line with what we write in our comments. The new wording is also in line with what the Council of State has said in the past – to preserve historical conservation originals even though they are digitised. I see it as an emphasis on something that we all agree on. As far as the reorganisation is concerned, we in the Labour Party share several of the concerns of the proposers. Not to say that we should keep things as they have always been – archive services need to change in line with technology development and changing framework conditions. There has also been an objective of the reorganisation. The new organisational structure may include, inter alia: also allow for more consistent supervision and the exercise of the powers of the Archives. What is important to us is that it is not the task of the Storting to intervene in internal reorganisation processes carried out after agreement with trade unions and employee representatives. The process has led to a lot of uncertainty, but now that it has landed, we think it would be unfortunate to help create new uncertainties for employees. It has been a pre-requisite of the Storting that the state archives should exist as separate entities through the reorganisation. It still requires the Workers' Party. We are concerned that the state archives have an important role to play in their regions, and that they require good local anchoring and some local management. We are also concerned that the local magazine capacity of each state archive is important. If we do not support the other proposals, it is because we consider them to be taken care of in our own proposal. The involvement shown for archives in general in Stortinget in recent years, relating to both the Archives and private archives, as well as in issues raised in the proposal for a representative and in our comments, shows, we believe, that there is a need for an overall discussion of the role and function of archives in Norwegian society, including private archives. We believe that a broad archive investigation should be carried out. I therefore take up the proposal of the minority, the Workers' Party, in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4639	The representative Lasse Juliusen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4644	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good job and for a thorough review. I don't need to draw this debate out very much. There is agreement in the committee to attach the original proposal to the protocol, precisely because – as the rapporteur said – one does not see it as the task of the Stortinge to be involved in the kind of processes in which the Archives is now involved. This does not mean that the Stortinget cannot believe anything about how the archival service in Norway is to be organised in the future, but if the Stortinget is to participate and believe anything about it, a much better basis is needed than what we have here today. That's why we're on it. There's a tough conversion The Swedish Archives Agency is inside – because the times are changing. It's a completely necessary conversion. I have faith that the Swedish Archives Agency is working seriously and properly with this and is working well with its employees. The feedback we have received is that this is absolutely necessary. One has to adapt to a new world, one has to adapt to the new needs that emerge. So a little comment on the proposal of the minority, from the Workers' Party. What is worrying is that it says that one should ‘start a wide-ranging investigation into the archiving functions of society, with particular emphasis on regional archive services, national interactions and the management of digital challenges’. That's the process we're now in the middle of. I strongly advise against making a decision that would suggest that this should stop now because one is going to do a wide and thorough investigation. I believe that the process that has been initiated must – as the rapporteur said – go ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4653	Nor shall I make any long post, just notify that the Christian People's Party does not think it appropriate to now intervene in internal processes carried out in agreement with, among other things. the employees’ organisations in the Archives. We do not think that is appropriate, and at least we do not want to contribute to stopping processes, which may prevent the Archives from being equipped to meet future archive challenges. At the same time, a majority opinion refers to a decision taken in connection with the Inst. 14 S for 2016-2017: «The Government is asked to initiate a revision of the 1999 Archive Act.» It was an overall committee that was behind that proposal. But that proposal is about a selection such as: shall describe the main challenges and trends in the archive sector. I'm a little concerned that it might not be enough to secure a regional archive, and at least I don't know if it's enough to be offensive to private archives. I would like to make it known that the Christian People's Party will support the Workers' Party's proposal No. 1 in the settings. But I have a question for proposal No. 4, from the Central Party, one of the solutions to the proposals, because in the vote they are promoting three proposals, and with regard to the third proposal, the Department is very clear that this could be a proposal such as this. prevents the establishment of the health archive in Tynset. Proposal No. 4 is a revision of proposal No. 3, so I'm just wondering if the Council of State has had the opportunity to look at proposal No. 4, and if it's still so that if there's a majority for it, it could be a hindrance to the establishment of the health archive on Tynset, and at least it doesn't want the Christian People's Party to start pecking the wheels for. But we are therefore voting in favour of proposal No. 1 from the Working Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4667	The Swedish archivist is now carrying out a large-scale reorganization of the Swedish Archives Agency, which should worry about a mass accumulation. The eight state archives in the regions are weakened, they are added to be streamlined by depriving them of responsibility and distance from other places in the country. The reorganisation should provide better and more efficient services for users, but the opposite has happened. The downgrading of the historical and archival competences in the state archives has led to clearly poorer conditions and access for the public. This applies to both normal and professional history writing. Historians, legal historians, contributors and others have expressed concern about these developments. The state archivists who have previously leased their state archives have been relieved of their responsibility for managing them. They have been deprived of all budgetary and staff responsibilities, processing time has increased, dissatisfied paths and many added are now worn out. Adding to the state archives is hardly allowed to receive direct telephone calls or open their own mail, and this is despite the fact that Minister of Culture Linda C. Hofstad Helleland in the Stortinget last April assures the public archives that they will continue to hold their state archives. In its budget statement to the Ministry, no Riksarchiver suggests that the Swedish Archives should save the cost of renting the magazine. She will move out 15 000 shelving meters of archives that make up the population of one of the smaller sites of the Archives, as it says in the recording. Thus, the National Archives leaders seriously propose to delete one or two of the state archives and have government archives without archives, for example. in Kristiansand. How is it possible for a Minister of Culture to let this happen? Norway as a society must afford to preserve its collective memory. Archive material is unique, state archives must still be able to have local guidance function to the public and public authority. They still have to be able to help in a lot of fields within the default. Different instances shall understand local historical material, e.g. in the case of the purchase and sale of property, in the case of disputes or by means of interpretation of Gothic script. The size should therefore intervene. The national archives of the regions should not be centralised, as is everything else under this government. The Swedish Archives is not the private company of the National Archives, it is owned by the State and is intended to serve the needs of society. Reorganising the Archive is not just an internal matter. This is about archive policy. A weakening of the regional level, as is now happening, is a strong weakening of the archival policy in Norway and a slow pulverisation of acquired archival competence and local public services in the state archives. That's why we should get involved. I take up the submitted proposals from the Centre Party and may come back to the changes made from the original proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4682	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4687	First, I would like to thank the representatives of the Central Party for addressing this question. That makes sense to me, not least because our state archives play a central role in taking care of Norwegian history, which is an important part of our common memory, and they provide services that people actually use around. We accept some of the same concerns as that of the Centre and, to the extent that the Labour Party has also expressed them from this point of view, from what I consider to be serious, from questions to serious concerns. At the same time, I must say that one from Stortinget should be very careful to intervene in an ongoing reorganization, a work which at least intends to modernise the archives and make them work even better, and which, as far as I know, has been carried out in consultation with those who join their organizations. The starting point is to get better functioning services. However, we are concerned when we accept a lot of questions, also because a short time ago, as it was mentioned here from the pulpit, the Stortinget made more decisions, and the Council of State came to the Stortinget with important clarifications – among others. that the state archives should be retained, with their own state archives, and that the public archives should be the property of the individual state archives. I think it's going to sit a little bit inside, as the committee says, that the Storting goes into it very directly, but at the same time I have to say that I'm waiting for the post from the state council now, and it seems important that she clears up the process – that it is followed up on what the Storing has said before, and what she has assured the Storing about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4698	The regulatory time for the meeting has now come to an end, and the President proposes that the Storting should continue the meeting until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4703	There has been a broad political consensus that the management of digitally created archives is the biggest archive challenge we have. Migration work in the Archives shall improve the capacity of the Agency to meet the professional challenges it faces. The previous governance structure of the Archives led to unintended geographical differences in resolution and service. There was a parallel build-up of the expertise environment in several state archives, which would be unnecessary waste by scarce means. With the switchover, the department will be able to achieve a coherent, nationwide response and user services, based on the principle of non-discrimination. I Prop. 1 S for 2016–2017, on page 165, I have given the following information about the functions of the state archives in the new organisation: «The archives are the Arkivsverket’s regional workplaces and depositories. All state archives shall provide site-dependent depot functions, user services, local communication and regional cooperation. In addition, individual state archives may be assigned site-independent functions and specialised tasks for the entire department.’ The maintenance of site-dependent depot functions by state archives does not prevent the establishment of a common warehouse or depot for the entire Archives. The Archiving Communication concluded that the development of a central repository for the entire Swedish Archives would be the most cost-effective and socio-economic solution. The size had no comments on it. Nor has the Storting later noted that archive material currently stored in a warehouse in a state archive can be moved to a central depot. I am very concerned about the proposal of the Central Party to ban digitisation and later destruction, especially in view of the promises we have made about setting up a new Tynset archive. Digitisation of paper documents created after 1990, preservation of documents in digital version, and destruction of the original version is uncontroversial. We're talking about completely different needs for archival competence and completely different needs for land if the Center Party gets support for its proposal here today, and that means that at least it's impossible to follow up the decision to start building on the Tynset this summer, as many have foreseen. I assume that everyone understands that the Archives will not, of course, destroy archive material that has historical value. There is also a proposal here on a wide-ranging study of society's archival functions. I just want to stress: we are now following the Storting's request decision to initiate a revision of the archive law. A parallel investigation on the archives of society should therefore not be initiated now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4722	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4727	The representative Bekkewold asked an important question in his speech, and the Council of State was about some of it now. In an answer to written questions from the representative Kjersti Toppe in March, the Council of State writes among others. on the plans for the destruction of paper originals after digitisation: «However, the work of archives will take care of originals of historical value.» I feel that it is the same as what is stated in our remarks and in the revised proposal of the Central Party today, that digitisation is to be done in such a way that historical conservation material is not destroyed. Of course, the working party is not interested in being involved in something that questions the establishment of the health archive on Tynset, but I would like to ask if the Council of State shares the view that the new proposal No. 4 is in line with what the Council of State has said earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4737	I will commend the case rapporteur for a good report, and I will answer the question now, so that there should be no doubt: Paragraph 27 of the Health Archives provides that patient archive material digitised after delivery to Norwegian health archives should normally be discarded. This means that one ensures that archive material delivered to the Swedish Archives Agency cannot be destroyed after digitisation. What the Central Party proposes as a new proposal No. 4, I believe is the same proposal that I commented on earlier, which will require completely different needs for areas and completely different needs for archival competence, and which will be a completely different archive on Tynset than the Stortinge provided, and it will clearly have great consequences for what is planned to be started on Tynset this summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4744	Thanks for the answer. In the new proposal No. 4, which I have in front of me, it says: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that digitisation work in the Swedish Archives is carried out in such a way that historical conservation material is not destroyed even if it is digitised’. I believe that is the same thing as the Council of State has now expressed. But another question: We are aware that the Swedish Archives Agency itself, in its budget application for 2018, is providing signals towards a possible desire to reduce building mass and move archive material. Then is the question of whether the Council of State sees it as relevant at all to liquidate the magazine capacity of some of the existing state archives?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4756	No, basically, we're following up on what we've been saying, given the depot of previous magazines, and we're going to start -- according to the plans -- with what the Storting has foreseen, on Tynset this summer. I can assure the representative that this is the plan. If you want to support the proposal from the Central Party this evening, it will have serious consequences for the plans that are already in place for the construction of archives on Tynset.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4763	The state archives as requested by the Council of State have no budget, no director, no staff. The name is retained to eliminate critical voices, but in reality it is only a workplace. Staff are allocated to different national departments and centralised management sections. The eight state archives have significant activities. The government has presented an unreal, theoretical organisational model, an experiment distant from experience-based knowledge. My question is, Where does the Council of State have the experience that such an organisational model works well?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4768	A short time ago, I had the pleasure of having a conversation with several representatives of the trade unions and employees, who told me that conversion processes are demanding, but now it was absolutely time for a change within the Swedish Archives Agency, as in all other areas of society. Then we're going to have a lot of respect for the fact that it's demanding. We also get a lot of feedback. There are many people who find it difficult, but who say that this is necessary. Then there are a few voices that I know about the Center Party, among other things, have very frequent contact with, and that would like things to be like it has been. I also know that there are people who hesitate to keep it the way it has been. But in order for us to do our job of keeping records, taking care of Norway's history, we had to make changes. It's demanding to stand in it, but I'm absolutely sure the result is going to be very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4775	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4780	Once again, in a line change, you don't feel able to get an answer to that question, and it's quite symptomatic. When one here tries to ask specific questions, one just talks about the central party wanting to keep it the way it is. It's too superficial, because any question requires an answer, also by a government council. What is currently going on are major experiments in the public sector, and now the trip has also come to the Swedish Archives Agency, with a reorganization project no one really sees the consequences of. There is a development following a comprehensive reorganisation of the Arkivsverket from 1 November 2016 that gives rise to concerns. On the new organisation map, the Swedish National Archives and the eight state archives have been erased and replaced by three new professional departments for innovation, management and audience respectively, led by department directors in Oslo. The eight former public archives consist of the name, but the role is reduced to a secondment without professional authority and responsibility, and there is good reason for professionals to ask questions about whether this conversion is suitable for maintaining the public services of state archives. A new scheme, irrespective of geography, based on remote management, is not suitable for meeting regional and local interests. As far as the Swedish Archives Agency is concerned, we are now informed by people employed there that traditional historical and archival positions are less occupied by unemployment, for the benefit of new jobs in, for example, management activities, IT, communication, project development and business architecture. The staff of the State Archives have a unique local competence, which must not be separated from the records on which they are experts. When we see the arguments of the Committee on the proposal of the Centre Party, where one refers to the Council of State, and where it says that the proposal will ‘bring to less uniform services and to geographically specific differences in the follow-up to obligations imposed by law’, which is the strongest argument, I become quite tame. Here we are facing a government institution with a leadership, with a national archives, which has the full opportunity to ensure the necessary coordination of everything. It is very strong that the Council of State in its letter presents the matter in a caricature and does not match reality. This is a very central matter, and it is absolutely necessary to intervene in it and look at it further. Here's something that needs to be followed up after the election, because such a theoretical model won't work. Experience-based knowledge is not at the root.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4789	To continue a little bit on the issue of digitisation, it is of course important that you have good professional reasons for the way in which a digitisation worker works. I know that the Swedish Archives Agency, based on what the Riksrevision now says, has taken better care of the problem of digitisation later on. But as I referred to in the replacement of lines instead, in Document No. 15:853 for 2016-2017, written questions from Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Culture, the Minister for Culture answers: ‘The size is known that the Swedish Archives has had plans for the destruction of paper originals after digitisation. In Report. [[2012-2013]] St. 7 Archives were referred to as the «digitalisation of cassation». In this respect, I would like to point out that the Health Archives Regulation provides that the majority of patient archives are to be destroyed after digitisation in Norwegian health archives. However, the Archives will take care of originals of historical material.’» I see that this is really the same thing as in the new proposal No of the Central Party. 4 and I believe that the new proposal No. 4 differs from what was in the proposal for a representative. That was also the reason why the Labour Party in the Committee chose not to go into the proposal for a representative, but that we have seen that it might be appropriate to support proposal No. 4 now -- I mean there are two different things. It would have been nice if the Council could perhaps look a little closer to the two proposals and give an assessment of that, because I believe that the new proposal No. 4 is completely in line with what the council itself has said and blackened the Storting before, and that it's just an underline of something we agree on. With regard to our proposal for a wide-ranging investigation, we believe that it is in place. We also believe that it is possible to view this as parallel processes, without one stopping the other, because when we agreed to ask for a revision of the archival law, it was also with some assumptions, as indicated earlier, and assurances given by the Council of State that, among other things, government archivists. shall have local management, be responsible for each of its State archives. Then we can see in the process that has been carried out that it is possible to ask questions about the reality of whether this is the case now. That's why we think it's in place to raise some concerns. This is our chance now to bring up something that we think is important to have, both in the further work on archival law and with the archives sector in general in Norway. That's why we're asking for such an investigation. We believe that it should be possible to get — and have two thoughts in mind at the same time — both to revise the archive law and to take a major national debate on the place of the archive sector in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4805	This is important – when the Council of State informs from the Council of State, the Council of State should inform, be clear, and that must be the case. I react very much to a government council that characterises our proposal as that the health archive at Tynset cannot be implemented. The representative of the Workers' Party has taken up and referred from answers to written questions from the Signatories, where the Council of State itself says that material of historical conservation value cannot be destroyed. The letter from the Council of State to the Committee itself also states: ‘I can assure you that the Archives will not destroy older conservation records.’ When our proposal is that we ask for digitisation to be carried out so that historical conservation material is not destroyed even if it is digitised, it is, as I believe, entirely correct and in line with what the Council of State itself has informed us about. But the starting point for the proposal is not Thinset. The starting point for the proposal is that the Riksarchiver has proposed that smaller archives in Norway should lose their archives and that everything should now be destroyed. But that's not how it works, because it still has to be such that historical conservation material has to be stored in an archive. So to our proposal, no. 3, to ‘ensure sufficient local storage capacity by each state archive and that none of the state archives lose their warehouse’. It's a fairly sober proposal. I can't understand why a group of cavers can't join this. We ask that no state archives lose their magazine and that they have sufficient local magazine capacity. I didn't think we should be in such a situation that we had to propose it – that should be obvious. So to proposal No. 2, from us. We don't suggest that one intervene in the conversion process, we don't use that word. Our proposal and wording are very much in line with what was stated in the Archive Communication, and what is stated in the Archive Act – that we should have real state archives, that we should have state archives as a geographical leader, that the State Council itself has promised the Stortinget, and that there should be regional competence and public services. That is what we have been promised before – we propose it again. It should be completely unproblematic for the Storting to join it. We will also support the Labour Party's proposals in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4826	I took the floor because I record that the Minister of Culture has not asked for the floor to answer what Storting needs an answer. It is a rather serious matter when the Council of State claims that proposal No. Four, from the Center Party, will stop the planes at Tynset. I can understand that from the original proposal of the Central Party, which was the basis for this matter. That is what the Central Party itself has taken by promoting an adjusted proposal, which we believe will take account of the progress made on Tynset, but also the need to ensure that what is about historical conservation material. Until the Storting can take a decision on this matter, we need the Council of State to answer whether the claims she makes are that if you adopt proposal No. 4, it will stop the planes at Tynset, result in correctness or not. If necessary, we have to take a break or wait for voting, so that the Council of State can clarify with its people, because we need to have a clarification on this before the Workers' Party can decide whether or not to vote in favour of the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4831	In any case, I think it would turn out to be a majority for the Labour Party's proposal, proposal No. 1, at least I believe that the three proposals of the Central Party belong to such a wide distribution, and I am pleased that the Central Party now says that they support the Workers' Party's proposal, No. 1, in the setting. That's good, because I think we need such a broad review, not least because we – and it's said – also need to focus on private archives. I just want to make it clear from my side that it is not relevant for the Christian People's Party to vote in favour of any of the Senter party's proposals, because I think they belong in such a broad investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4838	Now I don't know what the Central Party has thought from the change in its original proposal, until what they've presented now. Today, however, according to the Health Archives Regulation, patient archive material digitised after delivery to the health archive is normally to be discarded. Of course, what is historically important to take care of is not to be destroyed. That is the way it is today, and that is why I believe that when the Central Party is promoting a proposal, it is because it is an alternative to today's practice. But if it isn't, almost the Center Party must clarify it, because I don't understand the background for promoting a proposal in the Storting that is similar to today's practice. The original proposal for the Central Party was clear that several representatives here in the Chamber were concerned about postponing construction on Tynset. So was I. That is why I made it quite clear to Stortinget in my written reply that a change in the preservation of the type of archive would result in a change in both the area and the archival competence planned in Tynset. But if the Center Party wants to have it the way it already is today, that historical material is of course to be taken care of, but that anything else digitized after delivery to the Health Archives can be discarded, there is no need to worry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4847	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4852	It is quite unlikely to experience that a government council first characterises our proposal as a betrayal of the health archive on Tynset and in the next article says that it is a continuation of today's practice. There's no room at home, and I think it's a pretty clear fix to what we're discussing here today. The reason why we put the proposal in the configuration was that there were questions from the Riksarchiver that they wanted to delete the archive and have an increase in destruction. That is why we are tabling the motion for a resolution. Of course, we should also have had the expression «historical conservation material» at that time. We have never thought that we should take care of everything – of course, newer material should be digitised and destroyed. The new wording is very precise, and he is absolutely necessary because of what is now happening in the Archives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4859	Thank you for the last clarification from the Council of State. The representative Becquerad was also involved in his post; it was also our original thought about this and the original proposal for digitisation, from the Center Party. I believe that, in such a broad investigation as we have proposed, it will also be a topic that can be addressed, discussed, discussed and assessed in a good way – also related to the type of material to be taken care of and what can be discarded. I feel that the Council of State confirms that the last proposal of the Central Party is the same as the current situation, that it is the right one, and that it is thus safe to be in it. However, as the representative, Mr Becquerad, emphasised, it is a subject that may and should be included in such a broad investigation as the Workers' Party has requested and proposed. So in order to remove any uncertainty related to the patient archive on Tynset, we believe that the situation today is that conservation material should be taken care of, but then we do not vote for that proposal here today, and believe that it is something that is taken care of by our proposal, No. 1 and which should be further assessed in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4866	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4882	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a three-line reply be given to the members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4891	The Committee on Family Affairs and Culture will then begin its most recent debate during this major period. It is a good thing to end this ageing period with our committee. It is a matter of VAT compensation for volunteering, and it is a proposal from the Central Party. The proposal is three-thirds. First, full VAT compensation rights will be introduced for non-governmental organisations; secondly, all non-governmental organisations, regardless of their size, will be included in the scheme and thirdly, full compensation for all new-building, maintenance, rehabilitation for construction and construction owned by non-governmental organisations is proposed. What the Central Party is really asking for is the introduction of a rule-based system. There are many parties here on the Stortinget that are in order to introduce a regulated system of VAT compensation, rather than a framework system, as it is today. It is a fact that the VAT scheme is the largest subsidy item in the State budget to a voluntary sector today. It's $13. kr. The system, as it stands today, is unbureaucratic, and it helps to simplify the everyday life of volunteering in Norway. The Christian People's Party nevertheless finds it a little unreasonable that while, for example, Red Cross in Hjartdal has to pay VAT on the purchase of snowmobiles, which are intended to be used for rescue services in the mountains, a trader – a mountain hotel – can go to the purchase of a snowmobile and avoid paying VAT if used for commercial activities. We believe that this represents a significant disadvantage for volunteering. I am very pleased with the work that the Committee has done together, in which a unanimous committee asks the government to strengthen the VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations by means of an escalation plan and the development of the scheme that ensures that the funds benefit voluntary organisations. This is a stepping-up plan that volunteering itself has asked for, so I'm very happy that an overall committee is behind this proposal. I hope that the other parties on the Stortinget, who are not on the committee, will join in, because this is a stepping-up plan that will mean a lot to the volunteer in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4904	The VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations is a very popular scheme. The breakthrough came under the red-green government of 2010. Not only was the scheme extended, it was also stepped up, so that the organisations got more of the VAT expenditure back. Then there was a change of government, and then there was a sudden stoppage. I quote from Freedom Norway's report on the experience of the VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations: ‘From 2014 onwards, the amount of VAT compensation in the State budget has increased significantly from year to year. This has contributed to a significant reduction in the curtailment during the same period.» I refer to the budget position of the Family and Culture Committee for the financial year 2017, where we sent questions to the government about the development of the VAT compensation scheme in recent years. This confirms that the percentage of curtailment has increased in recent years. In 2014, it was at 17.1 p.m., in 2015 at 21.7 p.m., in 2016 it was expected to increase to 23.7 p.m., and now we know that the estimate that the volunteer itself has for 2017 is 27 p.m. Since the Right Party and the Advance Party entered the government offices, the percentage reduction in the VAT compensation scheme has increased dramatically year on year, and the forecasts indicate that it will only continue in the future. I am pleased that the Committee has gathered on a joint proposal for a decision in this matter, where we are talking both about strengthening the VAT compensation system and about developing it, so that we ensure that the funds benefit voluntary organisations. There will be an important work to be done in the future, but at the end of the day it will be about the ability and willingness to give priority to volunteering. The main voluntary scheme is the VAT compensation scheme. Today's government has failed, and if you want to step up that system, we need a government shift to the harvest. At least that's obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4916	Debates in the European Parliament on VAT compensation are a repetition. I can agree that there is an important repetition, because it is justified in a common wish here in the Chamber to remedy the voluntary nature of VAT costs. That's good. I want to make it clear that the arrangement we have today is a negotiated arrangement. It is a system that is simple and unbureaucratic, especially in view of the smaller organizations, so that they can participate without much extra work. It is a large scheme, a comprehensive scheme and a good support system. We must not forget that when we talk about that we would like something more. So I think it's a little strange just directly to propose an extension of the scheme. This will mean that far more people are going to participate in the scheme. There is a great need to increase the framework significantly only in order to maintain the same coverage as at present. I guess that hasn't told the story is easy to do. We have a hairy boundary rise where one is approaching to say that this is going to be a rights-based scheme. If a rights-based scheme is created, there will be a completely different and much more demanding work in organisations, which removes the negotiating mechanism that will make it easier for small organisations. It will challenge border crossings – it will be challenging to see where to set the boundaries. So it's going to put the volunteer in a whole new situation in relation to the system that we've negotiated and that everyone's satisfied with. It's important to think about it. I think it is good that someone has worked well in the committee on these matters. We have worked towards a joint proposal for a decision that makes it clear to me the intention that all the parties have that we should go even further in compensating for the VAT costs of voluntary activity, but that it is important that we do so within the current system. If we're going to start changing it, there's a much more extensive work that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4929	What the Central Party is really asking for through the proposal we are dealing with today is the principle that volunteering should not tax its virtues in a way that neither the public nor commercial interests experience, namely by having to pay VAT. Today's debate is not the first time that the Central Party has allowed Stortinget to develop a new policy in this area. We have repeatedly made concrete proposals for changes to the VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations. Let me take a quick summary: In April 2014, we promoted a Document 8 proposal to include new building, building and refurbishment costs for organizational cultural buildings. The proposal was defeated. That same year, we made a proposal to change the VAT compensation scheme for sports facilities by giving it the right regime. That's exactly what's necessary in this area. When voluntary payments were made, half-winners asked the government to assess such VAT compensation. Unfortunately, the government’s response to the case was negative in 2016. So the store has had plenty of opportunities to bring this matter forward, but unfortunately the matter is on site resting. But if the majority really had an intention to improve the framework conditions for the voluntary sector, why have not the parties at least been able to contribute to the confirmation of an objective in this matter? Why is it not possible for the other batches to try both to improve the model and to impose restrictions to prevent any undesirable effects? The centre party cannot understand this differently than that this is not a matter that is high enough on the priority lists of the parties. Instead, sports teams, food associations, 4H clubs, music clubs, the Red Cross, Norwegian People's Aid, etc. are at risk. continue to shorten their VAT compensation and a high degree of uncertainty relating to their activities. Once again, the government — with the majority of the population on the ground — is drifting away into acuteities and unexplained definitions of questions to be investigated further. But these questions could of course have been further investigated even if the Storting had agreed on the goal that the Center Party is addressing today. However, let me express my thanks to the representative, Mr Jørgen Bekkevold, who, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, has a note in the vote leading up to the proposal for a decision on which the Committee has agreed. That's a good comment. But when that is said, the Central Party's concern is that the proposal for a decision of the Committee only means sending the matter out to a new stage in the desert migration it has now been on for over several years. I'll bring this up with the proposals from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4946	The representative Marit Arnstad then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4951	In a sense, a person can almost say that volunteering is at the heart of what Norwegian society is like. Very much of what is the public sector has begun as a voluntary activity. Very much of what is big business has also started from people who have started in the voluntary, in the small. Volunteership plays an amazing central role in Norway. One meets many people who believe that because Norway is a society with a strong state, with extensive public sector, we have little volunteer. But we have more voluntary efforts, more hard work than almost any other country in the Western world. What I deeply believe is that this proposal is about, is to take a step towards a situation where we treat volunteering with industry and the public sector, which I think would be natural. Hence, SV to support the proposal No. 1 and 3 from the Center Party. That's because we've had over time in our programme, and have put into our budgets, a stepping up towards full equal treatment. We do not understand it this way when we now support that proposal, that the money should be paid overnight, in the revision process tomorrow. We understand it as if the Stortinget decided that we should now go that way. It's realistic to do, for example: over a four-year period, and in connection with the budget for both this year and last year, SV was the party which included the largest proposal for the pledges in its alternative state budget. With a rise over a four-year period, it's possible to do it so that we get to the goal. It will be a significant bet, but fully realistic. The experience is that this tends to be a repetition of cultural debates, voluntary debates and election campaigns: that everyone is very much for it then. But it requires the Storting to decide at some point that now we see it as a goal and go in that direction. So it could be, as the proposal says, a ‘justice-based’ system. That's the argument for that. There are also arguments for a framework-based scheme. But more important than what kind of system you have, it's that you add enough resources to get there and that there's a system that treats you in a non-discriminatory way. We will also support proposal No. 3, to ‘ensure full compensation for all new building, maintenance and rehabilitation expenses’, etc. I want to make it clear that we are doing it, even if it says “organisational side”. I mean, there doesn't have to be any limit to that. It should be linked to cultural and voluntary activities, which are the framework. Let me then use my last few seconds to thank you for the cooperation on cultural, voluntary and media matters in the Culture Committee. Sometimes it's a party. It hasn't been a party at times, but I don't need to dwell on it now. It has been a great pleasure working with you on a lot of exciting things in the last period – before I now withdraw from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4968	I almost thought I would start by giving Bård Vegar Solhjell applause, but it would be a little wrong to do so. It's an important matter for treatment in Stortinget tonight, and I'm glad that the Stortinge discusses how we can make the volunteer better. The VAT scheme for non-governmental organisations is the largest voluntary sector subsidy scheme in the State budget ever and is currently at 1.3 billion. kr. Last week we had a recording conference with the volunteer, the start-up seminar for the new volunteer message. Although there are major challenges to making volunteering even better, it is very good to hear that volunteering is happy that we in Norway have rustling arrangements. We have authorities that facilitate voluntary work throughout the country, every single day. The VAT compensation scheme is a central instrument in the government’s voluntary policy. It's still going to be. The scheme benefits the entire volunteer. It is important for both small and large organisations and helps to stimulate greater volunteering. There are almost 23 000 teams and organisations that get funds from the scheme, and what volunteering expresses is that they like the scheme because it's simple. It is unbureaucratic, no reporting is required on the use of funds, and the current system is particularly adapted to the small organisations and teams that do not have administrative resources. They are especially pleased that the scheme is the way it is. This means that the VAT compensation scheme helps organisations to prioritise activity rather than paperwork. Not least, the funds are also free, and that means that the funds can be used freely in the non-profit-based part of the business, and we still have to take care of that. The evaluation of the VAT compensation scheme shows that it reaches the full voluntary nature of the scheme. However, in such a large scheme as the VAT compensation scheme, it is natural to carry out regular reviews to ensure that the intention of the scheme is met. It's the work that's going on. In terms of volunteering, of course, we will now go through all the arrangements and look at how we can make even more progress than we do today in order for us to have a volunteer that works well across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4983	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4988	I notice what the Minister for Culture says about the importance of the VAT compensation scheme. Then it's strange that you've almost deliberately stepped down the system by increasing the percentage abbreviation year by year, probably from 17.1 pst. in 2014 to 27 p.m. in 2018 – a difference of 10 percentage points. Then it continues to decline: if the government gets what it wants, there will only be half of the organizations left in VAT expenditure within eight years. When the Council of State itself stresses the importance of this scheme in the form of free resources and ensuring that organisations can concentrate on activity rather than application lettering, why has the Council of State systematically contributed to the percentage of curtailment increasing year by year?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4994	The representative says we've reduced the appropriations. We haven't. We've increased the scheme by 350 million. kr during this period. That's a lot of money. That's why I now see a total of 1.3 billion. kr. There is one answer to the fact that the curtailment has increased, and in particular because there are now many more organisations receiving compensation. It must also take into account the Storting if you want to spread the scheme so that many more organisations than today receive funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e4999	I did not say that the allocation has gone down, I said that the abbreviation has increased year after year. This is what is important for organisations – whether they are reclaimed the VAT expenditure they have, which is the purpose of the scheme. During the red-green government, the scheme was set at a strong year-on-year rate, which ensured that the curtailment went down, and that the organisations were getting more and more for the VAT expenses they have. But then there was an abrupt stop under this government. There the government has failed the volunteer. The government itself says that the scheme is very important, and volunteering says it is their most important issue. Why, then, is the Council so unwilling to contribute to the continued reduction of the curtailment so that organisations can have better predictability and to ensure that the focus is on activity rather than application lettering?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5004	I think there's a lot of things we can do to further strengthen volunteering. One thing is this system, which I think is important, because it's simple and unbureaucratic, and it helps the small organizations in particular. When it comes to funding issues, of course, I have to get back to it in the state budget. I believe it is important to maintain this system, so that the organisations are free of funds and are themselves able to give priority to how to use the funds. Then it is also important that we start with other measures. That's why I'm very happy that we're now starting volunteering. It's been many years since a volunteer message was made. We see that there is a particular need to recruit young people and more seniors into volunteering and to ensure that volunteering across the country has good opportunities to contribute to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5011	There's a lot of nice words about what to do for volunteering, but it doesn't help as long as you're not willing to do anything about what's actually a taxing of hard work. It is not the case that there will be less free resources for organisations and the voluntary nature of a modified VAT compensation scheme. But there will be less uncertainty. Suffering from increased appropriations has also increased the percentage of curtailment, and many organisations live in great uncertainty from one year to another when building a facility. So I think the Council of State should be a little careful about pushing volunteer ahead and giving the impression that they're satisfied, because they're far from satisfied with the abbreviation we've seen in recent years. When you build a gym in Vuku on hard work from the locals and have to live for a year with the uncertainty of 70 pst. or 80 pst. which is covered by the VAT compensation scheme because the percentage reduction is either 30 pst. Or 20 pst., it's clear that it's a big problem. Does not the Council of State appreciate this – that it is difficult and that it creates uncertainty for voluntary organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5018	Now I Googled the ‘ruled VAT compensation scheme’ before I went into the debate today. Then I saw from several national meetings, and that while you have been in opposition, there are many who have arranged for the system to be governed. What I'm concerned about is that we actually make sure that volunteering is compensated. That's why I'm very happy that in this period we've increased the order by 350 million. kr. I'm glad we've got almost 100 pst. granting of compensation. I see, of course, that we can fill up a lot more money – we can do that. But we have to get back to that in the state budget. The most important thing is to have a voluntary policy that builds up below and provides a powerful opportunity for the volunteer to contribute to the community around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5023	So the line change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5030	When I heard the lines from the Labour Party, I would have believed and expected that they could support our proposals in the Chamber today. Otherwise, in this case, I also respond to the Council's response in the setting, where it proposes to change the value-added compensation scheme in order to provide full compensation for voluntary organisations. It is rejected by demonstrating that a framework scheme will give the State full control of the costs of the scheme. That's the way it is if it's the goal, but volunteering gets insecurity, and then one more thing about taxing hard work for volunteering in Norway. Greater value added tax compensation for both construction and investment in sports facilities and for goods and services will still depend on the framework and risks being curtailed if the annual fees are not large enough. So to the proposal to ensure full compensation for all expenses associated with new buildings, maintenance and rehabilitation of organisational property. That proposal is also rejected. We are shown to be missing a complete overview of the number of buildings and installations owned by voluntary organisations. It is argued that it is difficult to see the consequences of the proposal, and it could also go beyond the purpose of activity, as stated in the response of the Council of State. It also states that the scheme will only benefit large organisations, which could increase the difference between large and small organisations. It's quite alarming that the Council of State uses all these arguments. Of course, providing compensation for organizationally owned cultural buildings, new buildings and rehabilitation will not only benefit the large ones. There are many small organizational cultural buildings and warehouses that will benefit greatly from this. Of course, it would not go beyond the purpose of activity. It's the opposite. This would allow voluntary teams to use their resources and effort to create activity in their house. That there is a lack of an overview of how many cultural buildings and installations there are, yes, there may be a problem, but there is a luxury problem. You can start a mapping if that's what you're about to do. But otherwise one can at least expand the arrangement we have today, so that we get an equality between sports facilities and the many important cultural houses we have around in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5041	First of all, to the proposal of the unanimous committee, which requires the strengthening of the VAT compensation scheme for voluntary organisations through a stepping-up plan, and the development of the mechanism to ensure that the funds benefit voluntary organisations. First of all, the obligator is in the form that we're going to have an escalation. We are going to reverse the negative trend that has come under the Right Party regime, and we need to start a step up that will ensure that the volunteer regains more of what it pays in VAT. Then there's another element in it, that's part 2, the development of the system that ensures that the funds go to the benefit of volunteer-based organisations. If that review is carried out, it will in itself help to make it easier to get up to 100 p.m., for today there are organisations receiving grants from the scheme that are not necessarily based on voluntary activity. If you do such a review, you will get up to 100 pst faster. But there is a commitment in the decision that is being made today. As I was in a previous post, it is the will to actually prioritize the field that determines this question. Now this is the last debate of the Culture Committee with the Minister of Culture, and the story written by the Right in the Ministry of Culture is the story of broken promises and reduced ambitions. This applies to the whole field of culture, but we see it very clearly in the field of volunteering that we are discussing today. There was no way of how high and dark the Right was before the previous decision to increase VAT compensation, simplification of the voluntary nature and strengthening of the funds. But the result after four years is frustration in volunteering, both over the lack of progress in the area of simplification, over the lack of willingness of the government to bet on child and youth freedom, and over the ever-increasing shortening of the VAT compensation system. That's what I think is sad, but I look forward to a government shift to the fall, so we can once again launch a stepping-up plan for volunteering and ensure that volunteering can do the job it wants to do, be free and have broad activity across the country, for the benefit of the people, rather than making applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5052	First a little correction, which we were fortunately made aware of when the representative Arnstad referred to the Christian People's Party's remark in advance of the common proposal that exists. It's become a mistake. There should be a committee comment, but the comment was referred to as good, so we take it to ourselves, all in the committee, for this was agreed upon. That's what ended up in the joint proposal. I took the floor because – as the last speaker said – this is the last debate in our committee during this great period. I want to thank you for this debate, and I want to thank the Council of State for cooperation and debate. We have had many demanding issues from the Ministry of Culture, and we have tried to deliver them. There was one thing we had to postpone to the next round. It was the copyright. We think that's right. The Committee agreed to do so. Otherwise, we have had good cooperation on many important issues. Then I want to thank the Cooperation Committee. We have raised culture in debates throughout the country. We've been engaged. It's important. And we're going to keep doing that. Thanks for the cooperation, and I promise to practice a lot on the tuba this summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5061	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5078	Case No. 4 on the agenda for a programme for technology development in the water sector. There is a proposal from a majority of the committee in the motion for a resolution. After listening carefully to the debate, on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party, I would like to inform you that both the Right and the Advance Party want to vote for you in the vote. Probably, then, it could be a unanimous decision. Since there have been so many others here who have sent greetings in connection with their last post, I will also do so, and I will do so through an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5085	Here we accept greetings if they come in one post or the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5103	The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5131	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked immediately to ensure that the criteria for the selection of asylum-seekers reflect the criteria for the establishment of asylum-seekers.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the criteria for the establishment of tenders should focus on the ability of operators to work with the community and with habitable work.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5172	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5200	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by André N. Skkelstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by André N. Skelstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Left and Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to draw up new instructions for the practice of Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act, cf. the foreign policy § 8-8. New instructions need to include vulnerability criteria to be taken into account when dealing with the cases of single minor asylum seekers. Single minor asylum seekers who lack networks and/or resources to manage in the return area shall not be allowed temporary residence.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5234	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose the necessary amendments to bring the Norwegian system of reception for lone minor asylum seekers into line with the obligations of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as demonstrated by the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights in its Annual Report to the Stortinget, and to ensure that children who are asylum seekers have an equivalent offer compared to other children subject to the care of the State.’ The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Greens have announced support for proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5253	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal 2 reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose to introduce a condition that it must be reasonable to refer a person to receive protection in parts of the country of origin other than the territory from which the applicant has fled.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5272	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal 3 reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose that single minor asylum seekers over the age of 15 also be included in the Child Protection Act and fall under the care of child protection.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5293	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal 1 reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to adopt a regulation laying down the offer to single minor asylum seekers living in the reception of asylum. The regulation must provide for adequate manpower, competence, housing standards and resources for environmental work.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5339	The right hand side and the progress bar have been notified that they now support this setting. Then the President has reason to believe that the vote will be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5366	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5467	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Centre Party; There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a plan for the State’s contribution to the national cultural historical values of Kjeller in an appropriate way.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to put forward a case for a permanent solution for small-scale air traffic in the Oslo area. Until such time as such a plan is in place, the government must contribute to the completion of at least 1000 metres of the day’s runway at Kjeller.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e5498	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that, in line with the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee’s leadership in the management of the Defence’s long-term plan (Untilst. 62 S [[2016-2017]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e6086	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Lundtägen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf It is voted on by the Central Party and the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The President of the Grand Duchy does not have the confidence of the Grand Duchy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e6173	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e6201	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left. We are voting on the proposal. Publisher sounds: ‘The decision asks the government to consider removing the seller’s right to remedy defects under the provisions of § 4-10 of the Disposal Act and to propose this to the Stortinget.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e6218	The proposal of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left parties was approved by 54 votes to 47. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 23.24.22]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e6279	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals were put forward by Mr Mandt on behalf of the Labour Party. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1-4, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the follow-up in the rehabilitation phase of persons exposed to violence in close relations, as stated. crisis centrelova § 2(d).’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure increased supervision of local authorities’ compliance with their obligations under crisis law § 2(d).’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for Nav’s priority to facilitate the rapid entry into service of persons exposed to violence in close relationships without work, so that they can quickly become economically independent.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the municipalities ensure that those who break out of violent life have access to temporary housing or help to provide housing, so that they have a real alternative to staying with, or moving back to, a violent partner.’ The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e6315	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the best interests of children and the individual rights of children are respected in the follow-up of the victim of violence in the rehabilitation phase.’ The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e6344	The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e6373	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the strengthening of non-profit institutions serving child protection services by the termination of tendering procedures and the replacement of contracts by extended self-regulation or other long-term and stable forms of contract.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that actors receiving government grants for the operation of child protection measures have pay, employment and pension conditions in line with those in public action.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e6399	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals to ensure that government grants benefit the child-restraint children by requiring the child-restraint institutions to comply with rules similar to those of the law on free school § 6-3, first paragraph, points (a) and (b).’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e6434	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, on behalf of Lasse Juliussen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 2-4, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure the real strengthening of the state archives with state archives as local, geographical leader, as well as ensuring the regional competences and public services of the state archives, and to submit an appropriate case to the Stortinget in this respect.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure adequate local storage capacity at each state archive and that none of the state archives lose their warehouse.’ The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e6467	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that digitisation work in the Swedish Archives is carried out in such a way that historical conservation material is not destroyed even if it is digitised’. The Left and the Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e6486	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a wide-ranging investigation into society’s archive functions, with particular emphasis on regional archive services, national interaction and digital challenges management.’ The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e6521	In the course of the debate, three proposals have been put forward, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Central Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to extend VAT compensation schemes so that all organisations, regardless of their size, are included in the scheme.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e6542	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 3 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the VAT compensation schemes with a view to entitlement to full VAT compensation for non-governmental organisations.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to ensure full compensation for all new-building, maintenance and rehabilitation costs for organisational buildings and installations.’ The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e6576	The Left and the Greens have announced their support for the vote. The Central Party and the Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension. Then the President has reason to believe that the recommendation will be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-20.ana.ud15e6609	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
