ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e28	Two permit applications are available: from the Left-wing Group on the welfare permit of the representative Ketil Kjenseth from 16 January to 19 January from the representative, Mr Jørgen Bekkewold, on leave from 15 January to 18 January to attend the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Brussels and Geneva These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the State of Oppland, Ingerd Thon Hagaseth, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the permission of the representative Ketil Kjenseth for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Uppland County: day Helge Frøisland 16-19. January For Telemark County: Hanne Thürmer 17-18. January
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e77	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e82	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself, to propose measures to strengthen the emergency medical supply outside hospitals, including medical services and ambulances.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e87	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e103	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative of Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e112	This is the first Question Time in 2017, so we get to want the Prime Minister and the country a good new year. The Prime Minister starts the year by saying that Norway is being talked down. It doesn't sound so good. The background to this appointment is that the Labour Party has indicated that the unemployment rate has increased over time. From the Right-Forward Party government took over, unemployment increased by about 40 pst. Now we have higher unemployment than they do in Germany and the United States. Also, no jobs are created in the private sector. In fact, there are 17 000 fewer jobs in the private sector now compared to what it was like two years ago. Norway was on top in terms of the percentage of employment, but since 2013, we have had a clear decline, and now we have passed by countries like Sweden, Denmark and Germany. The government itself has consistently been left behind, and the unemployment rate has been allowed to keep going at a high-record level. It is confronted with these realities that the Prime Minister says a talking Norway down. When she herself was in opposition, she said right enough that she was not so pompous that critical questions were like talking Norway down. It has been clearly after nearly four years as prime minister. The government has consistently blocked its predictions about how it will go. At all intersections, they underestimated development. They promised a growth that didn't come. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister if she agrees that we better solve these problems if we put aside wishful thinking and stick to what is said clearly, or if it is so that she still thinks that those who point out open challenges are talking down Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e123	I want to send back the nice greeting in a year. I hear that not everything is going to be new in the argument, but I hope it will be a good year for it. Let me start with the obvious, that Tajik's representative has not been present when the statement fell, when I answered questions from the programme manager about talking Norway down. She may not have been present, because the premise for the whole question is wrong. The discussion was not about leave, the discussion was about moving the elite and the people's discussion from abroad, from Brexit, from Trump, into the Norwegian context. It was self - fulfilling prophecy. For one who at any rate has intermediate subjects in sociology, self-fulfilling prophecies are part of the clear basis of social sciences. You can talk to problems. You can talk about people feeling that challenges also exist in our country. So it wasn't about unemployment, it was about inequality. There were questions about Norway having the same elite and its distance, which was the background for the discussion. I believe it is dangerous for Norway to take debates from other countries, where income trends for large parts of the population have been still for decades, and to transfer it to Norwegian society, where we have actually had a much more even income development, from a society that does not expect everyone to have access to school, to a society where at least this government is highly committed to providing a quality school. That was the starting point for the question: Can we get self-fulfilling prophecies? I think the left side in Norway contributes by pretending that Norway is the United States, or in other debates Sweden or, for example, Sweden. The United Kingdom, to create a picture of Norway that does not match reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e132	I don't recognize myself in what the Prime Minister says that the left is trying to create a picture of Norway like the United States or Sweden. What can be documented, however, is that the Prime Minister and the Right and the Progress Party have been trying to talk away from the unemployment that Norway has now been in for quite many years – a high-recorded unemployment. In May 2015, the government concluded that there was no package of measures to tackle unemployment. In April last year, at the national meeting of the Right, the Prime Minister himself said that economic policy now seems strong in order to get unemployment back. Last October, the Minister of Finance said that the unemployment rate had been reached, but in the West, unemployment is still increasing. In Rome we received figures that show that she is increasing most in Hordaland, the home state of the Prime Minister. There it is 15 pst. more unemployed during the last year. So far, the Prime Minister and the government have said that this is going to take place over time. My question to the Prime Minister is, What will she say to the unemployed now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e141	We may find that the starting point for the question to the representative Tajik was wrong. I understand that you take it inwards in the follow-up question. That's fine, because then we can start a discussion about what are the unemployment challenges in Norway. Yes, we have unemployment challenges. I say to all those who are unemployed, that I understand that this is a difficult situation. That's why this government is working so actively to get the new jobs. But to think that in a country that has lost between 30,000 and 40,000 jobs in what has been Norway's leading job and growth engine in the last ten years, namely the oil sector – because we have twice fallen in the oil price – we have had a completely different type of structure and a completely different type of change. Taking into account that we have had the biggest shock in the Norwegian economy at a time when the oil economy was bigger than ever, I think the Workers' Party should be founded. This government is actively working to combat unemployment. It shows the entire budget, and it also shows progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e152	Follow-up questions are given – first Marianne Marthinsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e157	There is no one like Norway as the United States, but it would be quite surprising if we did not have a debate in the Norwegian Parliament and in the Norwegian public about the unemployment situation and about increasing inequality as a direct result of the unemployment situation. What action does it take? What measures are not working? Is the government taking the right steps? There are quite obvious questions to ask, in a situation where all job growth in Norway has occurred in general government seven quarters in a row. It is not to talk Norway down, it is to take a situation of record unemployment seriously. In the 1990s, we also had a situation of high unemployment. At that time it was at the top of the political agenda. We got the Employment Commission, we had the solidarity option, we had KAJA funds to give young people access to the labour market. Now, when the Prime Minister is so unwilling to enter into a discussion, is it about her feeling completely confident that all the stones have been turned around and all the effective measures have been taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e166	I believe that we should always look for new good measures, and the government does. That is why we have launched many important, large-scale actions. We have a very high level of activity in the public sector. It also tends to criticize us by the representative Marthinen, because we spend more oil money in a crisis time than we would otherwise use. But that's right. That is why we have a package of measures with targeted measures for the regions and sectors most affected by the conversion. But we also have a long-term transformation of the Norwegian economy. The long-term transition is that we were probably at the top of the activity contribution of the oil and gas industries to the Norwegian economy in 2013–2014. That's why this government – from day one – is working so systematically to make sure that everything about innovation and innovation is lifted, to contribute to the long-term job that we need to get more legs on. There we see a lot of new companies. We see records in the research activities of the companies and records in the company, but it takes longer. In the meantime, we stimulate high activity to ensure that there is as much as possible to get a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e175	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e180	Work is about dignity. Work is about belonging to. Work is about society needing one. Unemployment is high. The Prime Minister was at the Sola meeting on Monday and met the Nav Director in Rogaland, who sent a great deal of concern especially to them for less than 30 years. In addition, he had a message, and it was that those who are struggling with health challenges also have a challenge of entering the labour market as it is. Outdoors create easy aggression and can also produce extremism in the short term, but even more in the long term. What will the Prime Minister and the Government do for exactly these two groups – those who are young, and those who have a health challenge – that are at the back of the queue now in the working situation that is, and for which it may have the greatest impact if they are unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e190	I fully agree that work is more than picking up an income. Work is a place where many people get confirmation and get social networking. Losing work is more than just losing income. It's also important to be aware of that. Especially for those who have been away from work for a long time, it is also perceived as a social challenge. There is also a psychological challenge for many, because work is so valuable to the individual. Therefore, it is important that we have targeted measures against young people outside the labour market. We have done much of that – we have targeted many of the actions against young people under 30 years of age. A more active follow-up of the youngest, ensuring that they are refilled at school and the possibility of completing education are among the important measures. Having an activity obligation, introduced from 1 January of this year, means that if you get into a passive state, you have to meet actively further. For those who have health challenges, I think we have a lot to pick up in the interaction between treatment and work, on which we try out a lot of projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e199	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e204	The unemployment rate is high, and many people experience being free for a long time. The government is talking about change and new jobs, but it's hard to make progress in creating the new jobs. In a number of areas, processes are in progress, but we see little results. We expect, for example, from the Business Committee. both on an industry message and on a travel life message. In the wait period, we treat a forest message, which definitely does not respond to the challenges faced by the forest and wood industries. But one concrete proposal that I want to challenge is the establishment of Renewable AS. This will give jobs to the operation of the fund, but not least through the investments made by the fund. I noticed that there was a discussion about location, and I noticed that this was agreed by Stortinget autumn 2015. It's still not in place. So my question is, can the Prime Minister guarantee that this will not be further postponed due to a discussion about where to locate it, and when can we expect that renewable AS is established?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e211	Just before Christmas, Stortinget adopted the budget. In that, the establishment of Renewable AS is cleared. There are framework conditions for its functioning and legislative and mandates. I'm glad we're in place. I hope that I and the representative Pollestad agree that the most important thing for the Norwegian economy is not the location and the jobs we create to manage it, but in fact the powerful tool this should be. I am pleased that, in cooperation with the parties on Stortinget, with which we had budgetary settlements in both 2015 and 2016, we have created a good framework for this. Then we've said that we want a good discussion about where we get the best effect of this fund and not least the best management environments. We're going through that now, and we're going to make a decision based on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e218	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e223	The unemployment rate in Norway is too high, or, as the Prime Minister said in his reply, ‘Yes, we have unemployment challenges’. Automation and technological innovation mean that in the next decades we will see old jobs disappear and new ones become established. A study from 2015 shows that as many as 33 pst. of today's jobs may disappear as a result of automation by 2035. At the same time, a study by the Technology Council, called ‘Made in Norway’, has made it clear that the future Norwegian labour market will be characterised by a high pace of development and a demand for constant change and training. The current legislation allows those who lose the job to combine daily pay with education for up to three months. It's hard to see that it provides sufficient flexibility to meet the challenges that are here and that will reinforce themselves. Is the Prime Minister willing to look at proposals that will make it easier to combine further education and training with day-to-day money?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e232	We should always be open to proposals that help us to achieve the two objectives that are important, and it is that we raise the skills of those who are unemployed, but at the same time that they are available for the labour market. It is important that people get into work, and that there is a fair and fair experience among those who are full-time students and take education, who have financed it themselves, and those who, if necessary, are given the opportunity to do so by having a daily allowance for living. The two things we have to have a fair fit between. So it's important to say that just the big issues of digitisation and other things, it's important that we work with businesses, and on some of what we've increased, are corporate training resources, and where we're actively working with companies to get them, because they have to look at how to develop new business models, and new skills needs that are in companies, and they're raising employees. If not, the big technology change ahead of us means that we have to replace who works in some companies, just because the skills gap gets too big. That's why part of the instruments we have from labour market policy, without people becoming unemployed, are also incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e239	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e244	The Prime Minister said that you can talk to problems, and that gives her own government glittering illustrations all the time. But you can't necessarily talk out of problems, and the prevailing unemployment in Norway is something the government primarily meets with talking, with rhetoric, with self-confidence and not with sufficient action. At the beginning of this period, the government mantra was that the cuts in property taxes and inheritance taxes would create more activity in the private sector and create more private jobs. However, the private job creation in Norway has stopped completely. Now the right informs me that they will not prioritize large tax cuts in the next period, and then I am a little confused. Doesn't Right anymore mean that tax cuts are the right medicine to create jobs? Has the Right perhaps realised that the greatest single priority for job creation in Norway in the last period, namely the cuts in the taxes on wealth, is completely unsuccessful?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e251	It is the case that job creation in Norway has not stopped. Private jobs are created every day in Norway, but we have lost between 30 000 and 40 000 jobs in the private sector related to the oil and gas industry. At the same time, employment has remained roughly stable, and that means that jobs are created in the private sector, but not so quickly that a person is able to meet the needs that are increasing in the population because there are more people coming into the labour market, rather than enough to fill the lost jobs. Creating new jobs is a demanding and long-term job, and it is not done by politicians, it is done by forward-looking people, it is done by people who are willing to invest in those jobs, and it is therefore framework conditions linked to investing. Having a good idea may mean that it takes four to five years from starting that business, until you really see that it gives a lot of new jobs in the future, but in that period you have to have capital to invest, to expand. It's very strange that all of these that create businesses say that the wealth tax is a burden. SV and the Working Party say it's not. I believe mostly in those who have their shoes on and who know where the loads are.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e256	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e262	At first, it might be tempting to say that the signals that came from the Right Programme Committee on Tax, I thought, were very interesting. I can leave it alone. We know that just before Christmas, 22 December, a decision was taken in the Ministry of Climate and Environment that has put a lot of sense into cooking. Ulf is a sensitive topic – if the Prime Minister wasn't aware of it before, she's probably now. We all know that the wolf settlement that was concluded here on the house before the summer, is a rather fine deal, because it is well known that there were lots that would go both shorter and longer than that agreement actually represents. The problem with the decision taken by the Ministry of Climate and Environment is that it significantly reflects the balance that this agreement actually represents. In sum, it could well be said that in assessing the damage and the potential extent of damage represented by the wolf, a threshold has been set at which the settlement would hardly have been concluded in the same way if it had been phased in. My question to the Prime Minister is, how will the government now restore the balance that the wolf settlement represents?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e271	First of all, I want to say that there is nothing new for me that the wolf is explosive in Norway. I've been a politician for a long time, I've also negotiated the previous predatory settlement on behalf of the Right here in the Storting, and I know that this is demanding. It's difficult, and it's especially demanding for those who live in the area where we have a wolf zone today, because that's where the load is absolutely highest. They are taking a load on behalf of the big community to keep and maintain a wolf tribe in Norway, too, in line with the obligations we have with the Bern Convention. I have a great deal of understanding of that burden and of the fact that they felt this decision as very difficult. The challenge with the decision and in particular the situation we are in is that this is based on how to interpret the space of action within the law that is and the convention we have. This means that there is a challenge today between Storting’s stock goals, the law’s design and the interpretation contained in Norwegian law related to these issues. Then there are two ways to go. One is to better document the damage potential. That is what the government has started with when, among other things, the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment is reaching. have started work on radiolabelling, as information and knowledge on e.g. the information on areas where there is a lot of wolf, that some of the wolf flocks behave differently from before, and that there is a basis for other parts of the law to allow them to enter and take out more wolves. The second is to look at how we can get the law, the convention interpretation and the decision in Stortinget to connect better. What we're doing now is going through both of these tracks to make sure that the will of the Greatness can be realized through the decision last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e282	I am pleased that the Prime Minister stresses that it is the will of the Stortinge to be carried out. When she says that she is aware that this matter has explosive power, I believe her, but it is then very special that the four parties that are behind the conciliation, do not hear a crack from the government from the settlement was concluded and until the decision is reached. It is a procedure that is not anti-conflict, to say it very carefully. I think the Prime Minister's into something, there's something about the interpretation that gives a room for action, but where the government has painted itself into a corner, and it's hard to paint out of the corner you've painted yourself into. But we are ready to speak to the Prime Minister. I just want an assurance that you now do what you can, even legally, to make sure that what is a broken settlement can actually be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e287	The Minister for Climate and Environment has announced that he wants to explain this issue to Stortinget. And then you might be able to get a little bit further into the details about it. You can discuss the question of how much better you should have been informed on Stortinget. Some of the conflict area has been answered to Stortingen on several issues, but also in the context of the case. But I think it's important that we come back to those questions. Now this is not just a question of government interpretation. It is, in fact, the Legal Department’s interpretation of the whole complex, where the damage potential of both the Ministry of Agriculture, the Directorate-General for the Environment and the Ministry of Climate and Environment have been presented to the Legal Department and evaluated. What we're saying is that in the short term, better documentation is the fastest thing to do. It's more wolf today than it was historical. That means there may be room through that documentation for more. In addition, we have to take the second race, which is about aligning the law and interpreting it, and the Berne Convention, and then we also look at what is happening in other countries, for example. in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e294	Follow-up questions are given – first Rigmor Andersen Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e299	In the wolf settlement last year, we agreed that regional administration should have the power to take decisions on killing when the wolf population is within the stock target. We also agreed to continue the principle that it is only central authorities that can take decisions on killing when the stock is below the stock target. In view of the legal interpretation the government is now considering, there is reason to ask the Prime Minister: does not much of the balance of the settlement disappear by the fact that the possibility of take-off of wolves once the stock target has been reached becomes so severely limited?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e304	Well, it's true that part of what's reconciled in the Storting is difficult to implement in areas that are wolf zone. It is not difficult to implement in the areas designated for grazing animals and other animals, because that is where you take out 15 wolves as a result of the decisions taken. But this has to do with the wolf settlement and the law not meeting completely, and that's a bit of the challenge associated with this. And even though we've been exponents here -- I worked hard to get local government when we had the broad predator deal in 2011-2012 -- it's like the appeal is in the law. Then the department has to decide on the anchors, and then it has to make it up to the law that exists. Once, since Norway was assembled, and after a hundred years of Viking activity, it was assumed in Norway that ‘by law, the country will be built’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e309	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e314	As for the agreement on wolves that were concluded last June, I believe that the key word for all those who were involved in the conciliation was that we should achieve a situation in which a dampened a progressive conflict. With the seriousness of the starting point and the discussion that has arisen, there is every reason to dwell a little bit on the information given. It is stated in the Communication that there may be some problems, but through the debate and through the fact that the government is actually initiating the implementation of the Storting decision – triggering the statesmen and launching the regional predators – it is quite obvious that the starting point is to follow it. No notification is given that this is not feasible. On the contrary, it runs until 22 December without any information that it is not possible to implement, and then you get a clear rejection of the possibility to implement it. I assume and ask for confirmation from the Prime Minister that the State Council of Helgesen will come to the Stortingen to explain the majority decision of the Stortingen and its fulfilment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e319	I believe that the Storting must deal with the statement when the statement comes. Our starting point is that the government has wanted a loyal follow-up to what has been the will of the Storting, but it has been pointed out that there has been a conflict between stock goals and facts about what is a legal basis for taking out of the wolf. In general, the law says that predators should be taken out, it says in the big message, and there are also some answers that have been given to big business representatives who have asked questions during this time. But also we as the government had as a starting point and thought it was possible to implement this within the law. That is why we ask for legal advice when we get up the counter-representations in the complaint handling process, that this will not be fulfilled. This is when we get a very clear advice saying that the framework for implementing this legal framework is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e324	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e330	What is clear in this matter is that the government has chosen to put an opinion from the Legal Service before a parliamentary conciliation – before the adoption of a majority in the UK. It is also the case that it is not just an opinion, but it is an opinion where the Law Department has made reservations. It is not often they do, but they have done so in this case. The wolf question is a question that has been discussed and explored over many years. We couldn't set a stock target until the summer, but then it was set, and that's the stock target the government is now jumping from. The most important thing is that we are far above the stock target that is set and that one should thus take out wolves. Then one comes up with a new argument concerning the potential for damage. It's provocative enough for those who live in the wolf zone to hear that argument. But the most important thing for the Storting is why the government waited six months. Why didn't one immediately say that the damage potential is a problem, and that one will now change the law so that it will be consistent with the will of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e335	Firstly, in the Stortinge treatment, it was stated that there could be a challenge related to it. But the government's starting point has always been that we're going to implement the wolf settlement as agreed in the Storting. But it has also been decided in Stortinget that we should follow the Berne Convention, and that is the interpretation of the Berne Convention that is the basis of the law in Norway. Then we have to relate to just this. So the question is how do we go further? The government is working on getting into a way where what is our broad settlement can be realized by the fact that the law and interpretations are correct. In fact, I fully agree with the representative Arnstad that it must be provoked when areas that do not have grazing animals outside because of the wolf actually become an argument that the damage potential will be reduced. That means that the load in the wolf zone has become greater than any of us assumed both the time we established the wolf zones, and the time we dealt with the deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e342	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e347	First of all, I would like to say that the decision taken in connection with last year's wolf report was not a broad compromise. There were only four parties that used their ordinary majority. When it comes to trying to implement what was adopted, it turns out that the decision in practice challenges both Norwegian legislation and the international commitments we have through the Berne Convention. And as the Prime Minister has now said, this is not something that was unknown during the treatment. Now we are in a situation where we have a higher population of wolves also in Norway. Then, according to both the Convention and the Law, the question of whether the Prime Minister’s challenge is really to look for greater flexibility but involves a higher population in Norway. That's going to be the new starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e354	We believe that what was adopted by the majority of the Stortinge gives a viable wolf tribe and meets our international conventions to care for the wolf. The decision of the giant will govern how we try to find our solutions in the future in this area, but we have to make sure that we can adapt it. This applies, inter alia, to: the work we do with documentation of the damage potential. It is possible that the assessments are simply too much based on historical facts, because just now you only have this year and last year with a number of wolves that are larger than the stock targets. So, for example, the fact that we're going to start radio-labelling is that we're going to start radio-labelling. to see if the activity is greater and the ability to take out can go faster than if one waits for it to happen, and that one then in retrospect can see the consequences of it – also because we think it will help to facilitate some of the conflict that is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e359	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e364	There is no doubt that this has been a demanding matter for the right party of the government, and they have now joined the exclusive club of parties that have stood in plenary, including the mayor himself. All the noise internally in the Right makes me assume that when the Prime Minister and her climate and environment minister do something so controversial in their own party, it is not because they have suddenly become hot followers of as many wolves in Norway as possible. There was nothing about Right conduct in opposition in the previous period, at least, as suggested. It must mean that the Prime Minister believes that there are important legal arguments for not being able to implement the hunt for what is called a settlement, but the decision of the representative Elvesuen was taken by the majority of the population. Will the Prime Minister in the future be able to put aside the Berne Convention or the Nature Diversity Act in order to get more wolves shot?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e371	I have no plans to set aside either the Natural Diversity Act or the Berne Convention, but it is clear that we need to look at the fact that the Berne Convention is interpreted a little differently and has had different legal bases in other countries. The majority of the member countries of the Berne Convention have a slightly different wording within the regulation in the EU, the Habitats Directive, than is currently the case in Norwegian legislation, which provides access, and also with the legal decision made in Swedish Supreme Court to take out wolves in Sweden in the case of licence hunting. So it's important to see that the interpretation room can be larger. But as it's formulated today, we can't find that room. It is always the case that the government has to follow the decision of the Storting, but we also have to follow the law. And sometimes when this crashes, it's important that we just take the time it takes to make this fit together, so that we can carry out what is the will of the Storting. And there's a job we have to do in the next few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e376	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e381	The wolf debate is about people, people who for generations have been harvesting from nature, living with nature, people who had hope, but now feel hopeless. It's about power's way of using legal pinnacles, to disincentive community, people-elected denominators, you and me. The government and the Prime Minister are responsible for the frustration we are now seeing. People feel neglected, overwhelmed and overwhelmed. The government has tried to get the debate to be about sheep. It is almost touching what care Helgesen and Solberg have for the sheep all of a sudden, and that only the potential damage to sheep is to be counted in predatory policy. But it's people it's about, and about taking people's problems seriously. It's hard to have a dog when you have a wolf pack that passes right in front of the stairs, you get worried about your kids when there are six wolves at the sandbox – or like yesterday, when I got a message from a lady about someone who has Parkinson's disease, who no longer dares to walk in the woods, but is staying on the porch, because she's afraid of the wolf when she's getting worse health. That's what's so amazing -- the situation of people isn't taken into account when the government is assessing the withdrawal of wolves. People are being disqualified. Those who live far away from a Council office see that their reality is not being seen, it is being overlooked. Mr Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen from the Right wrote it this way: the right had the slogan «Humans, not billions». Now it has become: «Wood, not humans». The wolf debate is about a few people with power who have caused the many to feel discouraged. The Prime Minister has power. Does the Prime Minister see the disenchantment and disenchantment that people feel in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e390	I don't think I've ever spent a lot of time arguing for the sheep and not for people in this debate. On the contrary, I am very concerned that I understand those who take the extra load that is in the wolf zone. This is a side effect that we've created a system of wolvesone – which has made it much easier. I remember that time when it wasn't wolfesone. I remember the time when there were wolves in many places in the country, where this was a conflict that was greater in many places. Now it's limited, and the load is taken by a group. I've always been concerned that this is the challenge. But that's how I, in the past, belonged to that part of the Greatness that's been a little reluctant to turn everything into jus – and I've thought that politics should have a bigger room as you've rolled into new conventions, new laws, new regulations – because just then we're moving power from those who are elected to other bodies. We also have issues for treatment in Stortingen now about precisely those principles. «All power in this room» has been watered down as one moves more and more power over to the law and courts in Norway. It also goes against another important principleal dilemma, that it's not always that power runs. Promises are there to also satisfy some of the constraints to minorities in that context. In ideological terms, I hope that the experience you now have means that you move a little less power over to the courts and a little more power back to the political decisions. As far as wolves are concerned, my intention is that we should be able to implement the decision of the Grand Duchy, but we must ensure that what is a decision in the Grand Duchy does not conflict with the other obligations we have, to which the Grand Duchy has joined – and in fact also transfer some of the authority to the judiciary in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e402	The Prime Minister has power. Once again, we see a government pushing law paragraphs in front of it. The government itself made a political decision when it sent its decision to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. It only asked them to evaluate it in accordance with one paragraph of the Nature Diversity Act – § 18b, and not § 18c, so that more human considerations could be taken into account. It's a political decision that the government has made. The challenge for the government is why it didn't come earlier and said that it wasn't possible to take human consideration in the so-called wolf zone, if it thinks it isn't possible. The government could say that in June, it could say so in August, September, October or November. It said it the last day before the Great One broke up. Does the Prime Minister seriously believe that she is powerless in the wolf policy, or does she think she is responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e409	The Prime Minister is always responsible for ensuring that we follow Norwegian law and Stortingen's decision, and to make it clear when the two things are not entirely related. It is my duty to inform the Storting about it. That is why we have said that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment is coming to Stortinget with a basic and good account, including on the way forward, to address these issues. The whole starting point is that the government thought we were going to have the opportunity to do this. But when the first warning signals came that this could be a conflict, the climate minister started to do something that has not been done before. Not only did he send the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment's assessment of the damage potential and professional assessment to the Legal Department, he also asked the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to deliver its assessment, so that it was a broader basis for obtaining the interpretation of the law that we have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e416	Follow-up questions are given – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e421	The Prime Minister's reply on the timing of this matter is appropriate for confusion. In a previous reply to me, the Prime Minister said that they had informed the Storting about the legal challenge as early as June. Now she gives the impression that this has happened during the fall. I was a little stunned when the Prime Minister said in June, because then I thought that why did the Right Party and the Advance Party submit, despite legal challenges, a settlement that they later thought would not be implemented? The way in which one of these has behaved to the bulk of the population is not entirely related. The abstinence that many people feel in this matter is not limited to the wolf zone. It's not limited to Hedmark. It's not limited to wolves either. I see it in my own county, where sheep farmers in Meråker lost almost 500 sheep only during the summer. It's an active grazing industry. They don't get any promises of help or ability to save that grazing industry. They feel all alone. We see it in Uppland, where the problems of failure of your actions over several years have meant great loss of animals. How has the government planned to meet this abduction? For it will not be met by radio marking the wolf or by, at some point in a two-three winter, fulfilling a settlement that one today runs away from.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e428	I don't have ambitions that there will be two or three winters until we can do more about it. I understand that the proposals we have to meet the legal requirements meet the opposition of the Central Party. But I hope that evidence is seen as important in order for us to be able to meet the uncertainty in the wolf zone, including among those who now believe that the decision that was taken was not right. The issue of the legal wording is mentioned in the Storing Communication. There are also answers to questions from the president of the Centre Party and from other representatives of the big business during the autumn. But we've always believed that it would be possible to do more management and take out more animals than what we've finally ended up with. We also think that is a challenge. That's why it's going to be a very low threshold to take out pests. It shall be lowered further. We have in this government period also lowered the threshold to take out the bear. Sometimes we have been criticized for having taken out the bear too quickly, just when they have had damage potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e435	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e440	Now it's like the loss rates for predatory game go down, and the two-part administration works by having a priority area for grazing animals, and you have an area where it's priority for predatory game. However, you have to take the losses that are, and how they are experienced, very seriously. But when the representative Schlagsvold Vedum accuses the government of using legal pinnacles or pushing legal paragraphs in front of it, it is really just an accusation that the government is following the law – something left is happy to do. That is precisely why international agreements, such as the Berne Convention, are being concluded in order to have a long-term commitment from the various countries to take account of the interests of the Convention. Then my question is: when you look for flexibility, which the Left agrees with, must the purpose of the Convention and the law be firm?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e449	We're looking for ways to implement this, and there's no doubt that the convention is solid. It is important to say that, with regard to the decision taken in the Storting or the observations on the stock targets, the four parties behind the stock targets also said that the management of wolves should be carried out within the framework of international commitments under the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act. That's where we see that the different parts of the decision in Stortinget are not quite able to find their way together. I believe that we must also be open to the fact that our interpretation of the Berne Convention is tighter in some areas than it is in other countries. If the majority of the countries of Europe that have acceded to the Berne Convention have a slightly different wording, which could give a slightly different decision attached to these issues, and that it is not only the damage potential of sheep that is crucial, we should also have an open discussion on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e456	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e461	The government's violation of the predatory settlement has created great frustration, anger and reluctance in what I come from, Hedmark – where people have to live with the great and increasing burden of the wolf tribe. The only thing that grows faster and more uncontrolled than the wolf tribe in Hedmark under the leadership of the Party of Advancement and Right is the number of toll stations. People have now had enough – enough of having to sit with this burden and take their share of responsibility, but see that the government does not follow up on its part of the responsibility, does not follow up on its obligations and cancels planned withdrawals from the wolf, and after six months without anyone having heard a word that this would be a problem. Norway's perhaps largest and foremost authority in Norwegian administration and law, Eivind Smith, the government believes bombs when it hides behind the Law Department, saying that there is a political space that the government does not use. When is the government going to use this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e470	I think we get different views from different lawyers. Lots of what Smith says is right and also corresponds to what we're assessing. It's not exactly right at all in terms of how the law is to understand, and there are quite a few other experts saying the exact opposite. I'm not so concerned with which legal experts say what. I'm concerned to say that as politicians, we need to find solutions when legal experts say different things, and the people's will and the Storting thinks otherwise. Then the way to go is to find the solutions within what is agreed, and I want to stress that I hope the Workers' Party is still standing on the whole deal, namely what I quoted – that the administration is going to take place within the Berne Convention and within the Natural Diversity Act. It's easy now to ride on the big feelings and the difficulty that is, but we have to stay as big as we can within our own common decisions, and this is a broad settlement and a foundation that at least the government has to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e480	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e485	I think it's important to say that no one here has said that you should go outside of the Norwegian law or the Berne Convention, but the problem is that the government itself and its advisers are slipping as time passes. I can take one example: the law department clearly says that it is a little unclear whether you have a problem related to the law on biodiversity, but that there is no doubt about the international obligations under the Berne Convention – the final sentence. Then we get a sentence from Sweden, and then we get to beep another song. So let's at least agree that there's no doubt that that's the interpretation and the space we're talking about. It's not about going against the Norwegian law or the convention, but whether you're willing to use the space of action that can best follow up the agreement, and that's what I want to confirm again that the government is working after.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e492	Yes, we work to implement that decision, but it is important to stress that Swedish law is different from Norwegian law, it contains other legal paragraphs and legal wording.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e497	The convention is the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e502	Right, but the convention is the same, and that's why we have to get the relationship between the law, the convention and the decision taken by the Stortinget to relate. It's among the things the government is now working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e507	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e512	Yesterday, the government received the Equal Opportunities and Discrimination Ombudsman’s report to the UN on the status of women’s rights in Norway. Sickly, the report shows that women are overrepresented in part-time work and underrepresented in terms of pay and leadership positions in the labour market, local policy representation and higher academic positions. Women still serve only 86 pst. of men's wages, which, unfortunately, has been stable for nearly the last 20 years. That means that almost all the parties in this room have been in government during the period. The Ombudsman also says that what we are now confronted with inequalities is difficult and requires great political courage. A new growing challenge is digital and social media, which is a growing arena for assaulting and harassing women. According to the report, the emergence of digital and social media has led to a new arena to engage in harassment and assault against women. Digital harassment and violence include, inter alia: dissemination of nude images, revenge porn, digital harassment and digital violence. Hateful statements affect most people in digital arenas, including: negative statements related to appearance and threats of sexualised violence. As certainly all women in this room know, women in general are a particularly vulnerable group. Many of these acts have such serious consequences that the report equates them with physical violence. The report says that both the police and the judiciary lack knowledge and resources to ensure legal certainty for women exposed to gender-based digital violence. So my question to the Prime Minister is, will the government ensure that the police and the judiciary get the necessary resources and knowledge to do this? And is today's legislation related to digital material and statements updated to ensure legal certainty for women exposed to gender-based digital violence?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e523	I believe that the report we received yesterday is a warning about new challenges. There are many traditional, old challenges that need to be addressed in the long term, such as education, educational choices, a very gender-based labour market and many such long-term structural impacts. But it is also important to see that there are completely new challenges, and, to be honest, that hatred against women has been given a whole new arena through social media. Fortunately, the few people who run it, but those who run it, often run very actively and against very many people. Therefore, it has been important that we have had a strategy against hate spreading as an important effort by this government. We have made our own strategy related to this, and we are working on both the long-term work – which is about school, children, learning to realize that on the other hand there is a man of flesh and blood who has to face it with the same respect that one would meet it with if one had stood face to face – and to conduct police investigation and other. In the Oslo Police Chamber, there is a dedicated task force linked to what is happening on digital media, but there is no doubt that we need both a wider environment of expertise and a greater understanding of the police, and it is part of the follow-up points that lie in the government's strategy against hateful expressions. And then it's important that we also mobilize the entire civil society to say stop, that's enough -- we don't accept it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e532	I also want to follow up on the other parts of the report that the Prime Minister pointed out at the outset. The gender equality policy that has been pursued has, in the last few years in the Left's view, led us in the right direction, but in some areas we have gone in the wrong direction. That we have reduced the paperwork and extended the cash support is two examples of that. It focuses on the challenges to which the report refers in terms of part-time work and participation in professional life. Luckily, there's a movement in the right direction in these areas when they're going to create a new batch program. I think that's great. My question to the Prime Minister is: How does she assess the maritime policy of equality that her government has pursued, and in what areas does the Prime Minister think it is particularly important to increase efforts in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e537	I believe that we should increase work on gender equality in many areas – the fight against the gender-based labour market, getting more women in leadership positions. We have e.g. increased significantly the number of female managers in companies in which the State has influence. When it comes to being appointed as Chairman of the Board of Directors, there is a significant improvement in this government. We do a lot on top, but if I'm going to be completely honest, I think that the biggest challenge we have with regard to gender equality in Norway is all those who are not allowed to participate in what others think is completely obvious. These are groups coming to Norway, women in immigrant settings. Making sure that everyone has access to the choices we ourselves make – the ability to choose their own spouse, their own professional activity, the ability to resist the social pressure they are in – and the dialogue around strengthening these women, I think, is the biggest challenge we have in terms of equality in our society. There is a large group of women in our society who are not allowed to participate in natural rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e542	Follow-up questions are given – first Sveinung Rotevatern.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e548	About half of the workers in this country are women. At the same time, only 30 pst are self-employed women. In 2015, two-thirds of new individuals were created by men, and four-fifths of new companies were created by men. One reason is that the role of self-employed people leads to a greater lack of social security than that of being an employee. In a study just completed by the Academics, 72 pst. by the female participants, the main challenge as self-employed workers is the lack of justice in the context of disease. In yesterday's edition of the Business Day, Kari Sollien took an indication of the government's lack of willingness to give self-employed people the same rights to private pension savings as the other employee has – a difference that is more or less inexplicable. What does the government intend to do to change that situation and secure a safer future for self-employed workers in Norway and increase the number of women entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e557	I believe that the reason we have fewer women entrepreneurs is not primarily that of the representative Rotevatn now. I think it's in the sex-shared labour market, and in many areas where it would be natural to "found" women, because of their work background and other things, the market is very different. This applies, for example: in the health and care sector, where it is a well-known issue that the question of whether or not to use private operators is highly politicised. I feel that as one of the things that makes it more difficult for many women, because so much of their professional background is related to it. It is a structural challenge to have more entrepreneurs in our society, with our gender-based labour market. I have no doubt that the security search is an important part, and we have to look at those arrangements. I think the notion of pension saving is important. We are working on issues of increasing access to private pension savings and hope to be able to make suggestions on this. But as I said, I also believe that our attitude towards private people in the large women's sectors is one of the things that makes it difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e564	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e569	The only people who believe that this government's equality policy is good are the Right and the Advance Party itself. The NHO has said that government policy is slowing down equality. Specter has said that the government puts equality in reverse. «Historical action in the field of equality», said the UNIO on the government communication. ‘The government has no equality policy’, thought LO. The Joint Police Association also considered that ‘the measures are completely absent’. The gender equality researchers put an end to the government's policy. The Labour Party, Left, Christian People's Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Environmental Party The Green Party also parked the government's equality policy when we dealt with the gender equality message in Stortinget. The party of progress and the Right is alone in not wanting to lead the equality forward. Today, the government gets criticism from the Equality Ombudsman not to do anything about the growing gender equality challenges. Does all these organisations — the Equality Ombudsman, the social partners and an overall ageing opposition — make mistakes, or can the Prime Minister now admit that the government has not done enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e580	There are a lot of areas where we can admit that we haven't done enough, and we have ambitions to be more forward-looking and do more. The Labour Party's response, which was to create more bureaucracy in a larger network of gender equality experts around the country, was not the answer to the challenge for women in everyday life related to gender equality, which was the main instrument in the previous communication, which was withdrawn by this government. We have addressed the major challenges in our gender equality message, which I often experience that the Workers' Party is not so concerned about talking about: violence against women and children. It's one of the biggest troubles for many. We have an escalating plan against violence against children. We have worked a lot on measures that strengthen that area. We're working to make sure that our entire labour market is less gender-divided, working on real-time and technology bets and making sure that girls are involved. There is also one way to ensure that more women get into the professions that provide higher pay and less pay in the future. Not least in the case of international equality, this government has raised girls and education in a way that has missed gender equality on a global scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e591	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e596	In these Question Time I tend to ask the Prime Minister questions about the increasing differences in power and wealth under her government, and then the Prime Minister often tends to answer that investing in school is important to reduce inequality over time. Some of what the bourgeois parties have talked about most in 2016, it's raised to 870 million. SEK which was to provide 1000 new years of teaching to increase the teacher's density in primary school. At no time has Stortinget been given the signal that the government was not prepared to achieve this goal. Now we've got the numbers. They show total failure for the bourgeois teacher effort. The teacher's density in the Norwegian primary school has been reduced by 180 years of work. So we know that the government's policy in addition is that next year another 600 teachers are going away in high school. So there will be fewer teachers per student in primary school, and at the same time as Prime Minister Erna Solberg has released all inhibitions in the field of money use – tax cuts to the economic elite, oil money consumption increases by almost 100 billion. DKK in four years. Nevertheless, the result in schools is that there will be fewer teachers for our children. It shows something about what's important, and what's not important for this government, and it's a pretty amazing priority. I wonder how the Prime Minister explains his teaching failure. Does it correspond to expectations that there will be fewer teachers per student in primary school, and does the government now intend, in the light of the failure in 2016, to do something to ensure that the money actually comes to the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e603	I do not feel that the work we have had too early is a failure. On the other hand, the numbers show that it works. There are several teaching positions in 1–4. Group sizes go down. Looking at the group sizes of the 1–4 group, which have been the main focus of this government, it goes down from 16 students on average to 15.8, from last year to this year in the school year. We should like it to be even more. We haven't earmarked all the funds. But the main reason why it didn't happen anymore is that there's a pretty large increase in the number of students in school in those years as well. That means that the student increase eats up part of the extra bet, so that the average number doesn't go down. The alternative to what we've done would be that there were even larger groups. But we also see the differences that might exemplify it. If I were to be a little simple – I was saying SV rhetorical – in such debates, I might be able to take examples from the municipalities. When you look at the municipalities that have now received money and strengthened this, how the results are for typical right-hand-ruled municipalities such as Drammen, Kristiansand and Bærum, you can see that you have fallen clearly in class size from 1 to 4. steps. It goes from 19.35 students to 18.7 in 2014–2015 in Drammen. In Bærum it goes from 19.4 to 17.9. So these are results. On the contrary, I could say to the representative that where SV is allowed to rule, in Oslo, it goes negatively. I do not intend to say that it is because SV is in power there and not in the other municipalities. It's because Oslo experiences an extraordinary number of students coming there, and so they can't, even if they get extra resources, bring the class size down as such. However, resources have come to the schools, and many municipalities show a decline in class sizes as a result.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e610	The Prime Minister is very good at exodus. Her problem is that these excuses could be used all year last year, but she didn't when she promised to increase the teacher's density. We knew the elephant was going to go up. It's politically determined that the hour should rise. Nevertheless, according to government documents, the 1,000 year-olds should lead to an increase in teacher density. What are the numbers in the municipalities now? I would recommend the Prime Minister not to boast of developments between 1 and 4. steps. 147 municipalities in the country have reduced the total number of teacher’s years of education from 1 to 4. steps. We know that many of those who have increased have actually picked up the money by cutting in other parts of primary school. So Erna Solberg, who has been talking about the dream teacher, ends up as prime minister in a situation where the teacher's density goes down, while the proportion of unskilled teachers in school increases, after falling under the previous government. It's not exactly a dream bet for the teachers. My question was whether the Prime Minister will do something different in 2017 to make sure that the money comes out, and she did not respond to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e617	In fact, the teacher density goes down from 1 to 4. step, where the government and the parties on the Stortinget have had their focus. Where there is early effort, the teacher's density goes down. It's different in different municipalities. In some municipalities, there are fewer teachers, among others. as the population and number of pupils decline, and in a municipality where SV is in power, the group size rises. I don't owe it to SV to run there, but I understand that it's because the number of students goes up in Oslo School, and it helps to raise the average. For us, early efforts are primarily that we need to have more authority and responsibility in the municipalities to intervene at an earlier time. We're going to dispose of several types of resources, not just teachers' resources, into the early arrangement, so that students who are following get a targeted follow-up. But the municipalities have transferred the money, and the results are slightly different between municipalities. But at 1–4. steps, which are where the input from the bulk population has been deployed, the size of the class goes down.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e624	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e630	These figures are not surprising because not only has the government actively reduced teacher density by removing 600 teachers this year, but the Prime Minister also argues that it is necessary to choose between increasing teacher density between 1 and 4. steps and from 5 to 7. Steps, as if that's the big difference here. She argues as if the option to make the money disappear in the big pot or to be spent on other things is an even greater increase in the number of students per teacher, but the alternative is a norm that makes sure that the money reaches where it is needed, with the student. Does not the Prime Minister find it illustrative to the government's view of public welfare that she does not take it very seriously that all the money she and the bourgeois parties have spent a year bragging about going to increased teacher's density has gone to entirely different things?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e635	First of all, there is a difference between what the majority on the Biggest has prioritised, that is, early effort, and what SV prioritised when they put in government, late effort. We think that early work is what really makes fewer students have problems, that more people are going to learn more at an early stage, and they don't get the experience of years in and years to experience failure at school because they don't master things. That's why we brought this up, and that's why it's 1 to 4. Steps are important in relation to secondary education. In addition, the secondary school measure has now been evaluated by the SV and it was not possible to find results in the form of better education or better learning. I don't want to use the word ‘fiasco’ in this way – I think it's good for every student to have more teachers, but it didn't seem quite as promotional as SV said before the proposal came – but that's exactly what the SV's proposal for late efforts must be. There are now 748 more year-olds for school education, more for special education and especially for language teaching. There is about one missing. 240 years' worth of what we had as ambition. That's what we hope next year – a little freedom for the municipalities to give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e642	Marianne Aasen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e647	The Prime Minister's explanation of why the teacher's density has deteriorated is that more children have emerged in the municipalities. Now it is the way that the income system of the municipalities should take into account the population changes that have been in the last year, well, notice if the municipalities get enough money to cover just this. When the Prime Minister's answer to the lack of teacher's density is greater, it becomes indirectly a way of telling the municipalities that they have received too little money. Lower taxes are more important than good municipal finances and a good school. Then my question is, how will the government ensure that the Greatness's will – the majority – to increase the teacher's density actually becomes a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e654	I therefore hope that the representative is happy that it is our municipal structure and not the municipal structure that the red-green government had, which applies, since we have this year given a larger framework and increased growth in the municipal sector than in the last four years with the red-green government. That gives you a starting point. There are 748 more annual papers for school education now. It's a little less than what we put up to, but I'm not a member of earmarked schemes. I am in favour of the municipalities deciding the distribution, and therefore our main act on the Right – which is also government policy – is to intensify the law in terms of early efforts. If that means that we get more for special education, and that special education goes closer to school, students who are following help and provide more intensive training, for example. one-to-one training, so that they can follow, is our goal to provide a better education overall and the ability for children to experience school as a place where they master, not a place where they lose every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e659	Anders Tyvand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e664	Early school effort by having more teachers for the youngest students has been one of the Christian People's Party's most important priorities in this ageing period, and I am pleased that there have now been nearly 1,000 new teaching positions in the 1st to 4th. class, and there will be more when the money from the 2017 budget is also included in the calculation. I'm also glad that the group size is 1–4. Steps now actually go down, although there have been 8 000 more students in these classes during the same period. But the Christian People's Party has higher ambitions, and we have to make sure that the money that the Stortinget grants to more teachers is actually used for more teachers, and therefore we have proposed a national standard for teacher density. The right has also promised that they will bet on early school work in the future, and that's good. In the budget debate before Christmas, the Minister of Knowledge said that the government's early efforts at school will also require more teachers. My question is: how will the Prime Minister ensure that we get these more teachers who are needed when the government will not support a national standard for teacher density?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e673	Our grip is different than making a norm. It's to strengthen the focus on those students who are struggling, it's to give the obligation of activity and the obligation to follow up more clearly. One will thus have to come in earlier. I think it's not just putting in an extra teacher that is necessarily the answer if one is struggling. As a dyslexic myself, I know that many teachers do not have the skills to do so. That's what teacher training is now. Often, putting in special skills does not mean that the student has to get a diagnosis first, but that one has people with different types of skills more closely, so that one can get the students over the difficult learning points that make them feel that they are failing in school. That's why I think using a slightly broader perspective on school learning contributes to it. There are a lot of teachers with more competence and with a lot of good continuing education coming back to school these days. Therefore, an increased number of teachers will also contribute for everyone. But we think a little differently — and also about how a person uses specific skills on those who have challenges and who are hanging out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e682	Ivar Odnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e687	Time to meet each individual student is important. This applies not least to those students who need close follow-up by the very highest level of professionalism, and who often end up in need of special education. I have noted the conclusion in the report ‘Special Education — Drivers and Dilemma’ — published by KS — which says that low learning density provides less adapted training, and that the possibilities for more flexible organisation of ordinary education are a necessary means of happiness in reducing the need for special education. There is agreement in Norway that the number of special education decisions is still too high. An extra alarm will occur when the scan shows a total of 30 pst. by special education given by unskilled persons. My question to the Prime Minister is difor: Does the Prime Minister think it is gratifying that the students most in need of professional competence from the teacher are cared for by unskilled people without cork teacher training or special skills? And – where appropriate – what will the government do to ensure that these students are cared for in a better way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e696	No, we don't think it's satisfactory that 30 pst. specific training is provided by unskilled persons. It has the character of parking instead of being educational follow-up and help to those students who have challenges. That's exactly why we've been thinking different than the crew norm. We have thought that a legal obligation to follow-up should be greater, that one should make a larger team and work in another way. A teacher's norm will mean that one locks the resources of the classroom to a much greater extent, that one is a little dependent on it. It is even the case that municipalities with schools that have the best results today, the greatest achievement, will have the most resources if they link it to a school teacher standard, not to those who are the weakest. In fact, many of the municipalities that score the worst and have most students in the weakest group have less class size than those that have better results. That's why we believe in some other grip, and there's a proposal for the Stortinget, which has also been announced in connection with the persuasion debate and other.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e704	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e709	I think everyone in this room is too early, but it has no necessary connection with early efforts that many teachers into all classrooms are the best organization. The evaluation of the 1.8 billion. kr as SV used, showed that they had no effect – the researchers could not show any effect of the 1.8 billion. kr. It is strange that we have a school policy that is characterized by so much vision and so little knowledge-based policy development in this field. It's maybe one of the things that school policy really suffers from. The last question given to the Prime Minister is a little closer to what is at the heart of the matter — the use of unskilled people, the use of those who have the worst education, those who need the most help, the degree of special education in our teaching staff and the ability of the teaching staff to also deal with behavioural problems. We are now very focused on educating teachers only to be good math teachers and good Norwegian teachers, but many of them also face a demanding behavioral problem. They should also get ballast to learn how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e716	I totally agree with that. I want to say that sometimes it creates a warped image of what, for example. continuing training is, because continuing training is not just learning more, it is also learning the educational way of learning and working in other ways. We need to lift ourselves professionally in some areas. In Norwegian at primary school level, for example, it is more systematic to learn that a person has different methods of breaking the reading and writing code, that one can do so in different ways. It's one of the things I experience that teachers most often say they have a challenge with. It's easy to learn a lot of students to read and write quickly – and they're sitting with two students that they're not quite able to reach. Then they need extra help. Many people may be able to do it by having more teachers in the classroom, but often they also need a different kind of competence. In addition, class management and it's going to have some other groups in it. The fact that we've made a big uplift, for example. The health care allowance during the years we have made budgetary settlements together helps to provide a teacher with help and support elsewhere for students who are struggling in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e725	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e730	On Tuesday it became known that official waiting lists show that waiting times continue to fall in hospitals. I would say that is fundamentally positive, and it shows that hospitals are able to eliminate unnecessary waiting. This is reflected in a long-term trend of good work dating back to 2010. At the same time, the last year has shown that the measurement of waiting times is both complex and complicated, and the medical journal Dagens Medisin documented last year that there has been a dramatic change in how hospitals assess patients referred to the hospital. It is now supported by the fact that wait-list researchers, patient and user representatives and others point out that the official statistics used by the government only show some of the reality. For example, new figures show that 160,000 patients – and President, stick to you! – has passed the tentative deadline. This simply means that there are a number of patients who have received a medical deadline set by the unobserved hospital professionals and who have not yet appeared on official statistics. Another example is that the time taken for patients to actually receive treatment or surgery is often twice as long as official figures show. When you are ill and need health care, good communication and that there is credibility in the follow-up to what you have been promised by the hospital is very important. Uncertainty and unnecessary postponement are not what you want. The Labour Party has therefore proposed a transparency reform, where patients and decision-makers are provided with much more information on how each hospital is able to take care of one after entering the hospital. To date, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health from the Right have been most concerned with explaining and highlighting their own excellence. Will the Prime Minister now support the Workers' Party's proposal to reform the presentation and measurement of waiting times in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e737	This government is for transparency. That's what we've been doing from the moment we got into the government offices. We have introduced transparency in areas where the previous government would not have transparency, for example. related to waiting lists for place in hospitals in the municipalities, we have transparency related to several, and we have asked for numbers on many other pieces. I can't decide what transparency and what indicators the Labour Party has, because I haven't been involved in it, but we have no fundamental problems with it. We think, for example: that it is not good when in the Municipality of Oslo, after the Workers' Party took over power, is no longer transparent about the results of related studies. The other way is to have transparency about quality indicators. It's implemented from this government that we're going to have transparency around quality indicators, which is a pretty big difference from before. If the Workers' Party is now moving in that direction, that's fine. Then we can get a consensus that numbers should be on the table for good control, rather than numbers being hidden, as I felt that much was earlier because it was unpleasant to see it. Then I want to say that it is good that the Workers' Party can now admit that the health cows, the number of patients in queue, are going down, but this is not the only tool we have. Perhaps the most important thing to make sure that there is coherence in the treatment is what we do with the package sequence, which we started with for cancer, and which we are now going to develop in several other areas. It's one of the things I meet in a hospital – at the latest yesterday, I met Health Förde. What they see is that these are really logistic operations, and understanding how all the pieces are connected makes it much faster and much better to use their resources. They also experience that the quality and satisfaction of not only patients, but also those who work with it, by thinking much more structured about how to use resources, and seeing the lines of treatment in a different way, as the package trajectories do, which must be done in several areas in the future, are quite correct. If the Workers' Party is now too open, that's good. If they can also call them in Oslo and say that they should be too transparent too, it's even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e748	It is nothing new that the Workers' Party boasts of our great professionals and how good the public health service is. What's new is that even the Right now has begun to talk so much about public health. But in the opposition, the Prime Minister was a front figure in unilateral criticism and promotion of his own privatisation solutions as the answer to the various things that do not work in Norwegian healthcare. On the issues of transparency, we discussed this completely back in July last year. The government has drawn its feet and been pressured from chance to chance, and they say that they are now open to and have no fundamental objections, as the Prime Minister says, to contributing to greater transparency about what is actually going on in hospitals. Yeah, the health cows are going down. The time for one’s first meeting with the hospital goes down – it shows the official figures. The problem is that many people think that the time it takes to actually get treatment is another number, which the government has not been equally concerned about showing up. I am concerned that the Prime Minister is now contributing to a little more audacity and some more reservations in his story of his own achievements.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e757	With regard to the audacity of history, perhaps the representative should turn around and look at what he said at the beginning of the post he was making now, that we were just making proposals on privatisation. No, we had proposals for action against cancer, we had proposals for quality records, we had proposals for systems for improvement when we were in opposition in Stortinget. On the contrary, I have always been concerned that the core of the Norwegian healthcare system is the public health system. Therefore, it is important that when we introduced free user choice, we did so at the same time as we made changes that made it possible to make better use of capacity in public health. The story of the Workers' Party is inconsistent and inconsistent. If we are to believe in a new transparency line after leaving government offices, which is now being introduced – you did the opposite when you were in government – you have to start talking to your local politicians. I think it is sad that in Oslo you should not know what relatives think about the quality of the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e764	There will be one follow-up question – from Tove Karoline Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e769	I can't humiliate myself. The bourgeois City Council in Oslo has kept 3 000 out-of-date messages secret for the sake of business secrets of the private drivers; it opened up the red-green city council. My question is: In the spring of 2013, then Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre presented a proposition that changed the assessment period for referral to hospitals from 30 to 10 days. There was a broad consensus that this was important in order to reduce the waiting time for the patient treatment, which has otherwise gone down steadily from 2010, measured from referral to the first hospital consultation. But we know that such grips can also have undesirable twisting effects. That's why the proposition in 2013 put a lot of emphasis on following up this carefully so that it wouldn't happen. Does the Prime Minister see that she and the Minister of Health may have contributed to this unwanted twist with their rather shiny waiting time stories that they have brought to town when more researchers can now tell about long internal queues in hospitals and 160 000 delayed patient agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e783	It is not that the waiting time has fallen steadily, it has fallen radically after the government change. First, it increased significantly from 2005 to 2010–2011, then it began to fall, and it has fallen considerably afterwards. It's important to say that we use more control mechanisms. One of the governance mechanisms we use is to implement the golden rule that some of the weakest in drug and mental health are better viewed, prioritised more strongly. For this reason, we also see that in this area — through the purchase of several services, managed by the state — there will be shorter waiting times, especially in specialised drug treatment. There are important priorities of the weakest groups. We are also interested in seeing how the development is internal to hospitals. There have been waiting lists internally, and what we are now looking at is whether or not they are increasing, but there is nothing preliminary that suggests that they have increased their internal lists. I believe that we should take seriously the fact that waiting times have fallen, that fewer queues and that our healthcare system is getting better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e792	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e806	There will be one change in the set-up question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in that context. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 1, from the representative Kjersti Top to the Minister of Knowledge, is postponed until the next Question Time, after consultation between the questioner and the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e826	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e834	‘In the 2013 election campaign interview, Erna Solberg Jens Stoltenberg accused of low employment in the Duellen TV2 programme. Citation: ‘Under you as Prime Minister, the number of people outside the labour market has increased.’ But after the government took over, developments have gone in the wrong direction. With an employment share of 67.5 pst. for the 1st to 3rd quarter of 2016, we need to go back to 1995 to find a lower employment rate in the same period. What will the Council of State do to reverse the negative developments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e841	It is true that the employment rate has fallen in recent years. The decline started under the previous government and still has under it. The government is investing large resources to reverse the negative trend. Our objective is clear: we need more work, we need fewer young people to fall out of work, and we also need to make sure that Nav works better, that is. that the hub is turned more towards work. In order to strengthen employment, the most important thing in the short term is how the state budget is set up and how much money we spend. Financial policy, together with monetary policy, is now making a major contribution to stimulating labour demand. The 2017 budget includes a strong commitment to investment in infrastructure, research and knowledge. The initiative will reduce the transport costs of business, increase innovation and increase the skills of the population. These are important measures to achieve a successful transition to the Norwegian economy and working life. The municipal sector is strengthened and the business community is given lower taxes. We have an action package of 4 billion. with special measures to combat unemployment. Since the start of oil conversions in the summer of 2014, the government has also strengthened labour market policy. Here's a lot of work: One of the most important instruments of labour market policy is to qualify more people into the labour market. Normal labour market measures have escalated to a level significantly higher than that which has been averaged over the last twenty years. The increased scope of action is targeted at regions and groups with the greatest challenges. A rapid track into the labour market shall be established for migrants with a refugee background. Those with whom competence has been sought shall be able to participate in the labour market more easily and more quickly. Here we have an agreement with the social partners. The government has made it easier for companies to hire temporarily. We expect it to make it easier for more people to get a foothold in the world of work. Remuneration recipients have been given increased opportunities to participate in regular training, and those who set up their own activities may retain their daily allowances longer than before. It is worth working rather than going to social security. We are now demanding that young beneficiaries of social assistance be faced with adapted activity requirements, for example: training or job search. It will get more out of a passive life and into work. Economic policy, as a whole, means a strong effort to put job vacancies into work, to create new profitable jobs and to reverse the negative trend in the employment rate in the long term. The Norwegian economy is improving. The government assumes that employment is taking place during this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e862	I noticed that in the spontaneous questioning session, the Prime Minister actually stated in a reply to the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen that the level of employment in Norway had remained good, despite a reduction in employment in the oil sector. It is a rather eye-catching claim when we see from the official figures that not only is unemployment historically high, but it is also that the level of employment – as I asked for – is historically low. Clearly, that government has spent the most money in this period is tax relief, especially for the richest, with the reason that it should be growth-promoting. Nevertheless, we have experienced that despite the fact that the krone price is weak and the interest rate is low, almost no new jobs are created in Norway. What will the Council of State do to reverse that development?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e867	Looking at the current situation in the Norwegian economy, I agree that the employment share is too low. But when you compare earlier times with now: Under the previous government, we had good days of increasing the number of jobs – it was good years, the money ran in, the oil industry went well – and then the oil price came down abruptly two years ago. 40000 jobs are lost in oil and gas. In addition, the proportion of older people in the population should not be disregarded. We now see that the elderly population is growing quite significantly compared to the past, and yet, despite the challenges we face in the Norwegian economy and an ageing population, employment has been kept relatively stable. But our goal is to make it better through the measures, in the short term and through the long-term conversion measures that I mentioned in my main response.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e874	It's quite special that a government council stands here and says that the previous government had better days. During the last government we experienced a historical financial crisis that hit the whole world. But we had a Norwegian government that said: we need the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, but we need the strongest measures in Europe against unemployment. The Prime Minister sat down at the end of the table and took care of the Council of State and said: Get jobs, then you will get money, and there will be measures that can be resolved when economic cycles turn around. This is targeted employment policy. The first time I challenged the Prime Minister in an interpellation debate here in Stortinget, in June 2014, the oil price was 115 dollars, but still there was concern about the development of employment. And I ask: does it not worry the Council of State that, despite the fact that we have had very favourable crown prices and favourable interest rates for business in Norway – and then I am not talking about the oil industry, but about everything else, two thirds of the business world – there is no innovation in private sector jobs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e881	Once again, we see that the Workers' Party compares the financial crisis with the crisis in the oil industry. There are two completely different situations we're facing. During the financial crisis, there was a lack of cash, and you can solve that by, for example, dragging the gold card. I'm going to give the last government credit for getting us through the financial crisis, but now we're facing a whole new situation through the need for change, both in private business and in the public sector. There's no government council that creates jobs; it's the business out there that does. The most important instrument we have now to improve the situation and facilitate the transition is to provide capital, it is also to ensure that there is an economic policy out there that helps businesses, it is to provide infrastructure, transport that improves the framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises, and it is to ensure that Norwegian businesses have access to the right skills. That is why we are focusing on taxation, economic policy, on investment in transport, not least on education, skills, research and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e891	‘23. On her official facebook page, the Minister of Culture wrote on December 2016 that she was sad to read that Nylund School in Stavanger does not allow the students to sing «Good is Earth». The principal did not turn around, but clarified the misunderstanding as early as December 15th; the students would enjoy the Christmas song for artistic reasons. What caused the council to spread false rumors about a elementary school in Stavanger, and can she now give children, teachers and parents at Nylund School an unreserved apology?"
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e898	As individuals and as a society, we need traditions and communities, because it says something about who we are, and it says something about our roots. Like different people, we have a more or less close relationship with faith, church, Christmas songs and traditions. But our history, faith and culture have made us a society of values and have contributed to how we view ourselves and our identity. I believe it is important to know this in order to stand firm ourselves. We want to meet other people with tolerance and respect, whether it's individuals, schools or communities. I think you can meet people with other traditions if you are also familiar with and clear about your own traditions. School services and Christmas traditions, I believe, are a natural part of a Norwegian school day. To assume that our society is trying to be neutral is also a choice. It's as active a choice as fending for our own traditions. Being neutral does not promote understanding about Norway, and, worse still, it is – for the school’s part – that it does not recognise knowledge. And that's a choice I disagree with. For me, it's just calling the end of Christmas the "December Collection" nouveau. Many responded to the choice of words from the school's management: ‘Some people who do not want the Christmas message would see it as an insult to the inclusion of the word Christmas.’ It was used to describe several discussions within the school, which have lasted for several years. The situation at Nylund School was and has obviously been perceived differently by different people. It's just as good an example of the uncertainty that can arise if you don't stand up to your own traditions. I didn't mean to run into a single school with my status update, I would stress that, but I wanted a debate that so-called neutrality is also an active choice. So I'm going to be the first to admit that communication is demanding, and I have ambitions and I want to be as precise as possible – I still want ambitions about that. But let me end by saying that I think having debates is a good thing. It's in the controversies we're made aware of, we're running an open and democratic society, and we're going to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e916	I know Nylund School as an incredibly diverse school, and I hope that the Minister of Culture is also the Council of State for Music Teachers. Christmas at Nylund elementary school was like most other primary schools, it was luciatog, it was angels, it was niches, it was Jesus child, and competent music teachers wanted to talk about Christmas at Christmas. They would have a theme that was about light – being light in the world, which I think the Minister of Culture is not disagreeable with. They made a setup that would take place from 1st to 7th grade – a not quite easy task. It was sixth graders who wrote texts on cancer and refugees. ‘Dedicated is the earth’ was humiliated, a wordless cannon spreading through space. I wasn't there, but it sounds very nice – it was for artistic reasons. So can the Minister of Culture now clarify this government's position on Christmas closings? Will there now be new rules from the government for Christmas closings, or will Norwegian music teachers still have the freedom to work on artistic features of Christmas closings in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e921	I am absolutely sure and have full confidence that the management and staff at this school will preserve diversity and facilitate the best possible offer, which will reach out to all the students, and I am absolutely sure that the representative Tvedt Solberg, who knows this school very well, correctly describes that this year it had a great collection before Christmas. The government is not going to impose any requirements on how Christmas ends should be. It's because we have confidence in the employees of the school, in the management of the school, and that educators will facilitate the care of the traditions that we have, in a good way, but will also ensure that students who have a different history and background become part of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e928	Not quite unnaturally, this was one of the big issues at home at Christmas, and I think it's serious when employees, students and parents say they feel improperly ridiculed. Most of the things I talked to, especially, were that the Minister of Culture threw himself into it. One of the country's responsible leaders contributed to spreading these untruths. One of the most important things I learned at my old high school is that one should speak true, one should not bluff, and make a mistake, one should quickly correct and try to make it right again. The Minister of Culture was asked to clean up — not just one, two or three times, but she had countless opportunities to correct the error that had occurred in both social media and ordinary media. It is only now, when the Minister of Culture is called to the Grand Ring, that one comes with a kind response. I also think it is unlikely that when one says one is busy with communication, one cannot complain to those who are affected, and does not take greater self-criticism. When the Council of State is informed that she is wrong, why is she not following one of the most Norwegian ideals and correcting this before?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e937	I have clarified that communication is demanding. I'm trying to be as precise as possible. What I was starting from was a quote from the school's management that one was aware that the Christmas message, and that the word "Christmas" is included, could be perceived by some as converging. After several debates around in several schools, this was what created an engagement with me, and about which I wrote a status update. I have confidence that the employees of all our schools are doing what they can to facilitate good markings relating to different festivals, but here we now saw that this creates debate and great commitment among people, and that I think has been a reason for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e949	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Security the following questions: ‘In Dagsrevyen, 23 November 2016, the Swedish Depositary Representative, Ropstad launched a proposal from the Christian People’s Party that ICT companies should have a storage obligation of 6 months for IP addresses in the case of online communications. Kripos actively supported the proposal, which will provide the police with better opportunities to detect child pornography and abuse against children, but also to combat other cybercrime and terrorism. In the past, the Workers' Party and the Right have entered into 3 months' storage obligations in connection with the processing of the Data Storage Directive. Will the government follow the proposal of the Christian People's Party?"
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e958	The representative Jan Bøhler addresses a question I and my department are very concerned about. As the responsible police minister, I am well aware that it is a major problem for the police that traffic data, including IP addresses, cannot be stored beyond what is necessary for the needs of the telecommunications companies. This was attempted in 2011, when Stortinget adopted proposals for rules to ensure that data traffic is stored for six months before it is deleted. However, the legislative amendments adopted were not put into effect after the EU Court of Justice found that the EU Data Storage Directive was invalid. On this basis, the government ordered an expert investigation to assess whether the Norwegian data storage rules are in line with human rights. The investigation concluded that there is doubt as to whether the adopted rules on data storage comply with the European Convention on Human Rights, EMC. The government found it most appropriate to wait for the EU to deal with the further legal development of data storage, while awaiting the outcome of ongoing legal proceedings in several EU countries. As I understand it, the core of the problem is that the fact that everyone is registered in the case that the police may need some of the data at a later stage is difficult to reconcile with the provisions of the EU Charter and the EMC, which protect personal freedom. In this context, I can also mention that legal experts in Sweden have previously concluded that the Swedish data storage law, which has several similarities to what was adopted in the Norwegian then-storage Act, is essentially in conformity with the international law. However, the European Court of Justice has reached a different conclusion, which was done as late as 21 December last year. It shows that data storage issues are complex and complex. We all agree that serious crime should be combated, but to achieve this, the police must be equipped with adequate methods. The Government has therefore proposed several different measures, including data reading, that were known to enter into force last autumn. There is no doubt that it would have been a great advantage for police crime-fighting activities if traffic data were to be stored as permitted by the adopted Data Storage Act. On the other hand, we also need to respect international obligations that restrict actions that have a good purpose, such as data storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e969	I thank you for the answer and for the involvement of the Council of State, for showing an understanding of how important this is in order to investigate crime. I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State on the job, and that is probably the first time he is in Stortinget as such, so it is an important event, the start of an important job. In Stortinget it was when we discussed this in 2011, a great deal of understanding of the need for storage. The batches that were against the Data Storage Directive also said that they could imagine national legislation at this point. In the EU countries and elsewhere, very many countries have storage obligations, which means that we can obtain data from other countries when investigating for example. child porn. Will the Council of State take a closer look at the possibility that we can go our own national path to a law compatible with international law?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e978	I thank the representative Boehler for his warm congratulations. I can see that we're on the same line here with respect to what you want. Yesterday I had the pleasure of visiting the "Dark Room" operating centre in Bergen and got insight into the very important work that is going on there. I feel that one of the biggest challenges they face, and as they communicated very clearly to us when we were visiting, is that the storage of IP addresses should be able to be regulated for a longer period of time. But, as I said, we have these international challenges. I see the need to combat a type of crime that I think the vast majority of citizens in this country perceive as one of the worst types of criminal acts that take place, for here there is a connection between child pornography and direct child abuse. So I have a lot of understanding of it, and I promise we'll look at how we can handle this better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e985	I thank you for your answer. It is also important, in the light of data protection, to look at the real protection of individuals, because it is about the protection of children affected by these offences, in child pornography. It is about the protection of the people affected by fraud, fraud with bank cards, etc., matters that today are difficult to investigate because the IP addresses that have been used are being deleted on an ongoing basis. The same applies in terms of preventing terror and other things, we have difficult conditions for it to work when the IP addresses are deleted on an ongoing basis. It was the Data Protection Agency that intervened – in June 2011, as far as I remember – in regulating, so that it could store a maximum of three weeks and impose an obligation to delete companies. So it's a question of whether you've gone too far in the deletion obligation. In the past, there was no obligation to delete. Then the companies had the IP addresses longer, and that was a smaller problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e990	The problem illustrates the legal dilemma in many ways. On the one hand, we want good and effective instruments – good tools, if you want – to fight crime, a type of crime that should and should have a high priority for combating it. At the same time, there are some important limitations that must be made against privacy. This is a dilemma, and Norway is not alone in accepting these important considerations. They demand a thorough political debate, especially when we see developments in the crime scene that have become possible through the technology that has found its way into society in the last decade. I think this is an important debate. I have no ambition in any way to conclude here and now, but I am calling for this debate and will also participate in it. This type of crime should be combated by good means, but at the same time we must safeguard privacy in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e995	So the ordinary questioning strategy is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-11.ana.ud212e1009	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
