ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e116	The representatives of Ingunn Foss, Liv Signe Navarsete, Torgeir Knag County and Erlend Wiborg, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. From 18 December to 20 December, there is an application for welfare leave from the Left for the representative of Trine Skei Grande. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Oslo, Guri Melby, currently has parental leave and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Trine Skei Grande. Other alternates, Grunde Almeland, are invited to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e152	I would like to make a representative proposal from Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Kjersti Toppe, Siv Mossleth, Willfred Nordlund and myself on the amendment of the Working Environment Act § 14-12, reducing access to the use of contracted labour from recruitment agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e157	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e164	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Ingerd Schou. – Other proposals are not available, and Mr Schou is unanimously elected as President-in-Office of the current sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e186	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government and five lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e199	The time has come for what is called the most beautiful adventure of the autumn in the English language – when we are now discussing the budget of the Labour and Social Committee. I would like to begin by thanking the Committee Secretary and the members of the Committee for their good and constructive work in a hectic time. This year's budget will ensure active labour market policies, a stronger social security network and well-functioning labour and welfare management. There is a great and important contribution to the budget of the Labour and Social Committee. The budget presented in recent years after the government has secured work, activity and transformation and contributes to sustainable welfare schemes, which also means that we can have good arrangements for the future. The oil price shock that gave two years of weak growth is now replaced by increased growth, increased employment and lower unemployment. The policies that have been pursued work. This budget ensures a continuing high level of labour market measures, improves individual job opportunities and discourages the long-term unemployment of individuals and contributes to the integration of immigrants and other vulnerable groups into the labour market. There is now a smaller need for labour market measures to be fully available. That is also why it is proposed to reduce the rate of degression. We are continuing national youth efforts and increasing efforts to combat long-term unemployment. In order to get the daily allowance recipients back to work, those who have half a year left of the daily allowance period will be reinforced by Nav. The follow-up calls will be realising and motivating an enhanced job search. The aim of this is to get those who have gone out of work, into work or work-oriented offers, as it is incredibly important to prevent long-term unemployment and out of work. I think it's important that the social security network meet those who really need it. The safety network is the welfare society’s way of preventing the most vulnerable groups from falling outside. The safety network shall contribute to providing all the necessary assistance to participate in the labour market and other social arenas in society. But at the same time, it's important that the security network also helps to help people out of the Nav system where possible, so that people who can work don't stay. The Progress Party has worked through the budget to ensure that public schemes and labour and welfare policy measures are at the heart of its efforts to create the best possible safety net. In order to achieve more of the instruments, the government has been working for several years to modernise, streamline and red tape in several areas. One goes by the Working Environment Act, which the government together with its supporting parties Left and Christian People's Party has modernised to be more aligned with the society we have today, and not with yesterday's society. Similarly, we have modernised and red taped Nav. There's still a lot left there, but it's based on the basic idea of the four non-socialist parties that no human beings are equal. All people have different needs, all people have different abilities, different desires. Then we also have to have a hub that is more capable of seeing the individual, and what is needed to help a person get out of the Nav queue and stand on his own legs. The budget we are adopting today will ensure economic growth, it will provide more work, and it will strengthen sustainable welfare systems. We are now experiencing good growth in the economy at the same time as in many industries. I am sure that this budget will help to continue the positive developments we have seen in recent years, and therefore I am pleased that this budget will hopefully be adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e216	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e221	What Wiborg calls the modernisation of politics, is really a systematic attack on organized labour. When the Progress Party had the Council of State in this area, we saw the biggest political strike against a government in recent times. One of the first governments did when it came to government offices, was cut off the union deduction. It confirms in the budget that there are no new measures to combat the crime of working life, which are just threatening organised working life. In today's business for a time, the Committee's chairman stated that he wanted to equalise unorganised enterprises and organised enterprises in terms of working time regulations — a proposal that is, in fact, trade unionism. However, on behalf of the Anniken Hauglie, Røe Isaksen dismissed this proposal on the questions put by the undersigned in the Questionnaire. My question to the chairman of the committee will therefore be: Is the Progress Party ready to give up this matter, or will they continue to fight for the proposal that Wiborg made in DN?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e230	The progress party wants to work for everyone. We believe that all workers, regardless of whether they are organised or not, are entitled to good support schemes that ensure that they are not exploited in the labour market. Then I find it sad that the Workers' Party only focuses on those who are organized. We believe that it is also important to focus on all those who are not organized, and make sure that they have good and safe frameworks, and I would like the Workers' Party to have done so too. I have to say that I react a little to the black paint of Norwegian working life. The vast majority of workers in Norway, even nine out of ten, are satisfied with the workplace. There is a good relationship between the employer and the employee in most jobs, and I think it is important that we highlight that. Then we should focus on the small minority of unprofessional actors, and we should stop them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e237	What Wiborg here calls black paint is perhaps the greatest threat to the safety of Norwegian workers we are facing – the great increase in labour-life crime, which the government in fact also acknowledges when they write that this represents a major challenge for organised labour and for the security of Norwegian jobs. It is comforting that Erlend Wiborg dismisses it as a problem by just calling it black paint instead of addressing the problems, as he should have done. The government is passive. They have no new measures against labour-related crime. Then he says that it is sad that the Workers' Party does not want to participate in what the Advance Party proposes, which will in reality mean a union break and that the individual employee of unorganized companies will be alone. It must mean that the Progress Party will continue to fight for the equality of unorganised enterprises with organised activities. Can Wiborg confirm that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e246	I have to say it uses relatively strong words, such as ‘trade union hugging’. Instead, we heard the black paint that I believe the Workers' Party is doing. If you ask workers in Norway if they believe that working life is significantly more brutal now than it was four years ago, I think most people don't have the opinion of the Workers' Party. Yes, the fight against crime at work is important to this government. That is why we have taken several steps, including: the a-krim centres. We have provided more controls in the workplace. We have ensured that there is better coordination between the various public authorities, so that, for example: Food surveillance reveals something, and it will be easier for the information to be transferred to other public authorities. So we have a targeted policy to stop the crime of working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e255	It is interesting to follow the representative Wiborg. In the opposition, the representative was very busy pointing out what people felt in everyday life. Now in position, the representative is very satisfied, and even goes so far that he says that Nav is now out of the red tape. I'm happy with the red tape in Nav. There has almost been a metamorphosis in the Progress Party during these years. My question is about benefits above the state budget, whether it is not the case that we need to have greater benefits over the state budget to ensure that everyone with full or partial working capacity is able to do so when we have free labour versus if we had a system of regulated labour immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e262	I also said in my post that we are not in the target of red tape in the public sector or Nav, but we are in the process of red tape, among other things. Nav, make sure to give more power and authority to the individual case handler. I think it's strange that the Center Party doesn't applaud it. The representative then takes up the challenges of labour immigration. Yes, immigration — regardless of whether it is labour or other immigration — creates challenges for society. Then it's important to grab hold of it. This government has really taken hold of the rest of immigration and has significantly reduced asylum arrivals in Norway. Then I find it a little strange to get this criticism from the representative Lundteg, who has opened up for Norway to accept 100,000 new refugees, and that it should be financed by the fact that most people are going to lose their wages.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e269	It is sad to experience that the Party of Advancement is resorting to completely false representations in order to try to defend itself. When it comes to what I said earlier, the representative is well aware of it. My question was very simple: today we have a free labour immigration system outside the Nordic region, i.e. in the EEA region. That's the theme. Does the Progress Party agree that a free-for-work system would require more State budget benefits in order to ensure that people with full or, not least, partial working capacity receive income-intensive work in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e277	As I said in my previous reply, there are challenges related to labour immigration. There are both advantages and disadvantages associated with it. This government has addressed several of the problematic areas of labour immigration and other immigration, including: in the case of welfare exports. Then the Centre Party has not been a special supporter of the government, and the Centre Party has even attacked the Progress Party when we have been clear that Norwegian benefits should mainly go to Norwegian citizens and others who live and work in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e282	The progress party was created on the basis that they are against taxes and charges and that they are the party for most people. Nevertheless, they themselves have introduced completely new taxes: taxes on termination benefits, taxes on mileage benefits, and now the last tax on diet allowance. All of this can well be counted on to the highest extent of the workforce most. The new taxes I have now mentioned, plus a number of other social cuts, are introduced to pay for a huge tax bond for the richest. Rich people aren't that many. They have also introduced a good deal of tax cuts from which the richest have received most. Is it so that they in government have swallowed up large camels and sacrificed people most for the economic elite?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e289	The whole premise for the question is wrong. It is not the case that the Progress Party is against all taxes and taxes. But it's true that we want the lowest possible tax burden in Norway, and we want most people to keep more of their own money. Being attacked by the Socialist Left Party that we don't cut enough in taxes and taxes seems to me to be particularly special. This government has ensured that an average Norwegian family with a full average income receives more than NOK 8 000 in lower taxes each year. We know that the representative Lerbreck and the Socialist Left not only want to increase taxes by the eight thousand dollars, but want further increases, which will really hit those who get up every morning, go to work, but have poorly paid jobs. I think that the representative Lerbreuk in his post will come in afterwards and tell me why she believes that ordinary people should receive increased taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e296	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e301	For the Workers' Party, it is important to get more people to work and less to social security. The Labour Party is a party for those who are at work, those who want to work, and who make sure that we take care of each other. In several areas, therefore, we have a draft budget that chooses a different direction from that of the government. Then I'm so free that I start with some examples that aren't from the budget of this committee, that while the government will have cut the commuter tax, the end-of-life tax and the deduction of expenses and expenses, the Workers' Party will secure the commuters, have tax-free termination benefits and have a deduction for expenses and lodging. There are small things, but it paints a larger picture of a government that, first of all, implements petty cuts and, secondly, does not see the importance of strengthening the rights of ordinary workers. Another example is the order of business. Then the government cut, we found the money, and I dare say that we let pressure on the negotiations between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. When you receive a daily allowance, you are required to be actively looking for a job, and a person becomes no longer actively looking for a job because of a cut in the daily allowance. One does not create opportunities for cut jobs. One does it through common effort, and it brings me to my next point. Today, almost one out of every three in employment is out of work. It doesn't work anymore. It frames the individual because work means maestering, it means self-sustaining, it means income, it means access to several strong communities, and it also frameworks our well-being, because we are involved in and finance the welfare of each other. At the same time, when we know that there has been a strong increase in the number of young people outside of work, it gives us a special responsibility, because it's the future they're talking about, and that's our future. When young people are out of work, there are often two aspects: competence and/or health. For competence first: In the education budget we have a number of proposals that will strengthen the work, for example: a professional billion for several apprenticeships, better equipment, more professional teachers. All of this means that there are several who complete, who exist, and who have a competence at the bottom that secures chiseling for the future. In addition, skills reform is important for those at work. It's all about being able to develop the skills needed to keep working. We have previously signaled that we want to launch the competence reform as early as 2018 in selected industries. We don't see that we have multiples for it. In terms of health and adaptability of work, we suggest, among other things: a completely new reform for young people, with a job guarantee. It's a proposal inspired by the Frischsenter's work, and it's about getting young people on graded disability benefits into relevant jobs as soon as possible. It's about getting as fast as possible to get a foothold in normal working life. We hope that during the ageing period we will be able to make this happen. Then, too, people have to be treated properly at work. It is strange to see a draft budget that is so precise on the problem description when it comes to social dumping and crime at work, and at the same time so little targeted at drugs. The Labour Party proposes to strengthen the financial musculoskeletal system for both the Labour Inspectorate, the Petroleum Inspectorate and the a-krimcentra. In total, we have $64 million. more to work against social dumping and the crime of working life. Together with stronger sanctions and efforts to increase the level of organisation, it is something that can make our working life better and safer for more people. We also have proposals to deal with later in the period, such as removing the general access to temporary additions, which have given greater unincorporatedness, and being able to introduce a temporary ban on renting. The sum of the proposals submitted by the Labour Party is significant for a safer working day. Finally, I take up the proposals from the Labour Party, including the loose proposal, No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e322	The representative of Hadia Tajik has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e329	The Labour Party claims that they created over 300 000 jobs when they were in government. It was at the same time that there was mainly good growth in the Norwegian economy, with an oil price up to $120 barrel. At the same time, there was an increase in the number of young people who were neither at work nor in education, from 47 000 to a total of 70 000 – I repeat: in an economy of growth. Under this government, the figure has stabilised and is now on its way down after a historic fall in the oil price, leading to increased unemployment. In other words, the Labour Party has relatively little credibility in employing Norwegian youth. According to the SSB, the total employment growth after 2008 also went to non-resident labour force, which LO considered to have forced Norwegian labour. If we look at youth unemployment, the Lo can actually have a point. So I'm really wondering, how did the Workers' Party manage to create jobs and, at the same time, to forge employment for Norwegian youth in an economy of growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e334	The representative Nordby Lunde claims that the Labour Party in government contributed to the creation of over 300,000 new jobs. No, that's a fact. It is also a fact that two thirds of them were created within private businesses. It's another reality we're facing now with Right in Government, where growth is primarily in the public sector – and it's not sustainable in the long term. We are forced to get more jobs in private businesses as well. Unfortunately, it is also a fact that since 2013, the number of young people has increased, while the Right has a seat in government. I haven't seen that there have been any significant suggestions from the Right on that. On the other hand, the working party has thought quite new and has proposals relating to a job guarantee for young people who are suffering from a graded disability. They may get into work rather than end up in permanent social security schemes. There is something on the right just trying to laugh. We haven't seen anything about new initiatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e341	So the number of young people who fell outside increased from 47,000 to 70,000 in the Workers' Party's watch in an economy of growth. That, I believe, gives little credibility in including young people outside the labour market. The Labour Party has launched an activity reform for young people who do not have an activity requirement and who force the municipalities to, among other things. employing young people, but only those with classified disability benefits born in or after 1990. I wonder, how many does this apply to? Nav wrote in October that the proportion of Nordics in general who live by Nav's benefits has never been lower than now. A new report from Proba’s social analysis shows that the municipalities that have immediately initiated government action, used the obligation of activity and made demands on young people, have reduced the number and number of people entering jobs or education. The right-wing believe that making demands is to care, but the working party is against the obligation of activity that we now see results. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e348	The working party wants to set up its requirements and set up. It's also a fact that it's always possible to make demands for activity linked to social assistance, and that there are a lot of municipalities that have benefited from it. Nevertheless, the Right has insisted that a law change be linked to this with social assistance. They're saying it and they're baffling it like a big and significant change. The reality is that they have tightened up the law, which does not have a real meaning, and without following up on the money that municipalities need to be able to really help the human beings. To the extent that the Right Party and the Progress Party are concerned about young people outside the labour market, it is strange to see that they have abolished the Youth Guarantee, which one had in order to follow up youth in a close and relevant way based on their situation. Instead, they have put in place a kind of youth effort, which is primarily about the fact that the young people who are already closer to working life can even more easily get into it, while the young people who are far from working have not got any better overtime at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e355	The working party is happy to criticize the government and government parties. Of course, it's the opposition's privilege to do that. The government was strongly criticized when we saw unemployment increase as a result of the large oil price drop. Now that the grips taken by the government and our cooperation parties have contributed to the fall in unemployment, the Workers' Party finds other areas in which they want to criticize the government. In the previous row, the focus was on youth unemployment, the increase in the number of young people unemployed and the obligation to work. The representative Tajik is fresh in the Labour and Social Committee, but in the previous period we had major discussions on the obligation of activity for them for less than 30 years, and the Workers' Party attacked the Progress Party and the Government for introducing an activity obligation – even if it works. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e363	I would like to reply to this one more time. I think that's the third time I've answered this question from the Right and the Representatives of the Progress Party. The working party is for us to make demands for activity. But we're also because we're dealing with that debt. The right and the right will only set requirements, leading to a tough rhetoric, but the reality of their proposal has not brought anything significant new to the municipalities. The ability to make demands for activity has been associated with social assistance all along. The Right Party and the Progress Party have failed again by failing to provide the municipalities with the means they need to actually follow up on these young people in the best possible way. I record again that the Progress Party wants some kind of honor for solving a crisis they don't think was any crisis. It's strange to see, but I almost just have to notice that they're doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e370	The ideology of the Labour Party is based on a well-regulated working life, tripartite cooperation, a social organisation that ensures a balance between labour supply and demand, and full employment with Norwegian wage and working conditions — that is, the Norwegian model. The centre party gives this its full support. Today, however, there is free access to skilled workers from countries with very poor pay and working conditions and high real unemployment rates. My question is therefore: Is this free labour immigration within the EEA – with the exception of the Nordic countries – a threat to a well-regulated working life and the Norwegian model?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e377	I want to go so far as to say that if one has a completely unregulated relationship with immigration, no matter what the basis of immigration, it will not only be a problem – it could be a threat. Therefore, it is important that one has a good policy for this. What is important is that the EEA Agreement only provides the framework for labour immigration from Europe. We, as Norwegian politicians, have a responsibility to use the action space within the EEA to regulate Norwegian working life, to keep the standard that we think it should hold. The working party has several proposals to achieve this. Among other things, we have made it clear in our party program that we want to incorporate ILO core conventions into human rights laws. It could give workers' rights a stronger legal weight against EEA legislation. The proposal we now have to deal with, for which the representative Lundteg is the case-speaker, associated with a temporary ban on renting, is also a way of regulating Norwegian working life when we see that there are specific industries that are particularly exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e382	I believe that both the representative Tajik and I are very much concerned with the interpretation of the tripartite cooperation as a berebel in the Norwegian welfare community. However, I must say that I am concerned about the degree of organisation in Norway, especially among young people, where it is quite divided. A good number of young people are members of a trade union and are busy with it, but there are also a lot of young people who don't even know what a trade union is. What do Tajik and the Labour Party mean is the way forward for tripartite cooperation in Norway? And what can the state contribute here?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e387	The tripartite collaboration is the starting point for the serious and good working life that we want in Norway, and I'm very happy with the cooperation we have with SV to get this very thing out. On a political level, we can do more things. One thing I think is that even young people in education have to learn about tripartite cooperation at school. I also mean that how we politicians make political changes has something to say about young people growing up having respect for the tripartite cooperation and thinking it's important or not. The Right Party and the Progress Party made quite significant changes to the labour-environment law, despite the fact that a whole side of the workforce was against it and that employers' side operators were deeply critical. Rather, we would like to clarify in the purpose paragraph of the Work Environment Act that the Work Environment Act should contribute to an organised working life and that we should strengthen the rights of organised labour by means of work environment legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e394	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e399	In January 2014, three months after I started meeting in Stortinget, I received a payment message from Nav. I have to admit that I did not understand anything, because I have never been employed in Nav. But then I understood that this was holiday money from being on leave in the first half of 2013. “Holiday pay for short-term unemployed is not a good use of taxpayers’ money, and it is not unsocial to remove it for the first year. In government, both in the years 2001–2005 and in the previous period, the right has proposed changes that strengthen the working line. The Labour Party extended the day-to-day pay system and eroded it by weakening the employment relationship, reducing day-to-days for people who had quit themselves and introducing holiday pay from the first year. So we're in a situation in Norway where we know that oil revenues are decreasing and there are increasing numbers of older people, so we need to both work more and work longer. In addition, we need to provide a sustainable welfare society that over time supports a robust social security network also for those who come after us. So we can't keep expanding and maximising social arrangements, or hollowing them out and weakening them. The right has always meant that the state should not try to be everything to everyone, but much for those who need it the most. It's important that the social security network captures those who really need it. If we try to extend the responsibility of the state for a long time, it confuses the personal responsibility, but also the help of those who really need it the most. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have submitted a budget for an active labour market policy, a stronger social security network and a well-functioning labour and welfare management. This follows up the investment in work, activity and conversion from previous years, which is now beginning to produce results. New analyses from Nav show that the proportion of people receiving social security is decreasing and that the exclusion is reduced. Measures to slow down the growth of health-related expenditure, such as the introduction of the activity requirement on sick pay in 2004, have been very effective. There is a large reduction in the proportion of young people aged 18-29 who receive Nav’s benefits from around 20 pst. in 1994 to about 12 p.m. today. The number and proportion of the population are declining for a long time outside the labour market. Policies work. The oil price shock that gave two years of weak growth is now replaced by increased growth, increased employment and lower unemployment. But as long as there's someone outside, we'll never be content. This is therefore a budget with a continuing high level of labour market action to improve individual job opportunities, to discourage long-term unemployment and to contribute to the integration of immigrants and other vulnerable groups into the labour market. I am not quite sure, but I mean to have heard that one in five meets their arrival at work. Work is more than work. It's community, mastering, inclusion and friendship. That's why we want as many participants as possible. Although the need for labour market measures is being reduced and we therefore propose a weak deceleration, more is being allocated to organized work for the disabled. The government is also proposing to continue national youth efforts, and a new report from Proba Social Analysis shows that the municipalities that have immediately started government action, used the obligation of activity and made demands on young people have got the number of people outside, down and down in jobs and education. The right considers that making demands is a matter of concern, and the results show that the government’s labour market policy is working. It's actually essential. The old AAP scheme did not work well enough, and this too has been made more work-oriented. It is a misguided policy that fewer people should be involved in the scheme and that the maximum social benefit period should be reduced so that persons in the scheme should receive faster and more individualised assistance. Nursing parents carry out a significant care mission for society, and therefore good framework conditions are important so that more people can care for the children who need it. A transitional arrangement has been established for foster parents receiving daily allowances or AAPs in the budget, but it has proved not to be feasible to extend the scheme further by 1 January 2018 because it has not been established how further legislative changes are linked to the concept of income and its importance for the definition of curtailment. The left has a proposal on the matter, which the Right will support. Aid and organisation are key measures to ensure independent life, equality, equal treatment and participation in society. For this reason, the government shares the assessment of the need to make adjustments in the current model to meet the needs of the future. Municipalities already largely manage the simple and high-frequency facilities system. We believe that transferring parts of the responsibility for aid policy from state to municipality provides better and more holistic services to users. No one in this room can talk with great credibility about trust in municipalities and municipal self-government if they today vote in favour of the proposal that the government should scrape out the plans to make the facility more efficient and put it closer to the user. It's doing users, especially those with the greatest needs, a great bear service. It is clarified that there are no plans to give the municipalities full responsibility for social assistance for the aid, either in the short or long term. In the future, we will have more elderly people and the need is increasing, while there will also be more users and more advanced tools. If they were to be in the same queue, it could affect both groups. The main challenge, especially for users with advanced needs, is the lack of ergot therapists in municipalities, not the resource allocation. The Ergoterape service becomes a statutory task for municipalities from 2020. The government has given a significant boost to the local economy, enabling municipalities to and should give priority to both ergotherapy services and distribution. Employment crime and unprofessional enterprises undermine serious enterprises and Norwegian jobs. This is serious, organised crime and of course must be combated. Under this government, a total of seven anti-crime centres have been established, which have been provided with funds. In other words, the government takes the crime of working life seriously and continues to follow it up. In 2016, joint controls were carried out in 3 200 establishments, more than twice as many as in the previous year. The budgets expect about 94 criminal actors to be out of play as a result of these controls. The government presented the strategy against the crime of working life in 2015, which has been developed after dialogue with the main social organisations and is regularly updated. The importance of a well-organised working life cannot be overestimated and requires efforts from all parties. The right considers the decline in the level of organisation to be worrying, but the parties themselves need to make sure that they are relevant to a modern working life. According to the YS work barometer, only 19 pst are reported. membership is too expensive, while a total of 29 pst. the trade unions do not believe in their interests, and 22 pst. are objectors of trade organisation. Then it may not be the tax deduction that is the problem, but the lack of renewal or the experience of organisation is the same as party association. The level of the quota itself is determined by the trade unions. The quota has increased a lot in the last decade, for example: in NITO, where the quota went from around NOK 3000 in 2006 to NOK 4400 in 2016, which is an increase of 47 pst. It's not just a political responsibility to make it attractive to organize. In the last four years, health cows have fallen, housing queues are almost gone, police per capita have increased, teacher refresher training has tripled, there are almost 500 more health sisters, and 2015 and 2016 were record years for business start-ups. The last thing is important – all the time we say to bet on qualification measures, so you qualify for a permanent job. Norway is doing well in international rankings. We're the second best in Europe on gay rights, and we're the second best on broadband in the world. We are ranked as the world's best country to grow old in, best country for children to grow up in, and recently went up three places to be drawn to the world's happiest country. There is a lot that is good in Norway. But as a committee, we do a lot of work on things that can get better. Everyone who contributes to that work, including stakeholders, social partners and individuals, deserves a great deal of thanks for the cooperation, but I would also like to thank the Committee for its cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e439	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e444	The freedom of the individual, the freedom of choice of the families – I expect that there are a few concepts that are recognizable for the representative Nordby Lunde. There are tabs that the Right often likes to raise high, but not in the case of parents with seriously ill children who need to have their parents with them, either at home or at hospital. What I'm asking is, why has the Right blinked out just this vulnerable group that is unable to know what's best for its children?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e451	I'm reacting a little bit to the production here. The truth is that the government has not only extended the scheme to more than 574 million, but has also added more than 574 million. kr more to the scheme. That just means that we want to give more opportunities to take care of their nurturing children. In the case of a further extension of the scheme, we believe that this cannot happen without an investigation, among other things. how it affects the employment relationship, how it affects the family economy and gender equality and integration, etc. That is why I am very pleased that on Monday the Stortinge actually adopted the Christian People's Party's proposal to investigate changes to the scheme even more. But the important thing is that we have put in place an extension of the system, and that several now fall under it, because the old system was perceived as very rigid and exclusive to many. So I'm glad the government went for that change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e460	I thank you for the answer and record that there was a lot of talk around the question I was really asking. But I can try out another theme, and see if it's possible to get more precise answers to it. Nordby Lunde said in his speech that the Right will support the Left's proposal for an extended transitional arrangement for foster parents who lose social security rights to be foster parents. It is stated in the Left’s proposal – and Heidi Nordby Lunde also said – that it is not feasible to extend the scheme further, in addition to those with redundancies and redundancies, by 1 January 2018, because no further legislative changes related to the concept of income and its importance for curtailment have been identified. My question is, why isn't it investigated?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e470	That's a good question. The most important thing is that the government has put in place a transitional system that is precisely ensuring the economy of these families. And as I said, foster parents carry out a significant care mission for society, and good framework conditions are important. In addition, the government has dropped a sample, which works with an investigation, but it is not ready until 2018. So we're waiting for the feedback from this sample, which is going to look at the whole of the framework conditions, not just the parts that the representative referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e477	I record that it was a good question. It was a good question, once again without an answer, so I tried to ask myself a third good question and see if I could get an answer to that. There is now a transitional arrangements for daily allowances and redundancy payments. What questions relating to the concept of income are different for foster parents who become disabled, abandoned or single dependants?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e484	Again, a transitional arrangement has been established in this budget for foster parents who have been included in the grading rules. So we have reduced a sample that should not only look at this, but at the whole of the framework conditions for foster parents, and that will deliver their settings in 2018. I believe that as long as there is a transitional regime in place, and there is a sample that has had an overall assessment of this, we can wait until it has concluded, and then come back to the Stortinget with a complete proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e489	Labour crime is widespread in Norway. People feel it's a joke. How it is cheating is unclear, and little is discovered. That's the way criminals are professionals in their profession, and that's probably the work criminals as well. So we are facing a very demanding and costly job for public authorities. The message from the control authorities to us is that there are a number of grey areas in legislation and legislation — a number of grey areas that make it difficult for control authorities and employers and employees to address and identify criminal offences. My question is, will the Right work to get rid of the Gray Zones, i.e. put in place a law and regulation that will make it easier to practice for all parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e498	Thank you for the question. The representative is interested in something very important, and I share the problem description far along the way, because, as I said in my post, working life crime and unprofessional businesses undermine Norwegian companies and serious jobs, and not least the Norwegian model. In 2015, together with the social partners, the government put forward a strategy against labour crime, which is in continuous development. As soon as new ideas are discovered, as soon as we see new issues, new measures and policies will be developed in this area, which should also help to remove the grey areas that might exist. Then there are probably some of the fields where today there are grey zones, where you don't immediately have the solutions that are going to. But this is something that is in continuous development. We also see that work crime is developing rapidly, and that we adapt to the solutions we present, so here we have to be on a continuous basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e507	Number of young people looking for, among others construction in the Oslo area, is critically low, at least thinking that it is important with Norwegian construction workers with professional competence. Many of the reasons for this are that the subject has lost a good deal of status. There are very few regular jobs and an unlikely number of job immigrants without professional competence in these workplaces. This makes the subject less attractive for Norwegian young people. I don't think Right is special to shut down the manning industry from this area, but the representatives from Right have admitted that there are major problems with unprofessional construction in the Oslo area. What is the solution to Right then, and what will they do to make more young people want to work in this industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e514	Thank you again for a good question. We agree that work crime and unprofessional enterprises are undermining serious businesses, and that of course must be combated. We're going to lack skilled workers in the future. These are forward-looking jobs. We want more young people to come here. This shows that we must combat the crime of working life, so I fully agree with the representative in that regard. But I do not agree that renting or temporary employment is part of the problem. I think that's part of the solution. Studies show, inter alia: about 60 pst. by young workers on a permanent basis in their first job. In general, there is not much renting in the labour market either. It's under 2 pst. of all annual works carried out by agency hires, including rentals from non-resident enterprises. So prohibition is not the way to go. But we see that there are major challenges in individual industries, and we have to tackle that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e525	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e530	We are now going to deal with a budget of about 445 billion. kr, or about one third of the entire State budget. No committee shall have the same size in the budget, nor shall any committee have more important posts for people, which require the solidarity of the Community. At the same time, the Labour and Social Committee is responsible for labour policy. Nothing is more important than that, as elected representatives, we facilitate people with a working capacity, full or partial, to obtain safe income to live on. Historically, labour policy is one of the main areas of conflict between parties. Poorly regulated working lives create imbalances in the supply and demand of labour and associated imbalances in the balance of power between those who live on their labour income, as employees or self-employed workers, and those who are employers or purchasers of the many supply of goods and services. Both society, industry and the many employees and maritime operators are losing in the view of the Centre Party on a weakly regulated working life. Such a working life provides less labour productivity, less trust, greater insecurity for income to live off, and family life also loses seas when working conditions and income become more unpredictable. For more and more parts of Norwegian working life, people experience that this is happening now, and that development needs to be reversed. It is the EEA Agreement on the free movement of workers from outside the Nordic countries, where pay and working conditions are much lower than in Norway, which has a very high real unemployment rate, which is the driving force behind this development, which weakens the security of Norwegian pay and working conditions and changes in power conditions, so that impersonal employers or goods and services buyers are able to concentrate on the work of the many. The right has had its place in this political conflict area, as well as today. No one should accuse the Right of Winging, but the consequence of the Right's ideology of weakly regulated working life they and we need to get clearer, so that conflicts and future elections become clearer. During this ageing period, the left has not given priority to being represented in the Labour and Social Committee. What has happened in the last period, from 2013 to 2017, shows that the need for a place, however, is not so great, because then Left appeared almost like a spearhead for an even more unregulated working life. That is why there is only a nuance difference between today's Left and Right Group leader in the Committee, Heidi Nordby Lunde, who calls himself «Right Wing Conservative». She is a former member of the Economic and Liberal Advancement Party. These are lines of work of the representative. From experience, we know in the Center Party what this means for fighting in terms of the Center Party's basic values. The central personality of the Christian People's Party in the formation of the party in 1933 was Nils Lavik from the Eksingedalen. For the party, the importance of a safe family life, and not least time for family, was important. This provided for a better organised working life with more balanced conditions of power. I have learned that these core values in the Christian People's Party are also strong today. The question during this magnification period therefore becomes how the Christian People's Party will manage the legacy of Lavik. Will strengthening the political forces that want a more well-organised working life with a stronger labour environment law, facilitating permanent employment for employers, and promoting this fundamental vision in all parts of the world of work? The centre party line is ready. We want regulated labour immigration from outside the Nordic countries, a stronger labour environment law, promote professional organisation, and we want to revitalise the debate by becoming more skilled ombudsmen and women for workers who experience the reality of working life. We are responsive to proposals for new and better solutions that promote greater safety and predictability in the workplace. It is not possible to achieve full employment and a well-organised labour market while at the same time free EEA immigration from outside the Nordic countries. Therefore, the Centre Party is concerned about how the EEA Agreement destroys working life and also helps to create political disdain. Many of the societal solutions on which we go to elections do not prove to be feasible because the ability to control and organise working life is weakened by the EEA Agreement. I would like to stress that it is not the individual worker from EEA countries who is the problem, but the free immigration system without any requirement for either the content of the employment contracts or housing, which undermines embarrassing conditions in Norwegian employment. Since 1954 Norway has lived well with a frontierless labour market in the Nordic region. This is because the Nordic countries have had quite the same standard of living and some equal pay and working conditions. The EU system of free labour migration from countries with high unemployment rates and very poor pay and working conditions is now driving all these hardworking workers to distort the balance between labour supply and demand in a growing number of large practical occupations in Norway. The power situation in Norwegian working life is thus fundamentally changed. We can't sit still and see that pay and working conditions that have been fought over 100 years in the trade movement are destroyed in a few years. That is why we need to follow this up consistently in all areas. The centre party has written extensive general comments. Our main focus is on well-organised working life, the fight against crime at work, the prioritisation of minimum pensioners, better health insurance schemes for seafarers and measures for the most disadvantaged. For the Central Party, Nav is a priority area where services need to be greatly improved by providing local Nav offices in municipalities with more professionals with the power to solve the difficult situation of people through direct contact with people who are struggling. This requires reforming Nav. The slogan ‘one dies into someone who needs it’ must become reality. Thus, the scope of staff in the specialised departments needs to be reduced in favour of a competent first line of more responsibility and authority. Nav is an organization with a budget – and I want to underline it – soon in line with the entire farm structure, which I have some knowledge of. So it is important to focus on the social mission of Nav, that it is solved with quality and efficiency. The person, the whole human being, who needs assistance in the field of leave, sickness, rehabilitation or financial assistance must be at the centre of experienced Nav professionals. The centre party has a number of changes in the budget. We want to promote the situation of the weakest people and therefore add budget money to 500 new permanent jobs – VTA – and we are making proposals together with SV that there should be a state-funded place for all young people leaving high school. Furthermore, we have redeployments of appropriations within Nav – 200 million. NOK to implement what I have just presented. We are going against a number of cuts in various social welfare schemes, which relate to people who are struggling. We're clear that the minimum pensioners need to be given greater priority. We are clear that pensioners should receive the pension rate if they need it. We are clear on the health pay system for seafaring traders needs to be improved. There are very few in this room who are aware that for a seafaring business there are 16 days of work, and after 16 days of work, there are 75 pst. sickness pay coverage. There is a stark difference between employees, and this is to the degrees of a disability, not least for women, in order to become a seafaring trader. The central party opposes the amendment of the State-funded aid scheme. We disagree with the government's assessment and have made proposals for a number of improvements within a system of state intervention. We go in to spend more money on rehabilitation and rehabilitation in the municipalities, 100 million. kr. We are opposed to removing the aid rate 0 from 1 July 2018, and we are also in favour of, of course, the government's proposal for changes to the day-to-day arrangements. Sick leave is a major challenge, not least public sector sick leave. Sick leave in municipalities and counties is close to 10 p.m. This meant a cost for municipalities, county councils and state in 2015 of nearly 22 billion. kr. There is a great need to focus on culture, management in the public sector, and we have commented on what has happened to sick leave at the White Sea care centre in Telemark, where sick leave is reduced by nearly 70 pst. as a result of competent, authoritative and inclusive managers. The child supplement in the disability benefit is another recurring and recurring point, and I just want to be quite clear on what the Center Party has said before, that society sometimes has to deal with benefits that give overall greater income than income before disability. This applies not least to the child supplement in the disability benefit. Here we can't set limits, as the government and the majority parties have done. Otherwise, I will deal with the proposals that the Centre Party has alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e570	The representative of Lundtigen has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e577	I'm going to ignore the fact that the self-appointed capitalist Lundtigen performed to mention liberalism and being a liberalist in negative order. But we see a historic turn of policy this fall. The tax debate and the financial debate have taught us that the Central Party wants to increase taxes more than the Workers' Party. At least I don't remember happening before. It's possible that the representative Lundtigen can remember a little bit longer in time for natural reasons than I can, but I think this is historical. The special thing about this is that in the last year, the Center Party has tried to be a more right-wing party, despite the fact that one has maintained the same socialist policy. My question is whether the truth now is that the Center Party is at the left of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e583	The center party is the center party, so it's very clear, and we're developing our policy in the tradition we're in. That I should be a marine capitalist – no, I haven't needed that, because from former Per-Christian Foss I've been appointed a non-capitalist, and I know that well. Being a capitalist, willing to correct market forces, is the good part of Norwegian tradition, it's the whole crisis settlement back in 1935. So to the tax, the representative here gives the impression that any tax is an increase in income tax for people. It's not like that. The Central Party has made proposals for increases, including: tax on financial undertakings, which are currently exempt from VAT. Such increases in taxation for the financial sector are wise, fair and necessary measures, there will be money from it, and therefore we have a significant amount.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e590	Now I guess Lundtigen confirmed that he has a better memory than I do – at least I can't remember what happened in 1935. But it's now that this government has cut the taxes. We've actually cut the taxes so much that a normal family is now left with NOK 10,000 more than they did before we went to government. There are several representatives from the left who describe this as small money, or pocket money – that this is money that does not monner. I believe that a krone less in tax is not a krone less in welfare, it is a krone more for leisure activities, for clothing and for holidays for families with children. My question will be whether Lundtägen also believes that NOK 10 000 is small money and pocket money.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e595	No, NOK 10,000 is not small money and pocket money, at least not for those who have little. If NOK 10,000 had been the tax bill for those who have NOK 170, it would have been a significant amount, but that's not what the government party stands for. What is the central party's fiscal policy line is tax by capacity, i.e. a progressive income tax, and a property tax that is an additional tax on a non-unemployed income in excess of a certain amount. That's our base, and there we are. This means that we are in favour of tax relief for those who are struggling, and those who have significant tax abilities, i.e. high income, have the opportunity to provide more for the community, when we look at private wealth and economic difficulties in financing school and health services around the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e602	I think we first have to clarify that Per Olaf Lundtegen was not present in 1935. But it could be tempting to ask if Per Olaf Lundtigen sees some positive elements of the EEA agreement, whether there is anything in his head that he thinks is positive about it. But now leave it. Now we're in the field of work and social affairs. I hear Lundteigen speaking with clear and concise dissent, and he has made a proposal – together with the Socialist Left – on a guarantee for VTA seats. Why does the representative Lundteg believe that such a guarantee would be a constructive contribution to providing more VTA sites?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e609	The EEA Agreement has several positive aspects: cultural cooperation, scientific cooperation. It's positive that it's developed further, there's no doubt about it. But having free movement of labour means more disadvantages than benefits. It is the responsibility of the Member States to ensure full employment. It also applies to those who only partially have the ability to work, and they come out very poorly today. The main concern of the centre party is that the regulated labour market ensures the income of the many. In the case of VTA, what is the situation is that a number of parents with high school graduates experience that one does not have a seamless transition to permanent work, so that one can have an almost decent life situation. That's what we want to confirm that they're going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e616	In order to dive a little more into what the representative Lundtigen used only 14 seconds to say something about, VTA places: isn't that how you get the so-called seamless transition that Lundtigen here talks about, that it quickly becomes a sleeping cushion, that you stay in the VTA places, instead of perhaps helping this youth out more quickly in a working life? Is that not a danger with the proposal that Mr Lundtigen has made today? Of course I'll think he doesn't mean it, but it could be interesting with a reflection around just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e621	I can refer to what is our proposal: ‘As of 1 August 2018, the Government will be asked to have clear legislation providing young people with the need for permanent work in such a state-funded place.’ [[VTA]] These are young people who are in the health situation that they are unfit for work. We are talking here about the weakest, who can get a job offer, which means that they can see light in the day when they wake up – because they have something to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e631	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e636	Getting people to work at the same time as taking good care of those who are not at work is the key to a society of small differences. We still have a lot of people who don't get a job, and a lot of people are long-term unemployed. It's very worrying that the government thinks that the best medicine against this is to introduce unsocial cuts rather than using the money in a more targeted way. As a society, we're most likely to be at work. There's a lot of agreement here in the hall. At the same time, as a society, we have a great responsibility to get this done. We in SV have proposed 342 million in our alternative budget. SEK to a real youth guarantee to get people to work. We want to ensure that every young person is well followed up and gets a good start on his/her wishes, whether it's completing a degree, getting help looking for a job or taking a letter. We can see in a report on TV2 that today's work training measures are not working. There are many young people who go to work for a long time, so to speak, not to move on. Many of these are good people who want to work. We in SV believe that facilitating more learning places and greater efforts to get more people to complete their education will be a better placement of the money. I think the government is overly passive, as a person placed in action looks better on the statistics, and the government is pleased with it. In addition to this, we have prioritised money for a strong commitment to equality and the fight against crime at work. Today's gender equality fight is largely about involuntary part-time work, and that is why we have invested 42 million in our alternative budget. kr for – at least well on the way – to overcome this problem. Labour crime is one of the greatest threats to our welfare society. Therefore, we are forced to take more active grips that work against it. We need to facilitate a more organized working life because we know that it is one of the most important steps to get a more serious working life. Here's the government on the fence, even if they say they're a few in the description. I see it as empty words when we do not see an increased priority for the Labour Inspectorate in the budget, nor do they do anything to get more people to organize themselves, either on one side or the other. Furthermore, we are strong opponents of all the unsocial cuts to those who already have at least one. It applies to single-parents, end-of-life taxes and increases the cost of childcare while child-care is at rest. All this frame has the least, most. We see clearly that those who have the least are now paying for the tax liability of those who already have a lot of money. We in SV will also lead a policy for the many – not for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e653	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e658	SV deserves great thanks for the job they have done for parents with seriously ill children, and a new composition of the Stortinget after the election has led the Stortinget to oblige the government to make a case during 2018. Then, unfortunately, we see that there is gradually developing a new kind of solar parliamentarianism, which is that the government is putting up with a tactic to avoid fulfilling the decision of the Storting in some matters that are important, among other things. for weak groups. It might look like it's also the case with care allowance. In any case, the right-wing spokesperson in the hiking hall said that this proposal was never going to be implemented. My question is: is SV ready to ensure that this decision is actually implemented if we are to experience new training from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e668	Thank you for the question. I can say yes, we are ready, but I also have to say that the Christian People's Party should be quite conscious of the responsibility they have with a call to the government in the way they have done. I believe that the greatest responsibility lies with them, but of course we have to make sure that it is done, as far as we can. Furthermore, I would like to mention that I do not believe that the Christian People's Party has seen the whole consequence of giving a year of waiting to get this law implemented. It has quite significant consequences for the most seriously asked families in these situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e675	Preventing youth from becoming passive is one of the most important things we can do. Young people outside school and working life must be caught up early. We know that it becomes more difficult to get into the working life the longer the alienation lasts. That's why the government is paying 100 million. kr on an enhanced youth effort in the 2018 budget. Then I see that in the SV's alternative budget, instead of the government's youth effort, one should have a so-called youth guarantee, which ensures young people under 25 years of age work, activity or qualification within three months. My question is, how should the SV guarantee actually work, and what is the practical difference between this guarantee and the government's youth effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e684	There is more money in this guarantee than there is in what is called from the government's side. Our guarantee will be much more individual-righted actions and individual follow-up runs from Nav. It costs a little more, and at the same time, we'll use a lot of money to increase the number of learning places, especially for those young people who need to complete them this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e689	This youth effort to the government replaces three previous guarantee schemes from the previous government, which did not work. These included: a report from FAFO in 2015 that concluded that the scheme should have been designed in a completely different way. That's what the government has now done, and that's how far the youth effort shows promising results. We see that young people not only get an activity plan, but they get an individualised job-oriented offer and are given even faster priority in Nav. What I'm really asking is what's going on with this new guarantee of SV, which is obviously going to work in a completely different way than the three guarantees worked under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e694	What I think the representative here refers to, that there are many more young people in activity and action, has just come up with a research report on how these labour market measures, many of which are on the labour market today, work. The report clearly shows that people who are on labour market measures, in an activity obligation imposed by the government, have more difficulty in getting jobs than those who are completely unemployed, or those who have jobs and are looking for new jobs. I can't quite see why the Tonning Riise representative is so happy with it. I also believe that it is easier to complete a course of study and take a letter about a real will than if one has a practical place that lasts for five years without further delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e699	SV talks a lot in his articles about cut as they are against, but there are several cut SV have stood for in this room. Several times there has been a debate about the curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners, and the Socialist Left Party went high on the track and was against the government reducing the curtailment, which meant that married and cohabiting pensioners receive NOK 8 000 to NOK 9 000 more. Since SV supports this principle of curtailment, my question is: is it relevant for SV to introduce a curtailment of health benefits, daily allowances or in other areas, or is it only the country's pensioners to be punished because they are married or cohabited?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e706	When it comes to curtailment, we probably saw that curtailment for married and cohesive pensioners would be more likely to fall on those who didn't have little money, and then had no alignment against those who really are bad at it. Otherwise, I can fully confirm that we are in favour of curtailment of sickness benefits or daily allowances and other arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e711	SV is quick to criticise the lack of heat in civil budgetary cooperation. It's repeated over and over again. But with this budget unit, we provide an increased income limit for the right to free core time in Kinderhagen, 533 500 kroner from 1 August 2018. Isn't this a change that SV might want to applaud more rather than criticise?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e716	There are several things that both the Left and the Christian People's Party have contributed to the budgetary negotiations, which have been better than the starting point. So if the representative feels he needs a pat on his shoulder for that, he'll get it from me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e721	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e726	In 1914, one of the great sons of the Left, Johan Castberg, said the following: "It has become increasingly strong that civilisation and progress require society as a whole to protect the child and thereby protect the future generation." This is my introduction to today's debate on the chapters of the State budget that fall under the labour and social chapters. We have two main tasks through that budget. One is to make sure that more people come to work, and the other is to help those who need it the most. These are groups that are weakest and that need the support of society. One thing that we've been prioritizing for a long time is to increase the number of permanent job placements, the so-called VTA scheme. We know how important these jobs are to them and how vital it is that we keep up with demand. This is a system that builds up under the line of work and gives dignity and meaning to a lot of people. That's why we're also proud that the budget agreement we found together with the government parties and the Christian People's Party increases the number by 200 places. Another group, dependent on public support for full participation in society, is visually impaired. The availability of adequate reading and secretarial assistance to those in need has been an important victory in budgetary negotiations. That is why we are also pleased that the maximum level is increasing today. In our day, Stortinget adopted a change in the care allowance scheme that doubled the number that could support the scheme in an incredibly difficult time, when the children are ill. The left is proud to have been part of that expansion, and even though we didn't win with all our primary positions at the time, we got an important exception from the time account for parents with children who have very serious diseases. We are pleased that the scheme has been further strengthened through the budgetary procedure, and that all those who are now able to access the scheme will receive 100 pst. compensation for up to five years. That the exemption from the 18-year-old limit for children with a disability in addition is reintroduced means too many and is a reason why we are proud today of a scheme that remained unchanged for several years with red-green rule. The budgetary unity we have now arrived at with the government parties and the Christian People's Party achieves many good goals. We are increasing efforts to reduce youth unemployment. Career centres focusing on young people, web portals and other youth-oriented measures will help those who are struggling to enter the labour market after completion of education and schooling. This will have important socio-economic implications which will in the long term be the main task of ensuring the sustainability of the welfare state. In the budget statement of the year, the government announced its wish to transfer the auxiliary responsibility to the municipalities. It has long been critical of the Left and Christian People's Party – for the Left, it is not the idea that the aid administration belongs at local level, but that today's municipal structure and local economy are unable to handle the task that the government now wants to impose on them. The left will always be in favour of more decentralisation of tasks, but only where appropriate. If a move would weaken the provision of help in Norway, it would make it more difficult for those who depend on the means to participate in employment and social life. It goes across the line of work we share as purposes on the civil side, and is why I don't go for that proposal. In our secured left-wing adoption of a unanimous request decision to ask the government to ensure that foster parents do not suffer a net loss in social security benefits as a result of their duties as foster parents. The Government has followed up the decision with a transitional mechanism that ensures far more against such losses, but all are not yet covered. Me and Left are disappointed that the government has not come any further in this matter, but understands that it is more complicated than initially assumed to ensure that no one suffers a net loss of social security benefits as a result of being a foster parent. I would therefore like to stress that the Left does not consider this request decision to be postponed and that we are going to re-examine it in the context of the revised national budget for 2018. We are a step on the right path, but a lot still needs to be done to achieve what I see as the attitude to a total increase: you should not risk losing in public benefits because you are at the disposal of foster parents. That is why I am pleased to have promoted a loose proposal today which sets a clear level of ambition for an important further development of the transitional regime. I started my post with a reference to Johan Castberg where he stressed that the children were the key to the success of future generations. This work is exactly what we have to do — by helping more young people in work, by creating new permanent jobs, or by improving the care system and allowances for foster parents. That is why I look forward to this debate and to adopting our proposal. I'll take up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e753	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e760	It is now clear that the Left will enter into negotiations with the Government with a view to joining the Government. When this became clear, party leader Trine Skei Grande said that they joined the government to implement ‘the great social project that is the freedom reform that Norway needs’. It was going to be a greener, rustier and more social liberal government with the Left in it. How does the Left's programme on sick pay cuts, disguised as harmonisation with the daily allowance level, fit into this major project?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e765	As the representative Hansen knows, it is that if we are to have enough for future generations over time, we need to target the welfare systems we have. We have always said that we will protect those who are chronically ill in connection with the sickness fund, but we have not reached the point where we have yet landed this. We haven't done that in this room either. We've always seen it from a generation-on-generation perspective, for if we're not willing to look at the welfare systems we have over time, we won't have enough for the next generations either. I believe that to the extent that Hansen agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e770	I notice that the Left uses the term "raders" in its rhetoric. What we've seen in the last four years is a very rough policy. One is that you spend a lot more money out of your mind than anyone has ever done before, and you've had very generous tax reliefs for people with very high wealth and very high incomes. The second is that there has been a rather targeted cut-off policy against the most disadvantaged, such as, among other things, having difficulty getting a foothold in working life. I would like to ask the representative from the Left if he can define a little more precisely the roughness that he believes this government and the Left will contribute towards the future. Is there a policy in the same direction, where differences are to increase, the most disadvantaged are to bear the burdens and the richest have more?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e775	The entrance to the question from the representative from SV is as I had expected in many ways. One could possibly have a hope that the representative from SV got what I asked her co-representative about in a previous line exchange, about what is a targeted, voice system. We're doing better, not least for the poorest or those with the lowest incomes, by, for example, raising the amount limit to NOK 533 500 for free core time. But based on my question, I understand that it is also wrong for the representative Andersen. But that's how we're going to distribute values. That means we have to have some values to distribute. If we tighten up on the business that Andersen's representative is clearly opposed to, there will be little value to distribute to public well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e782	Then I can ask the representative from the Left if he has read the OECD report from 2014. There, the OECD encourages Norway to better allocate, to increase taxes for those who have the most, to facilitate them for those who have the least, and to improve the benefits for those who have the least. The OECD then concludes that we will increase the value creation in Norway by about 25%. 9 pst. There is no contrast between helping better those who have a difficult life and making value. On the contrary – if we share more, we create more, because then people who have a difficult life will be able to use their powers on, for example. to acquire skills so that they can get a job at a later stage. Does the representative of the Left think that the OECD is in a customs situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e787	I hear that the representative of the Socialist Left Party believes that the targeted action we got together with the Christian People's Party and the government – to increase the limit of free core time to 533 500 kroner – is nothing. In my view, it is a very targeted measure. So it's like this, and I respect it, that me and Andersen's representative disagree on the question of values that must be created before they can be used in this country. I understand that in many ways it is the mantra of Andersen's representative. But there I and the representative disagree. I think we have to create values before we have something to distribute to everyone, and that's exactly what the Left has been doing in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e792	I asked the representative if he disagreed with the OECD, which has concluded that if we have a fairer distribution policy, we will also create more. It comes from the fact that when people who are having a hard time are able to get their ends to meet, they use their powers to acquire skills and maybe get on their feet, there are more people who will contribute to the creation of value. We have repeatedly asked the government to document how the increased tax havens of the richest contribute to the value creation in which the representative is clearly involved. They haven't been able to do that. On the contrary, the OECD agrees with the SV that the tax on those with a lot of money should be increased, precisely because it is then possible to create the well-being that allows more people to participate in the value added. The question is repeated: does the representative believe that the OECD is completely wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e797	I'll try to answer one more question. I think we have to create some values by having a business that creates those values. There I understand that the representative Andersen and I disagree. It is interesting when the representative brings this in with competence to create more values and, not least, to create the guidance from which those outside have a certain opportunity to make use of it. Then I think about the debates that Andersen and I had in ours, about municipal structure, which had given opportunities for even better professional competence around Norwegian municipalities. There is also the representative Andersen and I disagree, because that was not the wish of the representative Andersen. It's in many ways the same thing here today. So we don't have to create values until we divide them, in the sense of SV. I find that strange, and there we disagree, me and the representative Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e804	I record that the representative will not answer the question, whether the OECD or the fact that the government has not been able to demonstrate – or it is not possible to demonstrate – that this type of tax bill works in terms of creating the values mentioned by the representative. In addition, we have heard that, of course, there is a community merger to contribute to less poverty. I think we agree that many people lack skills to get a job today. Then I would like to ask the representative: Does the representative think it is wrong, what SV does when we ensure measures for several of those who today lack competence and are out of work, for example. Immigrant women, who the representative has now been involved in ensuring that their job skills are no longer available, because the legislation has been amended? Are there measures that are not relevant for more people to enter the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e811	Of course, many measures are important, but the basics of which I and the representative disagree are the views of private businesses. Nor have we fully agreed on how to ensure that competence throughout Norway. The same representative from the Socialist Left Party was very opposed to the fact that we should have broader competence in Norwegian child protection, etc. when we had these debates in ours, and went against community reunification. There we had the opportunity to give better skills, better opportunities to secure those who fall outside the systems, and also greater opportunities in the Norwegian labour market – including those who have a different national background than we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e817	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e822	The Christian People's Party will have as much work as possible. That is why we proposed to increase the apprenticeship grant in our alternative budget and to create more places of action and places of study. We feared, not least, that the government's proposal for cuts in the day-to-day pay system could push the unemployed further away from the labour market, and we opposed it. Nor would we support the cut in the contribution advance to lonely dependants. In addition, we proposed measures to combat child poverty and several long-term job creations. We also accepted the government's proposal to transfer aid liability from the state to the municipalities. However, our priority number one in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs budget was to improve the care system. The Christian People's Party believes that the care scheme is one of the most important matters the Stortinget has dealt with in the harvest, because it affects human dignity and the ability of families to care for sick children. The Christian People's Party voted against the government's tightening-up of our system, and we proposed significant improvements in our alternative budget. We took all of these matters into the budget negotiations. We are very pleased to have had an impact on many of the most important of these issues in the Budget Agreement with the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. In the care scheme, we had a positive impact on increasing compensation for parents from 66 p.m. to 100 pst. of previous income for the whole of the five-year period. In addition, we removed the 18-year-old limit for mentally retarded children, so that their parents can receive care allowance even after they reach the age of 18. Thus, we solved two major challenges in today's care scheme in the short term. Secondly, we had an impact on dropping the government's proposed cut in the day-to-day payment system. We feared that the proposal would increase the pressure on other benefits, such as social assistance or redundancy payments. The result could have been that more people were pushed further away from the labour market. The group that would have lost the right to day money with the government's proposal is probably people who already have pretty low payments and who already have an economic motivation to get into work. We prioritised the reversal of the daily allowance proposal higher than the termination allowance, and we must realize that we did not get an impact on the reintroduction of the tax exemption. Furthermore, we got to stop the government's proposal to cut the contribution advance scheme for single dependants, who would have hit many single dependants with revenues between approximately 400,000 and 500,000 kroner. We put in place targeted measures for children in low-income families. In addition, the Christian People's Party has had the benefit of 200 more permanent job placements, increased the maximum read and secretarial assistance for people with disabilities and strengthened the grant schemes for leisure and living conditions for people with disabilities. We did not reach agreement in the budget negotiations on the government's proposal to transfer aid liability from the state to the municipalities. The user organisations are strongly opposed, as is the Christian People's Party. In several ways, we have previously opposed such a transfer of responsibility, for fear of what it would have to say about the offer to the users. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the proposal to scrape out the plans for such a transfer of responsibility. The Christian People's Party supports the intention of the opposition's proposal for an evaluation of the reform. However, we believe that we need an evaluation first, and then we can come back to action on the basis of it. That is why we are promoting proposals for such an evaluation. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party supports the opposition's proposal for an evaluation of the competitive outsourcing of labour market measures in the sheltered sector. The Christian People's Party also supports the Left's proposal on the social security rights of foster parents as a follow-up to the Storting's decision in spring. Finally, we support the opposition's proposal to explore access to education while one is receiving a daily allowance. I take up the Christian People's Party's proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e850	The representative Steinar Reiten has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e857	I expect it to be a delay when the representative said that the Christian People's Party was in favour of as much work as possible. I suppose it is full employment that is also the parole of the Christian People's Party. My point is that in the formation of the Christian People's Party, the importance of a safe family life, and not least time for the family, was important. It has been the Christian People's Party's line through all the years – the interaction between family life and work life, so that you have income from working life, and that you have a work life that allows you to combine it with family life and thus have free time for the family in the evening and afternoon, and that you have a Sunday as a family day, not as a working day and the day of consumption. My question is: Will the Christian People's Party in the future strengthen the political forces that want to have a more well-organized working life, so that the ideology of the Christian People's Party can continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e866	I assume that the representative is looking for a number of proposals that have now been submitted for consideration in terms of temporary employment and hiring-in of labour. I record that there are also very different views in the opposition. There are many different suggestions to this effect. I can promise the representative Lundteg that we are very concerned about the question. Yes, we want a responsible and decent working life. We have a good dialogue both with the trade union movement and with the employer's side. We also record that the Ministry of State has taken an active line, and that there are issues about this to Stortinget. We have a line of responsibility and propriety in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e871	I thank you for the answer, which is uplifting. What is central is that we make every effort to provide both for the employer and for the employee or the employed person – that one can implement this in such a way that it pays for the employer to hire them firmly, that it is what is privately profitable, so that the law and the economy play together. Is this an understanding that the Christian People's Party also has?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e876	The principle of permanent employment has always been a key element of Norwegian employment policy. That is the broad cross-political agreement. As I said, with regard to the questions that the Storting will address during the fall, we are now in a phase where we collect information, we are thoroughly involved in this. Then we will conclude when those matters come to consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e881	I think the Christian People's Party deserves to be praised for many of the struggles they have taken against the government's unsocial cut, and one has won part of them. One of the last and important symbolic things we've been working on in the last few weeks is the matter of care allowance. We in SV had hoped that we could clarify this now, but we record that there should be another round on it, and the Christian People's Party has taken on a great responsibility by ensuring that this becomes as the majority in Stortinget wants. One of the points that have been problematic is that the Council of State and the government have systematically misinformed about a change that was made, namely that before you could have a new period of care when your child became terminally ill – for which time – without necessarily being registered as a new disease, but that it was the same permanent suffering. Can the Christian People's Party confirm that they want the arrangement at this point to be as it was before?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e890	I registered that the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde said in a reply that she was pleased that the Christian People's Party had made a proposal that the government should investigate the care allowance scheme. Then probably neither she nor the Right have read our proposal well enough. It says that we ask the government to come up with a proposal to extend the care allowance scheme. Then we record that the opposition is very busy right now. There are many proposals that have a high degree of complexity both in terms of expenditure and containment. The reason why we in the Christian People's Party want to wait with this is that we will get the investigations that need to be carried out. The question raised by the representative Karin Andersen is also expected to come as part of the investigation work when the matter is promoted for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e899	This answer gave cause for concern, because what I'm asking about is a scheme that was in the care scheme before. The group for which the care scheme was originally designed had this possibility. When the child got sick — over and over again, perhaps through childhood — they knew they were entitled to care allowance if the child had to lie in a hospital and there was perhaps a risk that the child would die. This arrangement has changed in the new one, so this is not something that needs to be re-examined. This has been like this before. There is a hole that has been created in the new system, where it is now required that a new disease occurs, which unfortunately is not too many of these children who experience this. It's about mother and father being able to work, but could know that they're safe to have care when they have to be with their child in such a situation, perhaps for – yes, I don't know for what time. Is it difficult for the Christian People's Party to conclude at this point now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e917	No, no, no. Christian People's Party and SV have a parallel view in this matter. I think I should quote the words of our proposal for safety: ‘During 2018, the government is asked to promote a separate case for the Stortinget to extend the care allowance scheme, with a right to 100 pst. compensation for previous income, so that care allowance can also be provided after 1 300 days of social assistance to persons who care for children under 18 years of age who have a disease or injury and who need continuous supervision and care [[...]] So this is a permanent system that will apply until the child is 18 years old, so that the issue is addressed. An investigation must in any case be carried out when a case is to be brought before Stortinget. But here, there is a full coincidence between SV and the Christian People's Party in the view of what the representative addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e927	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e932	Einar Haakaas has written the book «Black paint – criminals build Norway». It is a shocking evidence of organised crime and of the authorities' paralysis of action. The Labour Inspectorate operates today in a way that gives free play to the criminals, writes Haakaas, and at the same time treats seriously, which gets the brother of the controls, as if they were unprofessional. A recent report from the National Interterritorial Analysis and Intelligence Centre concluded that labour crime is growing and that immigration is one of the driving factors behind it. In doing so, we would believe that the Progress Party would seize this matter with both hands. But no, it is EEA immigration which, according to the Centre, allows labour-life crime in Norway. They are, to a small extent, asylum seekers, and it is not Islam at all. And then it'll be mouse silence from the Progress Party. You wonder if there is a sign on Sylvi Listhaug’s desk: ‘Do not disturb the EEA Agreement’. The book Black Painting is about how criminal networks have taken over parts of the paint industry. They operate with large-scale tax fraud through well-organised money laundering. This does not just happen in the paint industry. Renting and enterprising prices undermine everything we stand for, namely a well-organised working life, with secure income and permanent jobs, and where we solve challenges together. This is trade union sknusing, according to Federal Head Jan-Egil Pedersen in LO's NNN, Norwegian Federation of Merchant Workers. The Pedersen isn't the only one calling the alarm bells. It's a foothold for organized crime in construction, according to Kristine Beitland of the Food Security Council. Tore Skkelstadaune, who organises hotel and restaurant workers in Oslo, says: ‘If the authorities do not intervene and impose tough requirements, non-serious takeover of pubs, bars and nightclubs will take place. Call it criminals.’ What has emerged from wage and working conditions over 100 years is now rapidly destroyed in several industries by social dumping and crime at work. Nevertheless, we see that the government lacks both the ability and the will to take the necessary steps. Yes, action plans against social dumping have been put in place, but they do not meet with systematic social dumping and organised criminal networks. If we are to avoid a collapse for the Norwegian model in important industries, we must act now. If the Right is serious about being so-called nutritious, and if the Progress Party is serious about law and order, they should listen to and cooperate with the trade movement, rather than countering it, because the trade movement has both the competence and hundreds of thousands of potential alerts among its members in the workplaces around the country. That's why we in Red say that giving increased deductions from trade union quotas is for some sort of cheap civil protection to count, as parts of the private sector have now become. We propose to increase the trade union deduction in our draft state budget for 2018. In addition, we are proposing to strengthen the agencies to combat organised crime in our working life. That means strengthening the tax haven, Nav and the police, together with $60 million. and to set up several multidisciplinary centres for the crime of working life. In addition – and this we come back to after New Year – we want to put an end to the obscenity that we are seeing, with more and more rents, fewer and fewer permanent employees and more and more people who have no permanent job. Hopefully, we will take that into account after New Year's, but before New Year's, the budget is to be adopted, and then the government should soon see the seriousness and wake up from its deep towering sleep over Norwegian working life before it is too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e950	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e955	I would also like to welcome Mr Moxnes' representative to the first debate on the basis of the Labour and Social Committee. Since we've got a Communist party into Parliament, I've read a little bit about what this party stands for, among other things. in the Red's principal programme. On page 14, they mention that they want revolution and to abolish private property rights and thus also private jobs. Can the representative of Moxnes elaborate on how he intends to implement this, how he intends to replace all these jobs that we all depend on in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e964	We in Red think it's the people who work, who create the values. Those are the real values of our society, and we think something so radical that those who create the values should also be able to control the businesses they create the values in. So we're to extend democracy to work as well. We say that if you work in an enterprise and are able to vote in a decision-making process – choose the country’s government and growth – you should also be able to choose your own boss among peers and women. We disagree with the Progress Party, which wants the capital owners to have full governing rights when it is the employees – around the country, in the private sector and in the public sector – who create the values, not those who only take the values by ownership of the enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e971	I am at least pleased that the representative of Moxnes is honest that he does not initially want privately owned jobs in Norway, and that he will therefore also prohibit a person who wants to start a new job and give people work, to do so, even if we depend on it. There are actually some areas where the Progress Party and Red agree. We stood together in time when we warned against parts of the pension reform, and there are several reasons for this. An important area for retirement is the curtailment for married and cohabiting pensioners, that you get less in retirement only because you are married or cohabiting. This government, together with its supporting parties, has reduced this unsocial abbreviation from 15 pst. to 10 p.m., for strong protests from the other left. The question will then be: Will Red support the Progress Party in the fight to further reduce the curtailment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e980	In our proposal, we propose to increase pensions solidly for both single, married and cohabiting residents. We are opposed to the pension reform, which is primarily a reform that takes great values from those who have worked, worn and worn out in low-paid jobs, and shifts the money to those who can stand in the job until they are nearly 70 years old. Very few bus drivers, very few help nurses, very few who work in health care or on the floor of the industry, can work until they are 70 years old. So this reform is a reform that, in our view, is fundamentally unfair and in which we need to be corrected. But we have a government that governs on the basis of the reform, and that also defends the reform. But if the Progress Party now agrees with us that we need to correct the social imbalances resulting from the pension reform, I am very happy if they can support Red's sensible proposals in the Storting in order to rectify this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e988	The representative of Moxnes did not answer the question. The question went on for married and cohabiting pensioners. In the past it was 25 pst, and then we reduced it to 15 pst, and now we've got it further reduced to 10 pst. It is very good if the representative Moxnes can answer if Red believes that you should be paid less in a basic pension because you are married or live together.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e992	Red supports the vast majority of measures that ensure that the poor, those who have had low pensions, and those who currently have low pensions, will receive better pensions in the future – including measures that may come from a Right Party government. For us, the most important thing is to make sure that the major mechanisms of the reform, which now shift large amounts of pensions from low-paid, those who are forced to leave early, at about 62 years of age, to those who can be employed until they are nearly 70 years of age, are changed. If not, there is little change in the curtailment rules, because the large pensioner is forced to leave early because they are worn out, he/she suffers life-long reductions in his/her pension as a result of the rules of the pension reform. That's the main thing that needs to be corrected. If we don't get to do anything about it, unfortunately, other grips won't have any special effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e996	The representative Lundtigen – to start there – called criminals ‘professionals in his profession’ and it emanates in many ways the representative Moxnes further. There is no one who disagrees that one has to hit hard when we have what we can call criminal professionals in his profession – not least the Labour Inspectorate and others. But I could imagine drilling a little bit more in what the representative mentioned in his post on permanent employment. However, it is easier to get in, not least for young people — and I do not disagree that regular employment is definitely what we all hang out about. But how does the representative of Moxnes see that a young person is going to enter a working life where, in the municipal sector, only 10-15 pst. posts are often offered? Isn't it just the possibility to get in other ways than just regular employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1001	There will be no more jobs in society because it will be easier to fire people, and that is the main act done by the government, along with the Left and Christian People's Party. They have weakened the job protection system and made it more difficult to get a fixed position. If we are to get more people into work, we must, among other things, the priority of spending a lot of money on measures to ensure that more people get work. In our draft budget, we have an increase in employment measures by 730 million. kr, an increase in the allocations for flood and racial protection in the country by more than 600 million. kr and a continuation of the package of measures against unemployment of around 2 billion. kr. It will create jobs for many, including young people, and then the municipalities and county councils will have to pursue a completely different employment policy where they are serious and offer people permanent and full jobs. There we have a great job to do in municipalities and fill the country around.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1009	But isn't it that just getting out and getting the foot within the work of youth makes it easier? Can't what the representative of Moxnes now preach in many ways be a barrier to just young people without work experience, who may not be offered a full-time job, but just get the opportunity to enter the labour market through temporary employment, etc.? Isn't that what gives the opportunity, when we see that youth unemployment is perhaps the one that rises the most? Wouldn't it have been an idea to look at something different than having a government takeover of everything, which the representative also preached a little earlier today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1014	The last one is actually wrong. Remember, workers are also private individuals, so if they take over their business, they are still privately owned, not state owned. That said, there is nothing to suggest that weakening the job protection system and having fewer permanent jobs gives more jobs. There are probationary periods, of course, at most workplaces, but there is no empirical evidence that reducing access to permanent jobs leads to more young people entering work. What is needed is a policy where a person actually spends a lot of money on stimulating demand, and where one ensures that there are measures that can be taken to get work done. We're proposing a total of over three billion. kr over the budget spent on employment measures, on unemployment packages, to ensure that work on flood and racial security around the country – it is effective, rather than the tax cuts of the richest, on which the Left is involved, unfortunately, in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1021	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1026	The cornerstone of Norwegian society is high employment. It guarantees individuals against poverty and ensures the Community’s ability to take care of all. Our ability to maintain good, co-financed welfare systems in the future depends on everyone who can work, work. An ageing population puts increasing pressure on public finances, and the ability to cover growing expenditure through increased use of oil revenues will not be present in the same way as before. Based on the fact that the next generations will have a higher tax burden than we have today to cover the growing costs, it is unsolvable against future generations. A sustainable welfare society depends on more than today participating in the labour market. Norway continues to have a high level of employment in the international context, but in recent years it has fallen, particularly for men and young age groups. This is a development we're worried about. Of those who are out of work in Norway, most receive health-related benefits. The share is much higher than for a few decades ago. In addition to securing income, the schemes shall contribute to helping people get into work and activity. At that time, schemes must be designed so that they also motivate work, and pension systems must be such that it pays off to work longer. The labour market is also facing other challenges. A continued significant migration to Norway can be expected in the coming years. Many of them have relatively low skills, while those with a low level of education are already overrepresented among those who are out of work in Norway. Robotization and development of new technologies and digital solutions will affect more and more industries and professions, but it is uncertain how and to what extent. Low unemployment and high employment are government priorities. During the government period, we have provided budgets that have promoted work, activity and conversion. We see that the policy is working. Unemployment is falling, and the number of persons employed is increasing. A level of action that is well adapted to the labour market situation is important to help unemployed people with disabilities get into work and activity. An ongoing high level of labour market measures with a commitment in 2018 is foreseen to provide a basis for the implementation of some 72 500 action sites. This means a few fewer places for the unemployed, but approximately the same level for people with disabilities. It is important that the measures are relevant and contribute to getting people to work. In recent years, therefore, the government has started a completely necessary clean-up process by simplifying and reducing the number of measures, by raising the quality requirements, removing schemes that have been evaluated for failure, and using more of what has been evaluated for effectiveness. At the same time, we have gone away from controlling Nav on activity and more on results. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, the government proposes to increase the level of action for permanent organised work with around 300 seats in 2018. It gives an estimated total level of 10000 places. This will reduce the waiting time and help more people in the target population to achieve their residual working capacity. The government is continuing the reinforced effort for long-term unemployed beneficiaries introduced into the revised national budget and proposes to allocate 37 million. kr to this in 2018. The government launched a new nationwide youth effort in 2017, whereby jobseekers under 30 years of age who are not in work, education or other activity after eight weeks of unemployment are offered an individualised Nav follow-up offer. The contribution is continued in 2018 and the allocation is proposed to increase by 70 million. kr for closer follow-up. The social security network shall contribute to helping all to participate in the labour market and in other Community arenas of society. An important part of the work to strengthen the social security network is the provision of services to people with disabilities in working life, education and daily life. The Government contributes to this by proposing several measures in the area of emergency aid. A permanent service dog system shall be established for persons with physical disabilities in need of assistance for practical tasks in their everyday lives. The wig-salvation system is extended for them between 18 and 30 years, and the right to voice-to-salvation facilities through the people's security is made permanent. The Government has also proposed an extension of the right to read and secretarial assistance in daily life, and the budgetary agreement further strengthens the mechanism. In the autumn, the new care allowance scheme entered into force. Several are now covered by the scheme and it has become easier to combine care tasks with continuing participation in the labour market. Transitional arrangements were in place for the sickest who were already in the old scheme and an exemption provision was introduced if the child developed a new disease after the end of the care period. By means of the budgetary agreement, the level of compensation will be increased by 100 pst. compensation for the entire ordinary period of benefits. In addition, a derogation is introduced allowing care to be given to persons with mental retardation who are over 18 years of age and who are life-threatening or very seriously ill or injured. The government has also been asked to investigate more issues that could further improve the scheme and will return to Stortinget during 2018, in line with what was previously adopted this week. Well-functioning labour and welfare management is a prerequisite for achieving the objectives of labour and welfare policies for more people at work and fewer at work. Several processes have been launched to streamline the facility so that more resources can be moved to assist users in need of follow-up. ICT systems of the State of work and welfare shall be modernised. Project 2 of modernisation continues as planned and is set at 630 million. kr to this next year. New self-service solutions, process automation and organisational changes in the establishment are important measures that allow a greater proportion of resources to be used for users who need personal assistance and close follow-up from the Nav office. The government will facilitate a well-functioning working life with good working conditions and without the crime of working life. We therefore continue our efforts in the fight against crime at work through broad and sustained cooperation at the level of government. Experience shows that the established cooperation and co-location between the Labour Inspectorate, the Nav, the Skatetaten and the police have a good effect. The government’s strategy against crime at work is now being followed up, and several measures have been implemented and implemented. Work is being done, among other things: improving the information sharing between control modes, stricter procurement requirements are in place, and Norway has taken initiatives to strengthen European cooperation. There is a generally high level of safety, health and work environment in Norwegian petroleum activities, but in recent years there have also been safety challenges and some serious incidents. The government's ambition is that Norway will be the world leader in HMS. Operators in the industry must discharge their responsibilities for operations which are sound and in line with the legislation. It is important that technological development and industrial conversion should not lead to negative HMS impacts, either in the short or long term. Comprehensive and rapid technology development has also contributed to the increasing safety challenge of ICT technology. The Government therefore proposes a strengthening of Petroleum Monitoring for the follow-up of ICT security in the petroleum industry. The Government will present a new notification to Stortinget on HMS in the petroleum industry in 2018. The size will then have a good opportunity to discuss the challenges facing the sector in the future. Norway is facing a major shift in both the private and public sectors. We can't rely on oil revenue to the same extent as before. The state budget for 2018 is a budget for economic growth, more in jobs and a sustainable welfare society. It requires us a great responsibility to contribute to this, to ensure the opportunities of future generations for the same well-being that we ourselves appreciate so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1072	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1077	The action organisers Your development is well known in my county, in Rogaland, but also several other places in the country. They have been added to the creation of individual workers, and quite recently, the Employment and Welfare Act has asked the lawyer firm Wiersholm to look at the legality of their use of individual workers. Their assessment has now been known, i.e. that the contracts are illegal, and that your development as an action organiser must assign the directors normally in the company. My question is, what does the Council of State do to ensure that this actually happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1082	It is true that your Development has been a company that has been asked many questions about here in this room as well. These are the feedback and signals that came from the organization of your development, which is why Nav asked a law firm to review the circumstances that the representative addresses. Now the law firm has produced a report, which is also referred to by the representative. I assume that all the contracts that Nav contracts with external action organisers are in line with the law, and that the contracting actors comply with the employment law. I therefore assume that your development now employs its employees in line with the law, and that the contracts are also followed up from the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1087	This problem is bigger than your evolution. The extent of hired labour has increased, and it also appears to have been more common in new sectors — from construction to health and care. When it comes to the case of your Development, we also see something that the British even have a cover for, for which they call 'bogus self-employment' – and now we see it in Norway. The problem with this way of organizing is, among other things, that it causes them to add a lack of care, they also lack the impact on their work every day. So I often hear the Council of State say that she thinks that fixed addition should be the main rule in Norwegian working life. It's a very nice pardon, but I don't hear now that the Council of State has suggested that your Development and others operate with fixed additions instead of the organization they have today. But what I need to know is what the Council of States is going to do, what political initiative it is going to take to ensure that there are fixed additions that are the general rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1094	With regard to your development in concrete terms, it has now been revealed that the contract form there has not been in line with the law and regulation, and then it is obvious that it needs to be changed from your development. I also assume that Nav follows it up. Nav does not need any further clarification from my side; this should naturally follow up the Nav. So there was a question of renting more generally, whether it has increased or not. There has been no specific change in the use of temporary employment and renting in recent years. It has been relatively stable over several years. We see correctly that there is an increase in some industries, in particular the construction industry, mainly in the Oslo area. In terms of renting, the government has consulted several proposals on how to limit this. The hearing opinions went out earlier this fall. There is still considerable disagreement between employers and employees on how to do this, and here we are in dialogue with the parties. There is now a lot of research going on looking at forms of association, and we're going to get a bigger picture of what the situation is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1103	I feel that the council is talking a little bit away here. The question is quite simple: does the Council of State think that there is a problem that there is becoming a great deal of tenants in some sectors? Is the Council of State concerned that one is seeing this development? The last few days ago, we had large surveys several places related to an entirely concrete example of health and care. The evening post wrote about Orange, it also did Free Trade Movement. Is this something that concerns the Council of State, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that there are fixed additions that are the main rule in Norwegian working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1108	As I said, evolution has been very stable over many years. There have been very small changes in forms of association over many years, both in terms of temporary employment and rental. But then we see that in some industries there has been an increase, and in a way that is problematic. This is why the government has sent out several suggestions on how to tighten up renting, especially in those sectors where there is a problem. But what's important for me to stress is that we don't want to make it harder to rent into a place where there's no problem renting in. There is reason to recall that the use of temporary employment is greatest in the public sector, and that was the reason why the government proposed to amend the law on employees in the public sector, in order to limit the possibility of temporary employment by the public sector. That law paradoxically voted against the Workers' Party. Next year we will receive a major research work from the Fafo on forms of association in Norwegian working life. Then we get a greater knowledge of how this has evolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1114	The Council of State said that a higher tax burden was unsolvable — a rather special statement. What is the situation today is that the Norwegian community is using more than a servant, and if one does not increase the taxes, one will just pass on the costs to the next generation. That's what's unsolvable. Otherwise, the Council of State was concerned about the employment share of the population, which is being reduced, and that is worrying. For us in the Centre Party, it makes sense that the employment rate is reduced when you have significant unemployment, and when you have a free immigration system where people are willing to work for a completely different income than what is needed to live in Norway. If you're going to try to raise the employment rate in that situation, you're going to have to correct the enormous market forces that we're talking about here. Will it not involve greater expenditure on the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1121	The representative now gave Lundtigen the impression that the only way to finance the community is to increase taxes in order to avoid costs being passed on to the next generation. It's not. You can increase the taxes, or you can reduce the cost, or you can do a combination of both. This government believes it is important to also look at the expenditure side, how to make our well-being more sustainable. It is not always the case that increased taxes should be the answer to all problems, in which case there will be major challenges for future generations. So the EEA Agreement has been mainly good for Norway. It has opened up market opportunities for Norwegian companies that would not otherwise have been in existence, and it has been good for Norwegian citizens to be able to move freely across borders. I believe the EEA Agreement is good for Norway. So you have seen some challenges with, among other things. the criminality of work and unprofessional work. These are also issues that the government is concerned about, and which we are also working together in the EU to address, among other things. the directives to be drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1128	I am well aware that in order to balance a budget, it is about revenue and expenditure, and reduces a cost, getting a balance. But the government doesn't. The government is continuing to run on a growing imbalance between income and expenditure, and in such a situation it may not be wrong to have a higher tax intake in order to have a lower imbalance. Otherwise, I never get an answer to the questions about the weak aspects of the EEA Agreement. Now we're discussing professional participation. For me, the fact that participation in a job is falling when there is a high level of unemployment makes sense. The decline in participation when there are people who are willing to work under completely different pay and working conditions than what you need in Norway makes sense. If one of them is to correct the logical consequence of free labour migration, it is necessary to correct market forces, and it can be corrected by making a contribution from the State, so that we get more people to work. Won't that cost you more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1135	I am not sure whether I fully understand the question raised by the representative of Lundtegen. But first, the representative, Lundtigen, says that there is no contribution to reducing expenditure: the government is generally criticised for the cuts made in the budget, so if the representative now believes that we do not reduce the budgets, it is alarming. We're still getting rid of that with suggestions. Something you get through, something you don't get through, and that's the way it is when you want a majority in the Biggest. As far as the EEA Agreement is concerned, it is true, as the representative says, that the employment rate actually fell most when the unemployment rate was lowest, when Norway went that way. Two periods ago, the employment rate declined most, paradoxically enough. It was, as the representative was also involved, mainly because of labour immigration, but when you are a work immigrant to Norway, the Norwegian labour law applies to the person concerned. There are now major discussions in the EU about changing the broadcasting directive, which further tightens it up, and that will be in Norway’s favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1142	One of the worrying developments we are seeing now is that the incomes of those in Norway with low incomes are falling. This is the first time since the 1990s. This means that many more people are going to have trouble caring for their own income. Some of these are linked to the pressures and social dumping that are taking place in the world of work, as well as the government's tax policy, where they give large tax credits to those with high incomes, and only a few cents a day to those who earn little. Then the question to the government is: when they see the serious effects of e.g. they agree that more measures are needed to combat social dumping, for example: to increase the infringement fee a lot, so that it does not pay to underpay people?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1149	In the case of pay and tariffs, it is the responsibility of the parties to conclude agreements on the nature of remuneration in the respective workplaces. It is important to be cautious about interfering politically in wage and tariff matters. But it is true – as Andersen’s representative says – that there has been a decline in revenue. There are several reasons for this. One important reason is that we have had increased immigration. We know that the immigrant population is in the lower limit of income. Many come to Norway with two empty hands, it takes longer to get into the labour market and build up. But it is also a fact that the recent years of oil price reductions and increased unemployment have also helped to reduce income. Therefore, it has been important for the government to contribute to both creating more new jobs, securing the jobs that are, and ensuring high activity in the economy in order to secure jobs. In addition, we know that the most important thing we can do to prevent alienation among children and young people is just to make sure that we have a good school, but also that we have good welfare arrangements that reach those who need it the most, so that they can get back into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1158	The Christian People's Party believes that the care scheme is one of the most important things that the Storting has dealt with in the harvest, because it affects human dignity and the ability of families to care for sick children. We are pleased that we had a significant impact on that point in the budgetary agreement with the Government Parties and the Left. At the same time, the Christian People's Party notes with concern that representatives from the Right and the Advance Party have raised doubts about the fresh decision to ask the government to propose to remove the five-year limit in the scheme during 2018. Many affected families have become very concerned about these signals. Can the Council of State clear up doubts about the follow-up to this decision on the roll-out of the road?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1165	First, I would like to agree with the representative on the importance of the care scheme. This was a common civil initiative to significantly improve the provision of care because the old scheme was too poor. Among other things, it was not possible to get into the scheme if you had permanently ill children. This meant that large groups of sick children were exempt from a scheme. Now we're lucky to change that, and that's good for the families. It creates much more predictability for families who have been in a very, very difficult situation. We have also been further improved through the budgetary agreement, and there is also a decision in the Storting that the government will return with further improvement. The government has to do that. It is important to stress that no one will be adversely affected during the next year or year thereafter. All families will at least be safe for the next two and a half years. Then we're going to come back to the Storting with a good knowledge base, so that new decisions can be taken to further improve the scheme, in line with the Storting's intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1172	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1177	Tax policy is one of the really big issues of Norwegian policy. For the Right and the Advance Party, tax cuts are an end in themselves, but not for the most people, and especially for those who have the least. Employees and social security workers pay the price when the costs have to be reduced. The government sucks where it hurts the most – in those who have little from before. The 2018 budget shows that the tax fixation continues for the fifth year. The same is true of social security and social security. The working party considers this to be fundamentally unfair. People on daily pay are legally in favour of moaning. First, the Right Party and the Advance Party took the holiday money from them. Then there was a tax on the termination allowance, which is for older workers who lose their job because of bankruptcy, redundancy or illness. And as if that wasn't enough, they also get benefits from Nav. The Christian People's Party contributed last year to putting the foot partly down. The majority said, against the will of the Right Party and the Advance Party, that termination benefits should not be deducted from social security. But does the government follow up? No, they choose instead to challenge the Storting by suggesting that the draw in the social security will continue. It's pretty arrogant, especially to those who lose their jobs when they're old. And then we'll see if the Big Thing can take a pill on its nose. Another and similar example is foster parents. If the sick, the unemployed, the survivors or the lone dependants, the social security is cut because of the foster home allowance. In May a unanimous big thing said that this must end – as soon as possible. But even here, when children with a great need for stability and security are hit, the Right Party government chooses to challenge the Storting. After more than half a year, there will only be an amputated transitional arrangement for foster parents on lump sums and redundancy payments. Nursing parents who become illiterate, abandoned, or lonely dependants are not included. A permanent system is pushed out indefinitely. The government likes to call itself actionable. This is not a force for action, but deliberately affluence because the Right Party and the Advance Party do not want to. Unfortunately, the Labour Party was dismayed when, in our draft budget, we wanted to embrace all foster parents, as the Stortinget has decided. But we're trying again. We are proposing today that the government should now implement the unanimous decision of the Grand Duchy. In addition, we propose in the age of case No. 2 that the two groups within the amputated transitional arrangement shall be remunerated from the moment when the Stortinge took its unanimous decision. Unfortunately, it seems that the Storting bends off. On Monday we had a similar case – about care money. Again, the Christian People’s Party needed three more supportive ones. The level of coverage is increased; care should be provided for people with mental retardation after 18 years of age. The government was required to come back to Stortinget with a case that reintroduces the exemption from the five-year limitation for children with chronic diseases when there is a need. I hope this time we don't see any government training. In the summer Norway's Handicap Association presented the report ‘What does it cost to be disabled in Norway in 2017?’. Many people with disabilities have expenses that others do not think about. Ordinary everyday examples show that current additional costs can be in the order of NOK 100 000 per year. One-off costs for a family with a disabled child may be several million. At the same time, it was cut on the income side, in the basic and auxiliary benefits, for five consecutive years, hidden behind the lack of price adjustment. The number of disabled people excluded from work is at rest on site, but the Right and Advance Party have taken the car benefits from many of them. After the bad reform, everyone was supposed to get out like before, but we know that many have lost, especially those with debts, but also in the form of higher self-esteem and lost housing support. The right hand side and the right hand side won't even put the numbers on the table. Someone has to pay the price of high tax cuts. At the same time, the Right Party and the Advance Party want to assume responsibility for the facilities and the organisation of housing out of the rights-based public interest and over to the municipalities and the House Bank. The working party promotes, together with the Centre Party and the SV, proposals that the government scrape all such attempts. Fortunately, the Christian People's Party is again on the side of the disabled. Finally, I would like to highlight a group that deserves our attention with a more positive sign than under today's government – the growth in the number of young people unemployed. Yes, it is worrying, but the main concern lies in the hands of the individual. The Labour Party therefore promotes an offensive proposal for an activity reform in order to give them a place in the labour market. The Right Party and the Advance Party are opposed. Instead, they choose to cut the flat and much in the money to go to the auxiliary unit that is supposed to assist, among other things. These young people, the so-called ABE reform, which is really no reform, just cut. It's old-fashioned right-wing policy, which has never led anything good with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1194	Low unemployment and high employment are government priorities. Over the period, we have submitted budgets that have promoted work, activity and conversion. We see that the policy is working. In 2016, the proportion of the pre-age population receiving a living allowance was at its lowest level since 1992. Looking at the period as a whole, both the number and proportion of recipients were at the highest level in 2003. Since 2003, the share of social security benefits has fallen, with the exception of a temporary increase related to the financial crisis in 2009. Nevertheless, too many people are out of work. In many cases, exclusion is not about disability and disability, but about poor choices and having been misplaced from the edge of the jump. The government is fully focused on getting more people in work or education. If we are to be able to finance the welfare systems of the future, it is essential that we succeed in increasing professional participation and reducing the dependency on social benefits. The government therefore continues its efforts to strengthen the working line and to strengthen the incentives for a strong and continuous link with the world of work. Work is important for the welfare of individuals and for a sustainable welfare society. The right is clear that fixed employment is and becomes the general rule, but there are always exceptions. We must not forget that when, in the future, we are going to discuss the framework conditions for working life. It has been important for the Right in Government to lower the threshold into working life. This budget ensures a continuing high level of labour market action, and we continue to make it attractive for employers to include those outside. Nav’s experience shows that there are best-performing areas of private business practice. There's also the most likely job at the other end. The change in access to temporary jobs has been an important step in reducing the threshold into working life. People with holes in the CV do not queue first at advertised positions, then we have to have other tools. Labour market measures cannot be the only one. Therefore, it is important that we also in the future have management companies and staffing agencies on hand to get people out to work. In 2016, 80,000 jobs were received through a staffing agency. It was important. When we got into government, there were a number of different measures to get people into action. We have simplified these measures and targeted them, inter alia. by turning more towards wage subsidies in ordinary activities. In addition, a focus on BIO funds, which allows companies to convert, is provided by training and enhancing their skills internally within the enterprise. In the budget, the government has given priority to increasing Nav's freedom of action. A general objective is to make Nav more user-oriented and efficient. In order to help those who have been unemployed for a longer period of time ensure a job-oriented offer and increased transition to work, the government has increased the appropriation to the Employment and Welfare Act by 37.2 million. kr in 2018. The funds shall go to enhanced follow-up. The government has also provided for a more flexible labour market so that job seekers can better switch and qualify for job vacancies. Remuneration recipients have been granted increased access to education and to take up their own activities while receiving a daily allowance. There is an activity obligation for social assistance recipients under 30 years of age, the aim of which is to strengthen the individual’s ability to get into work and become self-sufficient. It is particularly important to help young people out of a passive life, and research shows that conditions of activity have a particularly good effect on young recipients. The best we can give to young people is a job to do when they're there newly educated and ready to meet a working life. In addition to including those who are outside, we need to make it possible for people to be able to do more work. The goal must be that we get to the point that a 50-year-old is attractive because of competence and experience, not that he is out of date because of age. Therefore, the reform of the Right that no one should go out to date is important. No one deserves to be out of date. We need more heads and hands in the future, because we face tighter times, and we need to become more effective. Competence and working life will go hand in hand. The government’s draft budget shall ensure economic growth, more in work and sustainable welfare arrangements. Our policy is to equip Norway for the future. Then we depend on everyone who wants and can work to get a job. We're changing to preserve. The government is strengthening its well-being today to secure Norway for the future. We are looking forward to the further discussions in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1218	The Progress Party and the Right have steered Norway safely over a demanding period of time. Despite a difficult period of the greatest oil price fall of 30 years, the biggest migration crisis since World War II and an increasingly alarming and unwieldy world, the Progress Party has been with and steering the country safely against a new optimism. From a situation of increasing unemployment, lower employment rates and Nav Rogaland’s highest registered unemployment, we now have a situation where unemployment has fallen nine months in a row, the number of people employed has increased, and Nav Rogaland has experienced a fall in unemployment of a total of 32 p.m. and a drop in youth unemployment. However, the opposition spreads just as much negativity as if the situation was as bad now, and it's probably about their project being more about criticism than about another policy. The government's policy has worked. Growth in the Norwegian economy is on its way up. Freedom goes down, and more jobs are created. Even though it's better for most people, it's not the situation for everyone. We're on the right track, but we have a way to go. For the individual who is unemployed, it does not help that the neighbor has got a job. Therefore, we target the effort with an additional follow-up of long-term unemployed people with about 40 million. kr. We have imposed an activity obligation on recipients of social assistance who are under 30 years of age. We do that because it works, and because making demands is to care. If no one cares what a do, why should a gadd? The left-hand side did not exactly meet this change with any cheers. As usual, there was only criticism, and the Workers' Party proposed to remove the money that the government would spend on the action. This week we could read some of the results. Nav Midtown in Red Trondheim reduced the number of young social welfare recipients by a total of 43 pst. in one and a half years. The drama municipality saved as much as 30 million. kr of two years as a result of the obligation to operate – or coercive work as SV called it. The same Nav office in Trondheim tells us that they are now working differently. A follow-up youth through early efforts and has close follow-up, and one mentions this as the key to success. "Some people said it would be difficult, but we were almost surprised when we saw how motivated most young people were to get to work quickly. They would start right away. If they have to wait a month, or get a list of jobs and apply for and then some refusals, then the motivation falls quickly.» This is what Kurt Reitan, who is the coordinator of Nav Midtown's activity obligation work for the social welfare recipients. The duty of activity has been a solid success for them for less than 30 years, and I see no reason why it should not be the same success for those over 30 years old. To make demands is to care, and since I'm approaching 30 myself, I want to say that we also have to care about those who are over 30. Therefore, they should also be given an activity obligation. A report produced by Nav Midtown between June last and October this year showed that one helped 100 young people aged 18-25. 83 of those cases are now closed. 60 pst. have received paid employment or started school, and for a total of 93 pst. of the cases, young people have become financially self-assisted. That's what this new youth effort for the government is all about: a targeted effort, which we're going to spend 100 million. kr for next year. For young people, it is important to get a foothold in the workplace. That's why we've lowered the threshold to get through a larger opening for temporary employment. That's because we know that the option for many is not fixed employment, but no employment. A foot within the workplace is better than two outside, especially for vulnerable groups. The mob project supports us in that. Different action providers support us in this, and we now see that there are measures that have a positive impact. Several people get a foot in the workplace. 50 pst. by those with a temporary job, receive a permanent job after one year. 30 pst. of which came from the holiday queue. That was the target. Youth must also be allowed to keep more of what they serve. The working party and SV would not reward young people who were on and getting work experience while other young people were on vacation or relaxed. That's what the Right Party government wants, and that's why we increased the free card limit to NOK 55 000 – tax credits for the richest and small money for ordinary people, who like to call it the left. I was earlier today that a normal family has received NOK 10 000 less in annual taxes with this government, and that is what the Workers' Party refers to as small money and pocket money. You have to start wondering what is normal income in the Workers' Party, when you think that 10,000 kroner for a family are small money. The most important thing we can do to get more people to work is to make sure that someone creates a job that someone can do. You don't do that with increased taxes. You almost have to be a member of the SV or the Workers' Party if you think that if a company gets less money, it will be easier for them to hire new ones or invest in new projects. No businesses I've ever talked to have asked for higher taxes. They usually answer two things when one asks what can help their industry: better infrastructure and lower costs through taxes. That's exactly what this government gives them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1247	Several have been involved in the debate on the importance of work. Keywords for it are own income, autonomy, health, self-respect, social economy and belonging to a community. Heidi Nordby Lunde was aware that one in five people met in the job context. It may be warmly recommended by the undersigned. In other words, there are many good reasons to make sure that everyone has a job, and for the Workers' Party, that's job number. 1st@item: inlistbox We continue our red thread in this budget, with proposals to create more jobs, to build bridges into working life for those who are outside today, and to make an effort for an inclusive working life. We do it through proposals that will contribute to jobs for everyone, that we have a working life for everyone, that we have well-being and spice layers, and that we have an organized working life with responsible trade unions and employers. This has been the support bar in the Norwegian model, and we want to strengthen that work. Many have supported this model over the years, but it has been social democracy and the trade movement that has been the driving force. This has also been the case in the other Nordic countries, and it has built a unique international success: societies that have been democratically stable, with a high proportion of people living in jobs, a high level of well-being, great adaptability and inclusive societies, and all Nordic countries are among the top 15 in terms of GDP per capita. Then, unfortunately, there are also a number of threats to Nordic and Norwegian success. One is the crime of working life. Although it represents a major threat to Norwegian jobs and serious enterprises, the government does not have a single new measure in this budget. And despite the fact that the government claims to continue their efforts, they are unable to answer concretely when we ask what this effort leads to. Another threat we see in Norway, the Nordic countries and Europe is lower levels of organisation. The government has contributed to this by cutting the trade union deduction and by weakening the dialogue with the social partners. A third challenge to this success is increasing disparities and increased polarisation in the labour market. Here, both the government’s tax policy and the government’s weakening of organised labour contributes to increased disparities and polarisation. In summary, the greatest threat to the Norwegian model, and our competitiveness through it, is today's government. Where the red-green government launched a number of action packages, including: against the financial crisis, today's government is passive, and it was passive in meeting falling oil prices. Where we protect workers, today's government comes under constant attack. And where we got into port major reforms such as, for example, pension reconciliation, today’s government is pushing ahead with the major challenges. Instead, they have had samples, constantly new investigations, and now, according to Nordby Lunde, they also have a sample under investigation. A very eloquent example is the way the representatives of the Right Party and the Progressive Party talk about the financial crisis and its management, and the fall in oil prices. It seems that they have a reasonable schizophrenic relationship with their own policies, because when there was increasing unemployment due to falling oil prices, it was solely due to falling oil prices. Politics had nothing to do with it. But now, when unemployment sinks, it's because politics works. Of course, this is not the case, and the question is that unemployment is now falling, more because oil prices are rising again than the government's efforts. Where the red-green government launched action packages of 20 billion. kr to create more jobs and get more jobs, rather use the right side 20 billion. kr on tax credit. It seems of course, it increases the differences, and it threatens the organized working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1270	Throughout generations, we have built together a welfare society that we can be proud of. We have good welfare services, small differences, high levels of education and many at work. Several times in recent years, Norway has been identified as the world’s best country to live in. This year, we also moved to the top of the list of the world’s happiest countries, although parts of the election campaign – and so far the last post before me – could give an impression of the opposite. We'd like to say that being born in Norway is a bit like winning in Lotto. It's possible, it is. We're lucky, we're growing up in Norway. But the reason why the Norwegian society has become like it has little to do with luck. It is primarily due to wise and responsible political decisions, and it is a great responsibility to manage this legacy. We live in a time when very much is changing. For every year that goes, we become more pensioners per person of working age. This is happening at the same time as the return on oil wealth is decreasing, the need to reduce emissions of harmful greenhouse gases is increasing, and new technologies are challenging us in new ways at an ever faster pace. That is how we meet these challenges, which will determine whether we are able to secure a sustainable welfare society even for the generations that come after us. The Prime Minister tends to say that politics is about people, not billions. I agree with that, but it is also the case that good policies for people require their billions. The budgetary chapters that we are discussing here in this matter are quite crucial for how many billions we have at our disposal in future budgets. If we are to be able to finance the welfare systems of the future, it is essential that we succeed in increasing the participation of the labour force and in reducing the dependency on social benefits. Our ability to help those who need the most in Velferds-Norway will increasingly depend on everyone who can work. Therefore, it is gratifying that developments in very many areas are now moving in the right direction. The number of persons employed is increasing — in the last year more than 30000 persons employed and in the national budget for 2018 it is estimated that employment will continue to increase as the activity of the economy continues. Unemployment is on its way down. It shows numbers from both SSB and Nav. In September 2017, the AKU unemployment rate was 4 pst., down from a peak of 5 pst. last year, and new Nav figures show that the unemployment rate has continued to fall in October and November. In 2016, the proportion of the pre-age population receiving a living allowance was at its lowest level since 1992. And while the number of young people who were neither at work nor in education increased dramatically under the previous government — from 47,000 in 2008 to 70,000 in 2013 — it has now stabilised. The proportion has remained at around 7 pst. since the government change, and despite the oil price drop and the conversion of the Norwegian economy that we are in, and now it shows that it is on its way down. I believe that this is a good budget for economic growth, more at work and more sustainable welfare systems. We continue to work to make benefits more workable. We strengthen young people's efforts in Nav, so that young people who are unemployed are given the necessary help to get into education and work, and we strengthen more facilities so that people with disabilities can participate more closely in the same way as others in everyday life and in education and work, in order to mention something. Then, in this debate – and we have already heard so far – we are going to get a lot of posts from the opposition that refer to a few billion here and there in different posts. Then I think it's worth considering that they're funded by applying a tax burden of at least 8 billion to Norwegian jobs. kr if one is to start the bidding round with the budget of the Workers' Party. Then I think it's worth remembering that even the world's best labour market measures will not succeed in giving someone a job that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1287	We should be glad that unemployment is falling, but we should be concerned that participation in the labour market is falling, because that means that more people are being pushed out of the labour market and that it is becoming more difficult for many – especially young people – to get their foothold on the labour market. It is not in this situation that labour market measures should be cut, as the government and the majority do. The need has not been reduced. There are too many unemployed people who need to find a new job and new skills. Refugees, young people and people with disabilities need such measures. These people needed the 2000 additional places the Labour Party has prioritised in its draft budget, places to help lock the unemployed back into the labour market, or help them to their first job. The proportion of young people who are not at work is high, and the number of young people who are at work is growing worryingly. For many, who have some work skills, still end up as 100 pst. completed. There are several reasons why they should be met in several areas. In our alternative budget, we propose a wide range of measures: a stronger priority for inclusion and health and competence measures for young people, a professional billionaire for more apprenticeships, better equipment at school, more vocational teachers, 3 000 more places of study and 300 more places of vocational education. We need to do more to break the evolution we are now seeing, with more and more young people ending up in disability. We launch an activity and job reform for young people on a graded disability basis and ask the government to come back to the Stortinget with proposals on how such a reform should be designed so that they can make the most of their working capacity in working life. Some tips on the way, so that this Council of State also does not start sending questions to the Stortinget: better planning, better follow-up, better implementation of the system of redundancy payments. We need to get young people, both with and without disabilities, into work – in ordinary and public employment. Local authorities must be given special responsibility. There is also a need for more creativity in order for labour market measures to deliver the best possible results. For this reason, the Workers' Party proposes to allow people with disabilities to take professional letters while participating in Work-Preparing Training. We believe that there is a need to look at the opportunities to open up something more in order to take education — including education that gives credit for study — while receiving daily allowances, and ask the government to investigate this. We were glad that the Christian People's Party seems to see it the same way. And we believe the rules should be amended, so that the unemployed under 30 years of age who have fallen out of high school can complete while they receive daily allowances. We also point out that the scheme of temporary wage subsidies needs to be adapted to include apprentices coming from a course of action. And we propose that better cooperation be ensured between education and working life, among other things. by increasing knowledge of the labour market in education and training. I'm sure it will make the way from education to work easier, it will give young people a clearer picture of what awaits them and is expected of them in their professional life. Under this government, the purchase of action sites and services from commercial enterprises has increased by over 50 pst. from 2013 to 2017. It is a development with worrying features. When Nav takes the step of ordering a legal assessment of the business model of the action provider Your Development, there is reason to stop and assess the experience. We believe this should be phased out, as we also suggest, and for which there is actually a majority in this room if we are to base the reactions when this started. Therefore, we ask the government to present the outcome of the evaluation of the competitive outsourcing of labour market measures in the protected sector in view of user involvement and the results achieved. Let me also point out that there is a greater need for places in permanent work. The budget agreement means 200 more places, we suggest 250 places. But both must be seen as a beginning. The need is greater. What we disagree with is that this responsibility should be added to the municipalities. That's why we ask the government to stop the experiment with such places under municipal control. All these measures should be given a majority, it would be a more powerful contribution to increasing employment and reducing social security, and it is the most important thing for the Workers' Party. Finally, I would just like to say that I am happy that the idea of moving the responsibility for the aid to the municipalities does not have a majority in this room, so these plans can the government run in the machine.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1315	The aim of the Workers' Party is to have as much work as possible, i.e. as much of the working population as possible in actual work — and in good and proper work. This is an important part of the discussion in which the workplaces will be located in the future. We are on the threshold of the fourth industrial revolution, how many different technological changes flow together and create a whole new working day. Digitalisation, automation, entirely new forms of manufacturing in industry and new material technologies are only key to this. We have to assume that those who are young today are going to have many different jobs during their careers. This happens at the same time as we're going through a green shift. Many jobs in today’s Norway are linked to the oil and gas industry, and this will be the case for many years to come. We're going to have a flow of revenue from the oil and gas industry for years to come, and a lot of jobs will be there. But we have to realize that eventually the work force of this will also decrease. This will happen before the cash flow to the country goes down, because as the exploration activity may be reduced because of changes in the long-term plan in this sector, many of the jobs related to the supplier industry and exploration activities will be lost, while those related to the operation of existing fields will be maintained – i.e. a continued cash flow to the country, but less employment effect. At the same time, new opportunities are emerging in both alternative energy and alternative energy use. There I imagine Norway can be in the forefront – if we see this early, we can be at the forefront of looking for jobs in the green economy. These are zero-emission and low-emission solutions in transport. There we are far ahead in some fields, and very much is in the air in other fields, for example. electrification of ship transport, hydrogen solutions, use of natural gas in a transitional phase – not least – and new hybrid solutions. There are many technological opportunities and many jobs associated with taking some of the best from the industry we have and creating, for example. offshore wind turbines, which are a future export option for Norway. In the circular economy and the sharing economy, there is also reason to believe that many new jobs can be created. One concrete example is that if, for resource and environmental reasons, we are better at repairing things instead of replacing them – and we can do that, for example. by maintaining long-term guarantee schemes, but also by making it easier to repair items already in use, the repair-related jobs will often be here, while the original product has been produced abroad, i.e. once again a positive job effect. The same applies, for example: management of waste, recovery, etc. In all of these areas, I think Norway can win the competition, but we don't win by ourselves. It's not that because you were lucky once, you'll still be lucky in the future as well. We have to take care of the best in what we have, and we have to build on it. Investing in research and development aimed at new technologies, and of which more work, is thinking about our tax policy and making it more green and stimulating for sensible choices, and using public procurement even more offensively to promote both innovation and good environmental weighting. These are good industrial policy, good labour policy, good environmental policy, good transport policy, etc. But the most important thing we have, and what in the past has really helped us to become rich together, that is, that we've taken collective action, is the Norwegian model. It is extremely important, and perhaps more important than ever, that the transformation we now have to deal with now takes place through tripartite cooperation and a good climate in the relationship between the state, workers and employers. It's a capital that no one can take from us, but that we can undermine ourselves if we don't take it with us also into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1332	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1337	There is no doubt that we have opportunities to create jobs we can live on in the future in Norway if we choose to spend the money and the effort on it. No one has ever spent that much money, nor of the oil revenues, like this government. At the same time, it's just the economic elite that avoids cutting. It's a completely systematic redistribution of government. They spend the money of the future and make those who have much, even more prosperous, without it being a single proof that it creates jobs. What we know is that it creates differences. It's given 160 times as much in tax relief to those with great fortunes as to ordinary people. Those who do not have income also experience cutbacks. I note that the Council of State also today says that you should motivate for work. I've heard that many times. I hear the government say it over and over again. But why is it that you think that those who have a lot are motivated by getting tax lights and more, while those who don't have needles in the wall and barely know how to fill the refrigerator, as well as being motivated and better off if they have to be worried every night about not being able to pay their bills. It's not like that. It's not true that we can't do anything about poverty. It's untrue that we can't afford, and it's not true that it will harm the economy and the willingness to contribute. On the contrary, if you help people in a difficult situation to cope with, that's what makes them capable of bringing together the cancers, for example. acquiring competence. There, SV believes that we need to step up our efforts — both by raising the income of these families and by raising their skills. I am very surprised that the government parties do not participate in part of the majority proposals of the committee, for example. how to increase your competence when you go to different performances. That's what you should get. You should get it any longer, and you should get a patient effort. Everyone talks about the highly skilled labour market, but it's not like you get a job if you don't have the skills the employer needs. It is possible to do something about poverty. It's just asking what we want to spend the money on. If we spend the money on lifting those who have difficulty, less will be poor, more will be much better, and economically the country will get into plus.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1350	By participating in the labour market, most people will be able to support themselves and their families and thus avoid poverty. That's why getting more people to work is so important to the Workers' Party. That's why it's so important to get people over from social security to work. The working party will enable more people to qualify for work. The working party prioritises it in its alternative budget, including: by strengthening Job shine. We want to make it a main task to enable municipalities and the working world to get people into work and participation. In our 2018 alternative budget, we therefore propose to strengthen Jobjeansen by 50 million. kr, in particular to strengthen the efforts to get migrant women who are not at work into work. Job opportunities were changed in June of this year, so that women receiving social assistance can no longer be part of the scheme. Instead of excluding women from the scheme, it is precisely those who currently rely on social assistance that should be given an alternative and a way into working life. That is why, together with the SV and the Center Party, we have proposed that the criteria for admission to the Job Show should be changed, so that even women receiving social assistance can become participants. Poverty and the possibility of own income and work are related. Participation in the labour market also offers better opportunities to be well integrated. Work is therefore essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1361	I heard the opening and line change here today, and the Progress Party and the representative Wiborg – as the committee leader – seem completely historyless. We know that the Progress Party has an explicit goal of tearing away the entire collective bargaining system as it is built up today. They have said that on several occasions. They do not want these collective agreements. They want to tear that system up. And what they want to tear up is the whole foundation of the Norwegian model, what created our welfare society. Tripartite cooperation is countered by the Progress Party. That's nothing new. What's new now is they're in the government offices and they're doing this. That's what's new. I note that many good proposals are being promoted here today. One of them is: ‘The Government is asked to authorise the State Road Administration and the Labour Inspectorate to require, together or separately, documentation from drivers of trucks and buses showing that their contract of employment is in line with general pay and working conditions.’ This is a very good proposal, which should have been unanimously approved in the Stortinget. It is possible that I have misunderstood, but I have understood it so that this will vote against the Advancement Party and the government parties. It's amazing, but it's going to fit into the sequence of what we recognize. The second proposal, which is a very good one, which is being raised here today, is proposal No. 3, from the Working Party and SV: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of labour crime centres covering the whole country and ensuring joint training and plans for them.’ This is also a very good proposal, which had made sure that we had come to life unprofessionally, which I realized that the representative Wiborg was very concerned about. But he votes, as I understand it, not for it. It's just to confirm once again: the progress party is not on the side of the usual worker. They're on a completely different side. The Progress Party does not stand on the side of tripartite cooperation, and they are still, unfortunately, with the chairman of such an important committee as the Labour and Social Committee, historyless on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1384	The working party is proposing 300 million. more than the government in its proposal for police and prosecution. The working party makes use of money to strengthen the a-crime centres and to strengthen the work of Ecocrime against the crime of working life. Criminals make a lot of money through work crime, and people are being cynically exploited. At the same time as society loses huge sums of taxes and taxes, legal professionals are being uncompetitive. We can't let these kind of criminals hold on. They're undermining our society. Therefore, we need to ensure that the police and the prosecution authority have enough resources to go after and investigate these matters. These are resource-intensive and comprehensive issues for the police, prosecution authorities and courts. We have to take that into account, and we in the Labour Party are doing that when we strengthen Ecocrime and the police districts in our alternative budgets. The government has deprived the police and police districts of the 2018 budget. I am afraid that this will also have consequences for the fight against crime at work. In Norway, every year, 12 billion are born. kr in taxes and taxes due to the criminality of work. A socio-economic analysis shows that there is a hidden value creation of nearly 28 billion. kr. Even though it is important to bet on the police, the police will never be able to win this fight alone. That's why cooperation with the a-krim centres is important, and there's a lot of work here that can be even better. The working party believes that the a-krim centres need to be strengthened and become more independent. Capacity should be built up so that the units involved in labour crime have the resources to address ongoing issues, so that the values of criminals can be taken more easily, and that operators operating with a fake ID can be more easily revealed. There needs to be more interdisciplinary, more cooperation across the floors than what we have today. The A-crime centres should cooperate better with universities and colleges and provide future building managers, business owners and other knowledge of what they need to do to ensure that criminals make the white economy gray. Because we also have to prevent, not just run after. Black work and the crime of working life are a huge social problem, with which there is an urgent need to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1397	Our most important task, perhaps, is to get more people to work. For the Labour Party, this has an important additional dimension, that people should have permanent, secure jobs. We are still getting reports that report that unemployment contracts are breaking down. We have tendencies towards A and B teams in the workplace, and in many industries, we see that the crime of working life is increasing to an extent and has become more and more serious. For this reason, it is disappointing, but perhaps not so surprising, that the government does not show in this budget the ability or willingness to promote measures that could reverse this trend. For us, the fight against social insecurity is about taking care of the Norwegian model, about a serious and organised working life, which after four years with the Right and the Progress Party in government is constantly being subjected to political attacks, with less security in the labour market as a result. This is also about taking care of trust and equality in society. In the same way as job security is a protection against greater differences, job security is the same. There's been a separation in society between those who have safe, whole settings, and those who don't. The Labour Party will fight for a serious and organized working life. If we're to do that, the authorities have to take their share of the responsibility. We therefore propose in our alternative budget a significant package of measures against labour crime, with the strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate, the Petroleum Control and the Ecocrime, stronger instruments and sanctions, and the contribution to the professional organisation of more people. The working party will extend the system of regional protection to include the transport and construction industry, to name a few. If we're going to reverse the evolution, we're going to have to be in front of it. New measures need to be kept under review and not least implemented. If we put one hole in the dam, the unprofessional actors dug a new day later. We need a completely different course and a change of pace in the fight for a safe and serious working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1413	Like the two previous speakers, I would like to take up the thread of Monday's debate on the budget for the justice sector. An important theme of the Workers' Party is the fight against social dumping and labour crime. This is another important distinction between the Right Party Government and the Labour Party, where we want more. Several speakers addressed this on Monday, but the Minister of Justice did not comment on it, so I hope for a better response from the Minister of Labour. The Right-wing-Fremskrit party government has closed all sections against organised crime in police districts. In our budget, the Labour Inspectorate does not even escape the so-called ABE reform, which is not a reform, but flattening cheese needs without objectives and priorities. It is worrying when we see the crime of working life spreading from industry to industry. Through the construction industry, cleaning, etc. criminal networks are now also on their way into the health and care sector. If they are discovered in one place, they move on to new businesses and new industries and undermine the foundations of the Norwegian welfare society. Serious employers cannot compete under such conditions. Wages and working conditions are weakened, we are affected as consumers, patient safety may be at risk. It requires action. The right-hand party government has followed up the red-green initiative on centres against labour-life crime, but it is too small. The Riksrevision has also pointed out that. During the consultation of the Labour and Social Committee on our budget for 2018, the criticism was quite unambiguous. Both employers’ organisations and employee’s organisations decided that there was too little investment. Several a-crime centres in the cities and criticism of the cut in the appropriations for the Labour Inspectorate went on again, among others. by the National Association of Construction Industries, which unfortunately has an in-depth knowledge of the consequences of the continuing development of labour-related crime. The Labour Party asked budgetary questions as to what new measures against labour crime are included in the 2018 budget. The answer was this year as last year: there are no proposed new bets. While more and more serious examples of social dumping, gross exploitation of workers and crime in Norwegian employment are being revealed, there is therefore no increase in government spending. Erna Solberg has taken initiatives to strengthen cooperation in Europe against a-crime, but this is not to be done. It's not entirely related, is it? The Labour Party added 64 million to its alternative budget. kr. divided between the Labour Inspectorate, the Petroleum Inspectorate, the Ecocrime, the Tax Administration, the tripartite industry programme, the Regional Protection Ombudsman and a new Centre for the Crime of Labour. We were shocked. Unfortunately, the fight against labour-life crime is still an area where there is a distinction between active red-green and passive dark blue policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1428	The left has fought for foster parents' rights for a long time. My colleague, Terje Breivik, has been an elusive questioner, and our proposal to introduce financial security and predictability for foster parents who receive benefits from Nav, formed the basis for the improvement we see today. We are not in the target, and on 11 May 2017, a request decision was taken, based on a proposal that was made in the pen by the former Plumb representative of the Left, Sveinung Rotevatn: ‘The government is requesting the prompt introduction of a transitional scheme for foster parents on social security benefits, which ensures that they do not lose out financially on being foster parents. The scheme shall apply until a new legislation on foster homes is in place.» The decision says ‘rapid’, and in the government’s draft budget, a transitional arrangement is in place for the recipients of redundancy payments and allowances. This is a good step in the right direction, but we're not yet in the goal. Victims of transitional benefits, survivors’ pensions and disability benefits are not covered by the new transitional arrangements. The requirement for the request decision was that no foster parent shall experience a net loss of social security benefits by being a parent. As it is today, foster parents who become illiterate will continue to lose support by continuing as foster parents. We need foster parents, it gives safe ports to the kids who need it the most, and that's why we've fought to put in place a transitional arrangement. The transitional regime is now in place, and I feel that the government parties agree with us that it needs to change during 2018, so that we meet the purpose of the Left's proposal that led to the request decision: that no one should lose social security benefits. This is the subject of a civil agreement, and we are going to implement it during 2018. We shall honor our foster parents, not weaken them. That is why we have put in place a transitional arrangement for those who receive benefits and redundancy payments, and that is why we are also going to put in place a scheme for the remaining beneficiaries by 2018. This is my ambition and the ambition of the Left. Today's explanation of vote: since we are not on the committee, we have been informed of what we are going to vote on today's drafts and committee positions. But in addition to the loose proposals, we will only vote on our own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1448	The representative, André N. Skkelstad, then made that clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1453	One third of the population in Norway is out of work, and differences between people are increasing. No later than two days ago, we received news from the SSB that there is now a significant real wage drop in Norway. We are facing major societal problems that we will face in the coming years. What I think has been the most striking thing about the whole harvest is that we do not hear a single concrete proposal from the Norwegian government on how to reverse the development we are now in and create a better society. Every time we've met major problems and major societal challenges in Norway since World War II, we've had a policy that's made sure that we take action when we're going to solve problems. In order to balance the possibility of studying, we established the Staten Lending Fund for Education. When we found the values in the North Sea, people – both here in the hall and in the government apparatus – were foresighting and understanding that we needed tools, for which Statoil is an example. It is important that we also have a business perspective on the debate on work, because it is something we have done in Norway in the past that is using natural resources, right from the moment we extract them – whether oil, fish or forest – until we are in the industrial hall. I see no concrete action from the government at that point. Then I also remember yesterday's debate, on transport, where the issue of broadband was almost ridiculed, and where they said, "Well, it can't be so dangerous if we're going to invest extra millions in broadband?" Well, that's very important. It's about today's infrastructure. Like the fact that power transmission in our country has been important in supporting the power-intensive industry, data transmission today is also an important prerequisite for industrial activity. Finn Song, who was one of the pioneers who participated in creating just Statoil, has given some very important considerations. One of his reflections from a long life for a better society in Norway, for the security of the population and for the better economy of ordinary people, is that there is a conflict in all societies between those who prioritise the community and those who are more concerned with personal gain. But I think that also part of those who are concerned with personal gain forget that there are those societies with distribution and little differences that are the best for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1464	A policy that counteracts economic differences is necessary both in order to ensure a genuine freedom of choice for individuals, in order to achieve a well-functioning society of small economic differences in a strong and broad community of interests and to promote trust, cooperation and competence. A relatively good distribution is one of Norway's main competitive advantages and has contributed to one having a workforce that is the most productive in the world. It is clearly the most important thing we can do to get more people to work, because in this area there are the biggest economic divisions going, between those inside and those outside the labour market. So it's very alarming when the employment goes down, and there's a lower proportion of adults in work now than it was 20 years ago. Another dividing line that increases differences is between those who have safe, whole and fixed settings and those who have poorly paid and insecure jobs. If we close ourselves to getting more staff to work, it will be an important contribution to reverse developments. The most important provision for new job growth is workers with the right skills. Young people, immigrants and low-skilled people, in particular, have become more demanding in the labour market. Lack of education and skills is one of the most important barriers to inclusion. Further training has become a basic competence for new people who want to enter the labour market. At the same time, we see that the number of adults without such training is increasing, and the drop-out among young people in the education process is high, especially in the professional field. In order to get unemployed, and in particular young people, into new activity, the Labour Party will implement a skills reform for the need to fill in the labour market, which is increasingly changing. We'll strengthen our professional skills by 1 billion. kr over four years in order to ensure better quality in training and apprenticeship places for all qualified persons. We will prioritize a thousand more teachers to the next year to get more elephants through the school run. And we will strengthen the inclusion work, among others. by means of measures aimed at employing migrant women living in their homes. At the end of the day, this is a matter of priority. What is it that we as a society choose to use our resources on? Little should be more important than the fact that young people with their whole lives come ahead of them through the course of education and receive support for entering the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1477	An orderly and well-organised working life is a fundamental pillar of Norwegian society. This is now under pressure. It is under pressure from a government that weakens acquired rights, that weakens the work environment law, that cuts in the coverage of food and losji, and that cuts off the union quota. An orderly and well-organised working life is also under pressure from the EU through the EEA Agreement, which overrides Norwegian labour law, Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and ILO conventions. Even decisions of the Supreme Court are set aside when the EEA stands in the way. State Council Hauglie said earlier today that the Labour Environment Act applies in Norway, also for those who come here from EU countries. No, the Working Environment Act does not fully apply to posted workers, either in the case of alerts, HMS, job protection or the right to discuss. We have to go in a different direction than your current government and the EEA agreement brings us. We need to strengthen occupational health and safety legislation, we need to strengthen professional organisation, among other things. by increasing the deduction of the trade union quota, and we must regulate labour immigration through the EEA. We must also strengthen the fight against crime at work. I hear representatives from a number of parties today expressing concern about developments in the field of labour-life crime. But it doesn't just keep expressing concern, one actually has to come up with measures. In this case, both the Labour Inspectorate, the Tax Agency, the Nav Control, the police, the UDI and the Petroleum Authority, as we in the Central Party do in our alternative budget – a total of 156 million. We have added kr in addition to what is in the budget of the majority. In addition, we will strengthen local police through an additional half billion kroner to the police districts, which will also contribute to increased control. And we're adding 200 million to the table. kr for enhanced border control. The Centre Party has a number of targeted measures to contribute to an orderly working life in Norway, as it also strengthens the opportunities for those who are not in the labour market today but who need to get in, among others. through permanent work. We also want to use national instruments and stand up to the EEA Agreement when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1492	In social media, LO-Currently had the following status this week: sick leave is halved, but the minister is not satisfied! This one should be brought with many. Then an article by the Free Trade Movement was published, with the title: Minister of Labour Hauglie will cancel the agreement on inclusive working life – equal to and including part. This is sharing fake news, and I think it's sad that LO uses such methods. At a time when we should really talk more about how we're going to get up the organizational level, LO continues to spread the scares propaganda and polarize the debate. It's not for the workers, it's not for society either. The right is concerned about sick leave, and we think it should be a priority target in the future to reduce this. Then it's a challenge that LO sees the world in black and white, and that they seem to have sick pay as the only way to keep people in work. Because it is a fact that one has not achieved the objectives of the IA Agreement. The figures show a fall in sick leave of 11.4 p.m. between 2nd quarter 2001 and 1st quarter 2017. This is a good piece under the 20 pst objective of the agreement. decline. The proportion of people with disabilities in work has also not increased. When LO attacks state councillor Hauglie to want to discuss these things, it's actually not for the better of working life. The experience of the IA Agreement shows that cooperation between the Parties has added value in itself and contributes to the development of society and the performance of its activities. The parties believe that cooperation has contributed to a change in attitudes and behaviour in the follow-up to the sick. We're talking much more today about going to work with what's healthy, instead of being home with what's sick. That's a good development. Some of the weaknesses of the agreement are that it is primarily designed to follow up those already in work. In society today, we have a challenge with the differences between those who are in the labour market and those who are out of work. The right considers that there is a competitive advantage to a well-organised and equalised high level of organisation of work. But then we have to talk about how we can increase the level of organisation, not just that it's important. It's a cross of thought that the YS in its work-life barometer finds that 40 pst. of the trade unions agree with the claim ‘trade unions are too closely linked to political parties’. Furthermore, Kaia Storvik, in the Agenda of the Tankesmien, says about challenges about the level of organisation of LO: ‘People are not familiar with the culture and rhetoric of the trade movement. Many associate the trade movement with conflict and working class. Recruitment to an organisation that appears to be influential, constructive and useful is easier.» I hope that the LO can contribute to a substantive and solution-oriented debate in the future. It's not necessarily that everything that comes from the government is a fury of the world of work. It might be worth reading and listening to what is actually being said, and not assuming. It will certainly strengthen the Norwegian model. We all share a desire to reduce sick leave. Let us then have a constructive and evidence-based dialogue on the instruments!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1516	The proposal to reduce the basis for daily allowances for them with some loose contact with the labour market is rejected by the budgetary conciliation. But there's a rematch. For it is now stated in the notes, which refer to the agreement, that the government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, will come back with proposals for changes that strengthen the working line. That's the same argument the government used for the proposal that was presented. So I just want to warn you that the Workers' Party will continue to fight against weakening the basis of daily pay if you come back with the corresponding or another proposal that means weakening. So the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde said in his speech that the state should not be everything for everyone, but for those who need it the most. No, the state should not be all for everyone, but the state should be something for everyone. For the state, the political tool we need to use to protect, through law and supervision, against, for example. social dumping and labour crime – to stick to the Committee’s work area. The State shall ensure educational and health facilities for all. There shall be no significant change in the main supports of this model of society until it cracks and cracks. Increasing disparities and weakening the level of organisation of work will weaken the ability to combat social dumping and labour crime. Increased differences will undermine the trust we have in Norwegian society, which is important. The model needs to be maintained and cared for, and it needs to be strengthened in response to new challenges. Finally, the Committee’s chairman said in his statement – or perhaps in the change of line – that they also focus on those who are not organised. What the Progress Party does not take over is the relationship of power between employee and employer. I would recommend reading the article by Parat-leader Hans-Erik Klüggerud in Today's Business yesterday, about the strength relationship between the employee and the employer. Ready, which is not the biggest link, has 14 lawyers working on employment issues. And it is clear that those who are organized in Parat have a much greater emphasis on employers than those who stand alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1525	It's a pretty violent ‘mismatch’ between life and learning when you hear a lot of the speeches coming from the opposition, and perhaps especially from the Workers' Party, in this debate. For example, there are representatives coming up here on the pulpit and showing that there are now 70 000 young people who are completely out of work or education. What they're not saying is that the whole growth came under the red-green. It was under the red-greens that a violent growth occurred, because from 2008 to 2013, 23 000 more young people fell completely out of work or education. Under this government, that number has actually been quite silent, so in that case, the criticism against us must be that we have not been sufficiently able to clean up after the growth that was under the red-green. Then we talk about the ability to create jobs and reduce exclusion in Norway. Then many representatives have been up here and shown, nostalgic, to the job growth under the red-green. However, Norwegian jobs were not created under the red-green – these 355,000 jobs were almost exclusively foreign labour. When the challenge is to manage to reduce exclusion in Norway and get more in Norway into work, it can be difficult to find a very good recipe for how to solve that challenge. The representative of Arild Grande talks about competitiveness – this government is the biggest threat to the Norwegian model and our competitiveness, said the representative of Grande. Yes, it's also a denial of dimensions. In 2013, the current Vice-Chancellor of Nordea, Steinar Juel, stated that Norway had never experienced such a sharp deterioration in competitiveness as in the years since 2005, when Norway fell from fifth place to tenth place on the list of countries where it is best to engage in business. We'll hear a huge indignant that we haven't prioritised as many new Akrim centers as, for example. The working party in this budget. But how many were there under the red-green? Then it was zero. It is under this government that a total of seven new Akrim centres have been established – two new ones only this year. So, finally, to the representative Karin Andersen, who doesn't understand the logic behind tax laws on the one hand and the line of work on the other: logic is very simple – job pays off. People who are at work should know that it pays more than not being at work. People who are not at work should know that being at work had paid off. And people who want to create new jobs should also know that it pays off. There is a very consistent and logical context in our policies in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1538	I note that the right-hand side representatives use considerable parts of their speaking time to talk about the snow that fell last year, while we are earnestly trying to make suggestions based on the situation we are in today. If it is the case that the Right Representative, who was just on the floor here, is concerned about the young unemployed, he is welcome to support the many proposals made by the Labour Party in the budget to help more young people get into activity, get into a programme, get into work. Then the invitation was sent – if they are serious about what they are actually saying. I think the debate has confirmed that the government has abdicated on the issue of working life crime. On our questions, they confirm that they do not have any new measures in the 2018 budget. The Council of State claims to continue its efforts, but it is wrong. Perhaps the most important tool we have against the crime of working life, the Labour Inspectorate, is actually cut off from the government's draft budget. When the government itself lacks power of action and initiative, one might expect them to appreciate that other parties took responsibility and made proposals, but neither do they. Our proposals are being put to the vote, including: the proposal to strengthen work on labour crime in the transport sector. I think that is discouraging. So to proposal No. 11, from the Workers' Party, which is also concerned with the criminality of work – as revealed in the last days' reports from the Dagbladet, which include: sees that two men with no food ban have operated as suppliers in tenders from the Municipality of Oslo, without being discovered. One has a life-long ban on nutrition after large-scale tax evasion, but it does not appear in public registers. The bankruptcy register, in which the other one stands, is effectively closed to the public. It should have been a narrow matter to open it, so that those who consider ordering orders from current candidates have the opportunity to discover whether this has been a criminal offence, and whether people have food bans. That is why we are promoting a proposal which is really in two parts. One part is about ensuring that the information contained in the Bankruptcy Register is made publicly available and the other about the government’s need to assess whether there is other information about offences relevant to the business sector that should be made publicly available. I see that the government's representatives in the media say that it is difficult to decide on this, because one would rather that this should be assessed. Yes, that is exactly what we are asking for in the proposal. Then we want this to be assessed: vote in favour of the motion by the Labour Party!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1551	It's said to hear a lot before your ears fall off. It was a saying I began to think about during this debate – when the Workers' Party withdrew into the crime of working life, made it high and dark and said that the government was not betting enough on this, and that the Workers' Party has answered. One of the biggest differences between the Workers' Party and the Government is, in fact, that you want a greater commitment to work-life crime. We also think that work-life crime is a very important area. Combating both that and undeclared work is about those who act unfairly and unreasonably, not competing with the others. It depends on everyone who has to pay taxes paying taxes. It is also true that if all those who were to pay taxes had done so, everyone else could pay a little less. But what I'm responding to is that in the case of the extra bet that the Workers' Party says they should carry out, and when they at the same time criticise the government, one must bring with him the history and facts here. One has gone from zero – not a single one – to seven, and only now, when there are seven pieces, does the Workers' Party come and is indignant that you haven't been able to get in place any more. It is, with respect to report, very little credible. Labour crime has become more widespread. It's gotten rougher and more complex. There's also an international dimension in this, which maybe wasn't as obvious before. That's why we've strengthened our efforts in this area and now much better coordinated. That's why we've come up with the idea of bringing together a lot of the skills in these work centres to stop the negative development. This has meant that both the police, the Tax Agency, the Nav, the Labour Inspectorate and other agencies can cooperate much better and more effectively than before. I think the Labour Party's and the rest of the opposition's criticism sometimes would have done a little better if they could sometimes say that Norway is good, that it's good work, and that the government has done something positive by setting up these seven centers. Then I think that people out there had listened a little better the times the Labour Party and others came up with criticism, while it now appears that no matter what the government does, it has to be criticised – because it is more important to come up with criticism than to come up with an alternative policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1565	I'm taking the challenge, I can say that Norway is good, and that seven work-life crime centers are good. But then I also want to say that we want more. That's the point. We want a strong bet. I have also reported that the Labour Party has been involved in spending more money to fight social dumping and against labour-life crime. It must be only right-wing people who think that economic muscles are good for private, but not good when it's public, that it's good when it's with people, but that it's not good when it's with the community. That's what I think is special. In addition to wanting to give the public bigger economic muscles to fight social dumping and crime at work, we are also making concrete proposals with a political content that is something different from what the government wants. Today, for example, we are making progress. proposals for decisions to provide the State Road Administration and the Labour Inspectorate, together or separately, with the possibility of requiring documentation from truck and bus drivers showing that their contract of employment is in line with general pay and working conditions, when they have control over road users. This could be an important measure. It's about intensive control of heavier vehicles. This will ensure a more level playing field and ensure better working conditions in the transport sector. This will be the right hand side and the right hand side will be the right hand side and the right hand side will be the right hand side and the right It would be useful to know why they don't want these kind of bets, which we really say to me is very necessary. Then I also register that Right is talking about getting the degree of organisation. The representative Hagerup was up here and talking about it for a long time, but I didn't hear about a single proposal from the Right about how one can help get this done. The Labour Party, on the other hand, wants to actively use policies to achieve this; we want to double the trade union deduction. We want to strengthen the role of organisations in the Working Environment Act. We believe that the major efforts of the labour force and Velferds-Noreg must be anchored by the social partners. We saw a very strong example when the Working Environment Act was being treated in the previous period, where the government only chose to stumble on. What could become the next example this time is the agreement on an inclusive working life, which the Council of State has said is not working, and which it is open to scrapping. The Labour Party believes that we can't find the solutions to the major challenges of working life without the participation of the parties. We have to make this together, we have to anchor it together, we have to implement it together. The Labour Party wants a new IA agreement, we want a better IA agreement. We must then also dare to discuss new proposals, for example. The Labour Party's proposal for a job guarantee for young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1580	The government does not adjust a number of social benefits in its government budget proposal. The centre party prioritizes this. That'll cost us $39 million. kr. We're pretty much alone about it. It is interesting that such important things do not receive the necessary attention, and I would appeal to the relevant stakeholder organisations to follow up on such issues that show how to prioritise in practice. Retirement is an important theme in the future. The initial rationale for the scheme is no longer adequate for the scheme as more and more people taking out the AFP do not work in typical hard-working occupations. Many of those currently benefiting from the scheme are resource-intensive people with good health, who continue to combine work with withdrawals of AFP and old age pensions. Therefore, the Central Party considers that there is a need for the State’s expenditure on the scheme, including the State’s share of the AFP payments in the future, as well as the design of the scheme itself, to be thoroughly discussed in order to achieve better targeting. As far as the Labour Inspectorate is concerned, many people have been involved. The government does not give priority to it in its budget, and the National Association of the Construction Industry of the NHO, in its consultation note to the Committee, said: ‘The proposal for a State budget does not strengthen the fight against labour market crime’. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have proposed better and stronger coordination of public oversight activities. We have put forward proposals to that effect. Norwegian lorry industry is important and employs about 35,000 drivers. There is widespread social dumping of pay and working conditions, and it goes from bad to worse. The Norwegian legislation on transport has become so extensive that maritime public agencies to check compliance with laws and regulations are short-lived, creating large grey areas that favour those who have unclean flour in the bag. The centre party is aware that in the current situation it is difficult to do something, but we have made proposals together with the Workers' Party and SV to improve the possibility of the Road Administration and the Labour Inspectorate in this area. But I would like to end by stressing that the major change that now needs to be resolved politically quickly is the introduction of a transport register with barcode. In order for a register to be as complete as possible, all transport vehicles must be registered at the border when they arrive in Norway, including those entering without cargo. This requires the use of police border crossings. Here the driver, valid driving licence, car and trailer registration number, time and date and first stop in Norway shall be recorded. The information is recorded in the database and the driver receives a document to accompany the car on its way forward in Norway. So we can control what's going on in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1595	In the SV budget, where we spend less oil money than the government, we spend much more money on creating new green jobs and on supporting the companies that are going to stand up. We strengthen the disadvantaged families, in particular the families with children, including, for example: the three Bs – child-restraints, housing support and child-supplements for the disabled. This we know would mean that more of them, and their children, could do well – and that they could get to work. But I'm recording that this is an ideological distinction, and that the right-hand side is still operating with this ideology where they clearly believe that there are differences between people, moral deevaluation of disadvantaged people, who must have a whip if they're going to want to cross some sticks, while the richest of us are going to get taxes in the million-dollar class without a single claim for profit from that money. There is no trick-down effect, it does not exist. This leads to greater differences. This is also true on the labour market. I could have talked about the work centres we set up when we were in government, there is no one who disagrees with it, there were several that were created then. But as far as social dumping is concerned, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left voted against all the important measures against social dumping when we were in government. It was about transparency, it was about solidarity, and it was about, for example. collective redress, which they have again taken away. And what's important about it? Well, it's when you're alone in a job where you feel that you're not getting the salary or the pension you're going to have, or it's sneezing and fantasy, and then a seafarer, like a temporary employee, may even have to hire him, has to take the matter up with the employer. If we want to have orderly conditions on the labour market, we have to give these kinds of instruments to the trade union movement, so that they can take this fight, because the individual can't stand in this alone. There is a difference of power between different groups and different people in society. If ordinary people are to be able to maintain pay and working conditions in the working life we have, we need to have arrangements that enable the trade union movement to do something, both in terms of transparency and in terms of standing up to a case, if an employer violates the rules. I record that this government is shifting both power and economic instruments to the richest elite and taking away from the most disadvantaged. And that's a direction SV disagrees with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1608	The representative Lise Christoffersen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1613	Just a few comments to the representative Toning Riise, who said that job growth under the red-greens meant nothing, because it did not create «Norwegian jobs», just jobs for immigrants. I refuse to believe that this is a Right's official view of value creation and labour immigration. The council will be up here soon, and I would like her to comment on that very thing. To the representative Simonsen: The undersigned said it was positive that the government followed up the red-green bet on a-krim centres, but what was my point was that there was a constant need for new initiatives to keep up with the criminal networks. Pleasure money -- the red-greens didn't do anything. Yes, we set up the Kaasa Committee. It presented its report in 2011, we went off in 2013, and then it went three and a half years before the new government showed up. I don't have any more time left, so I just want to say, "Thanks to the Christian People's Party for Proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox We support it subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1630	The representative André N. Skeleton has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1635	Regarding the proposal from the Workers' Party, which I only saw today, I have spent some time thinking through the implications of this. I should have liked to have it investigated, especially to look at what it implies for privacy. I understand that the proposer is not willing to do so. I fully support the intentions, although I am not quite able to see what this could imply for privacy. The left will then support proposal No. 11th from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1640	The representative Hadia Tajik had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1645	I just thought I would brief you briefly on the position of the Labour Party on the proposals of the Left and Christian People's Party. In the case of proposal No: 12, from the left, we felt absolutely that what is expressed in the first sentence is better than nothing, but from the premise in the rest of the proposal, we see that they actually accept that the government does not comply with a unanimous decision to raise the budget. That's why the Labour Party is going to vote against it. In the case of proposal No: 13, from the Christian People's Party, we want to support it subsidiaryly. Then I'd like to correct a curiousness in the setting. The Labour Party is, in fact, taking part in the vote on its proposal for Decision A III, point 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1656	There are a number of people who have taken up work on the crime of working life. Under this government, we have launched several offensive actions – two strategies together with the social partners – and seven centres have been established. But of course that's not all we've done – on the contrary. We have changed the public sector tendering and procurement regime, tightened this up, and we have made changes to the information-sharing law within, among other things, the social services law. Several changes are now under investigation. We're going to make changes for the clean-up industry – it's coming in the spring – to tighten it up. It's working on a serious record. We are going to make changes to the rental rules, and there is now a significant increase in competence in the Labour Inspectorate. Much will now be done to improve and further strengthen the work. Then there were some comments about the IA agreement and that I am willing to cancel the agreement. The concept of "scrotch" is now at the expense of today's economy. What was the starting point was a meeting with the social partners and the Employment and Pension Policy Council, where I wanted to air with the parties if they wanted to renegotiate the agreement or not, when it expires next year. I was completely open to whether to do it or not. I wanted to hear what the parties' views and considerations were. But what I said was that if we're going to renegotiate the agreement, we actually have to make significant changes that will make us achieve the goals. So far we've spent 21 billion. kr only by the State. We haven't achieved the targets for sick leave, we haven't moved a millimeter when it comes to getting them with disabilities at work, and the fact that older people are longer in work is not due to the IA agreement, but the pension reform. We need to achieve significantly better results when we spend so much resources on an agreement. The Labour Party has highlighted its job guarantee for young disabled people. We have calculated that the job guarantee in 2016 will include 187 young people. Of course, it's better than none, but 187 young people can hardly be called a major and important reform. To Lise Christoffersen and that job growth has mainly caused work immigrants – yes, it has. Job growth from 2008 onwards fell mainly among migrant workers. It's also documented by Fafo. There was, of course, also a reason why the employment rate among Norwegian births fell, but at the same time, labour migrants were important for Norway because they met a labour demand during the same period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1668	I also have to make some comments to resolve the matter. I would just like to make it clear first that the Christian People's Party supports loose proposal No. 12, from the left – that's what it's said. Then we have resolved proposal No. 11, from the Workers' Party, about this with the bankruptcy quarantine. It is true that, as of today, information is actually publicly available. Regulation on the register of bankruptcies § 3 nr. 12 determines that the register shall contain information on the subject of the bankruptcy quarantine, and the second paragraph of Section 5 of the Regulation requires the replacement right to send notice of the bankruptcy quarantine imposed. Anyone can contact the Bankruptcy Register and get acquainted with recorded information. However, the bankruptcy board questions whether those instruments are sufficient, because even if the debtor is removed as a member of the board of directors or the Executive Director of the Brønnøysund Register, he may in fact continue his duties, contrary to the quarantine. And it has not been given that shareholders and other board members keep themselves regularly informed about recorded information in the bankruptcy register. The bankruptcy board points to the possibility of making bankruptcy quarantine decisions more publicly available by means of publication e.g.: in Norwegian lighting magazines or on the Internet. It would be easier to give notice to the outside world, such as founders, shareholders and directors of the company, creditors and financial institutions, of the persons subject to bankruptcy quarantine and to prevent the debtor from functioning in the position of the company being subject to the quarantine. We also record that the NHO and the Consumer Council support the proposal and, like the Bankruptcy Council, have called for such publication for a long time. In doubt, we also support this proposal, because I must say that I do not think it is particularly good craftsmanship when I am on my way into the hall finding such a loose proposal lying outside here, and during the negotiations in Stortinget I have to try to get into the substance, what the matter really applies. Because it can't be that we have to decide on questions here in the hall that are really based on the newspaper headlines, which not everyone here has been given the opportunity to read. But we support this resolution by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1679	The debate is getting closer to the end, but I want to correct a few of the claims that have come, especially from the Labour Party against the Progress Party, that we are against the tripartite cooperation. That's wrong. I thought I'd clarify it once and for all. We are positive about tripartite cooperation, but unlike the Workers' Party, we believe that tripartite cooperation should include all workers – not only those organised in the LO, but also those organised in other federations. That's what's important for us to point out. It has also been claimed that we are against tariff agreements. That's wrong. We're too free of contract. I could still do that. The Progress Party believes that we should create a framework that is adapted to all workers, regardless of whether they are organised or unorganised. Everyone shall be able to be confident that they have an orderly job, regardless of whether they choose to be organised or not. So to solve the suggestions. The Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of the resolution by the Left. With regard to the proposal by the representative of Hadia Tajik and the Labour Party on the bankruptcy quarantine, it is a proposal that the Progress Party supports the intention behind, which we have also announced in the past. But like several other speakers, we think it is a little unprofessional – if you can say so – to come up with this as a loose proposal without more thorough investigation, etc. But the proposal seems to have a majority here today, and the Progress Party will then support it, because we support the intention. But we believe it is important that, when they look at it, the government carefully assesses the data protection legislation, which has been mentioned, and several other challenges this may pose for other laws. But the intention is very important for the Progress Party, and what we've been clear about is that unprofessional actors, actors who break the bankruptcy quarantine they've been given, have nothing to do in Norwegian working life. In view of this, we are going to support the proposal, but it is important that we go through all the challenges the proposal can pose.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1694	The representative Kristian Toning Riise has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1699	It was to the representative of Christoffersen: labour immigration is fine – I have never said anything but that – it needs Norwegian economy. However, in a debate on how to reduce exclusion in Norway and get more of the young people under 30 in Norway who are waiting to enter the labour market, into the labour market, it does not help to show a history of immigration. There are no young people in Norway working for more labour immigration. So here, the Workers' Party refers to a story that does not serve their cause in this particular case. Finally, the representative Karin Andersen: SV is very proud that they have a lot of companies with a post on the state budget. I don't think it's that impressive. I want more companies that contribute to the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1706	The representative of Arild Grande has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1711	I record that the right-hand side clings to as an effort they have made in the fight against work crime, is the establishment of the a-crime centres. It came as an idea through the Red-Green Action Plan against social dumping, and it has probably come into place largely through budgetary agreements and not as a result of government proposals — enough about it. I will end my measured time by expressing great joy at the fact that it is now approaching a broad conclusion on proposal No. 11th from the Workers' Party. It is not new that we can promote solutions in dealing with a matter in Stortinget, but we should have had it in the setting and worked on it there. The disclosures that appeared in the newspaper came after the Committee’s budget position, which is why this procedure. I am glad that sometimes we can also see examples of the Storting's ability to deal with issues that arise, and that there are no formal rules that prevent us from being able to show the power of action in such an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1718	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1723	The central party writes in the setting that it is not possible to achieve full employment and a well-organised working life while at the same time being free immigration from EEA countries outside the Nordic region. Neither Svein Roald Hansen nor the representative Espen Barth Eide discussed this statement and made his views known. It is necessary in the next debate, because this is not going to happen. My claim is that professional participation is going to go further and conditions are getting worse in more professions if we do not take a fundamental debate on replacing free labour immigration with controlled labour immigration. Here the market forces must be corrected by us elected people. It should be the Labour Party's policy, and the alternative will hurt for the future of the party if not discussed. Then to a explanation of vote: the central party votes in favour of proposal No. 11, we are voting against proposal No. 12 and we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1732	There have been some requests regarding things I did not get affected in my first post. The working party calls for, inter alia: new initiatives — that is what is very important, whether it is in the field of labour-related crime or measures for young people. What we see in the Right is that we have succeeded in distorting the policy that managed to create 300,000 jobs, while the number of young people who fell outside went from 47,000 to 70,000. Employment fell, which LO believed was due to labour immigration requiring Norwegian labour. If I remember correctly – from the Stortinges Investigation Section – there was a self-reported peak in the purchase of black work in 2009, even under the red-green ones. Both Tajik and Svein Roald Hansen were within the Labour Party's top measures, namely that they are to be hired by the municipality after 1990 with classified disability benefits, and called for more measures from us when this was the case. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has looked at this, and the Labour Party’s major reform to include young people would apply to around 187 people. At the same time, we see from the Nav reports that outsiders go down, and those who are out of work are getting fewer. Proba social analysis shows that the measures taken by the government towards young people work. The number of people applying for social security is also falling, and more people are going to school or work. So the right-hand side would rather apply the measures that we see actually produce results. We also discussed how we create jobs and fiscal policies. I was really very happy that the representative Barth Eide lifted his eyes a little, towards modern working life and where the workplaces will come. To believe that today it is about sending a large tax bill to them is not the right way to create jobs. When the Workers' Party was in power, they had both inheritance taxes, higher property taxes, growth in the economy and an oil price of $120 barrel. Nevertheless, there were 15 000 more poor children. This means that more taxes do not necessarily mean more well-being. This government has prioritised targeted measures to give more to those who have at least an early age, such as cheaper kindergartens and free core time in kindergartens for low-income families. But the very best response to poverty is still a job to go to. Here too, the government has provided a policy that works. Growth is on its way up, and unemployment is on its way down. More are included in the labour market. Finally, I just want to say that the right is in principle in favour of proposal No. 11th from the Workers' Party. We should have seen that it was investigated more rather than just adopting it as it is today, but we are going to support the proposal during voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1747	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1763	We had a lot of the essence of the matter up for discussion on the previous issue, so I just want to address the proposal that the minority has in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1768	The representative of Erlend Wiborg has drawn up the proposal he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Case No. 3–19 are the second time legal proceedings. The President will propose that matters be dealt with together. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1965	No one has asked for the word to be given to any of the cases. According to Section 76 of the Constitution, there must be at least three days between the first and second legal proceedings. There will be a delay in the negotiations, and the meeting will be revisited at 0 p.m. 13.50. Then the necessary three days have passed. The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 13.19. The meeting was re-attended for voting at 9 p.m. 13.50. President: Nils T. Bjørke
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1985	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e1994	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, from Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 4-7, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 8-10, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 11, from Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Labour Party proposal No 12, from André N. Skeleton on behalf of the Left proposal No 13, from Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that employers provide their work and service immigrants with adequate training in both language, safety culture and knowledge of the Norwegian model of working life, including their rights and duties as employees.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e2030	Proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the award criteria for the grant scheme for disabled people’s organisations, to make necessary, timely and red tape updates and to clarify the purpose of the scheme.’;» The Socialist Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e2047	Proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The cancellation requests the government to establish a time-accounting scheme up to two years for serious diagnosis of the duration of sick pay depending on the degree of sickness.’ The Socialist Left and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e2064	Proposal No. 4-7, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen Nav’s legal competence both centrally and locally in order to ensure the quality of Nav’s decision.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked not to implement the welfare bond project.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘As of 1 August 2018, the Government will be asked to have clear legislation providing young people with the need for permanent work in such a state-funded place.’ [[VTA]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the revised national budget for 2018, to come back with proposals to take up to 20 study credits during the daily allowance period.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e2098	Proposal No. 1-3, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that migrant workers are better trained in both language, safety culture and knowledge of the Norwegian model of working life, including their rights and duties as workers.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop and implement a new state project with full-time and involuntary part-time measures, including searchable funds for concrete actions to this end.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of labour crime centres covering the whole country and ensuring joint training and plans for them.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e2128	Proposal No. 12 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner, with a further assessment of the Stortinget’s request decision on 11 May 2017. The majority states that in its proposal, the government establishes a transitional arrangement for foster parents receiving lump sums or AAPs. The size also notes that it is not feasible to extend the scheme further by 1 January 2018, also because no further legislative changes related to the concept of income and its importance for curtailment have been identified.’ Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have every support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e2145	Proposal No. 11, from the Workers' Party. ‘The government is asking for information on the bankruptcy quarantine to be publicly available and to assess whether there is other information on the offences relevant to the business that should be made publicly available.’;» The President has reason to believe that all parties will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e5529	Points 2 and 3 and IX above I, III. The Labour Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e5543	It's going to be gravitated over VI. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e5557	It's going to be over X. The centre party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e5571	The remainder of points II, III and IV, V, VII and VIII shall be counted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e5668	There is a vote on I, III and IV, VI-X and XIII-XVI. Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e5682	Proposal No. 13, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with a review of the unintended effects of the UN reform based on equations for 2015 and 2016 based on the objective of achieving a future net income at the level of net income by 1 January 2015.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have little subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e5699	It's going to be over V and XII. Right, the Progress Party and the Left have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e5713	It's getting wet over II. Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e5727	It's getting wet over XI. The right hand side and the progress side have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e5746	During the debate, Mr Wiborg presented a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2017 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 2541 Day money 70 Day money, estimate exercise, is reduced by 650,000,000 from NOK 14 450 000 to NOK 13 800 000 ’ 2651 Work clearance money 70 Work clearance money, exercise of estimates, is reduced by: 190,000,000 from NOK 34,290,000 to NOK 34,100,000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e5851	Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the I-Cape Committee will be rejected. 2541 heading 70 and cap. 2651, heading 70. The Left and Christian People's Party have every support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e8351	The rest of the I and the II are going to be grazed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e8365	Case No. 3 to 19 are the second processing of legal acts and debts of Acts 10 up to and including 26. There are no comments suggested. The law of the Grand Duchy is therefore adopted at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-15.ana.ud37e8392	Then today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
