ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e90	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the West-Agder countries: Benjamin Groenvold For Hedmark County: Rangdi Krogstad For Oslo: Ann Kathrine Skreushammer For Sogn and Fjordane County: Jenny Følling For Nord-Trøndelag counties: Jorid Holstad Nordmelan For South-Trundellag County: Gunn Elin Flakne For Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen An application for welfare leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Karianne O. Heavy during the days 10 and 11 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Ferhat Güven, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e156	The President proposes that a President-in-Office of the Stortinges should be elected this week. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President proposes Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Andreas Limi is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e178	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e187	What this case is about is something quite different than a NOW about the loss of citizenship that punishment is all about. This is simply about recalling something that you would never have, and it's not punishment either by law or in any other way. It is important that we do not confuse the NOU and the current issue and the issue. The background to a proposal for a representative from the Green Party, the Labour Party, the Left Party and the Centre is due to the fact that the UDI has been given more resources, so that they have worked on a number of issues. This has created a media speciality on the basis of which a representative proposal was made early this year, which is based on who should have the authority to revoke the citizenship given on a false basis. In addition, the representative suggested that matters under consideration should be kept pending this change. As a case spokesman, of course, I have gone into the issue carefully and visited UDI's office to deal with such matters. I registered that UDI has, on its own initiative, reorganized to pool special competences on complex issues of citizenship and withdrawal. My impression is that UDI does a thorough and good job. They have competence and special knowledge in this field, and they are independent of government and individual matters, which are important for the UDI, but which is also important in this room. One has good legal security today. If one is not satisfied with the decision taken by the administration through the UDI, there is a possibility of complaint to the UN, which is also a competent body with special knowledge. One today also has the possibility to bring the final decision into the administration before the courts, so one has good legal certainty with today's practice. As everyone knows, this dates back to 2005, when a mass increase took place in the system that we are currently running, and which has been maintained by different governments. The Committee has had a thorough examination, although there has been a slightly special race where a start to the conclusion has been made. The names of the parties that were behind the proposal for a representative, flagged their eyesight and said they were some. So it wasn't many days before the Christian People's Party also joined. Then we started the discussion in the committee and brought the matter before the Council of State, which made a number of fundamental points of view on the proposal and also pointed out other things that one could do to strengthen legal certainty, which everyone is concerned about doing. Then we had a listener. In the listener there were useful, good recordings. I particularly care about the administration of the Court of Justice. It's a little special that one suggests moving something to the courts, but one has had dialogue with the courts themselves about how they saw themselves getting a new task that broke with the fundamental principle of power allocation in Norway. The court administration was clear and clear, and I'm going to page what they said at the inauguration of the hearing: ‘We consider it very unfortunate that legislative proposals involving changes of major importance have not been subject to discussion with the courts until political agreement on the change is established.’ [[and practical/economic]] Those are reasonably clear words from a court of law administration. They point out that they should get a new task that has not been discussed with them. Nor do they want such a room when Norway has a long tradition that administration and justice are two things, and that this is a government task. After the hearing, a number of people were established, which I agreed to at the beginning of the case, which means that the Right Party and the Advance Party stand alone to argue that the arrangements that have been in place since 2005 have a high level of legal certainty. I hope, however, that the parties that are behind the plurality, that the government will sort this out in detail, and that one does not change the principle of power distribution through a proposal for a representative, without first getting a thorough treatment. I hope that today's debate will clarify that one has confidence that the government will do this thoroughly, and I refer to the comments that state that such major changes must be carefully and thoroughly implemented before they are implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e207	Legal certainty is one of the cornerstones of Norwegian democracy. That's why it's important that we protect it. Ensuring legal certainty for individuals contributes to a high level of trust in society. If you come to Norway and lie about who you are and why you have come here, there must be consequences. Then you have to be prepared to lose your residence permit or citizenship, even though it has potentially been many years. At the same time, taking citizenship from people is very serious, with great consequences for them. That is why we believe that this is an area in which legal certainty needs to be strengthened. That is why we believe that revoking people's citizenship is a decision that must be moved from the administration to a court, so that they are appointed to a defender and have their case assessed in accordance with the procedural requirements and requirements of evidence required by a court. We have every confidence in UDI as a professional body, that's not what this is all about. We are very pleased that the proposal that the Workers' Party has been involved in promoting, today has a majority in Stortinget. Of course, we expect the government to do a thorough job of following this up. But this is not a vague wish from the Stortinget that the government can be so kind as to change the law, this is something that the Stortinget today very clearly obliges the government to do, and we expect, of course, that it is followed up quickly. The Progress Party has said with great patos that this is a violation of power-allocation principles and – I kept saying – the way Norway has been run over hundreds of years. Of course it isn't. Firstly, whether this type of case is to be dealt with by the administration or by the courts is a political decision, which Stortinget is quite free to take. And we have other, completely similar things, like, for example. the law of the courts of the courts of the courts of the courts of the Member State of removal of a person from his legal capacity to act. Here you could theoretically imagine that it was done by the government, but it doesn't. Now, as far as the courts are concerned, they're going to have a new problem. But it cannot be said to be a significant additional burden in terms of the number of cases. Although there has been an increase in the number of withdrawal-of-citizenship cases in recent years, there is not a very large volume of this in general. In the context of this proposal, there has also been a public debate on the establishment of a limitation period for citizenship. The Workers' Party is not in favour of this, for several reasons. We're emphasising that UDI has warned against doing that. The most serious argument against imposing a limitation period is that requiring asylum seekers coming to Norway to provide the correct identity is a pillar of the institution of asylum. It's very important to hold on, and we're very skeptical of any signal that might in some way suggest the opposite. Having said that, we believe that it is both important and right that the number of years of residence and the number of years of citizenship of Norway should be weighted and be part of the judgements to be made by the courts. For this reason, the majority of their comments have just emphasised that the courts have to make a proportionality assessment, where what has been accused of having done wrong is assessed against the time of residence and the number of years as a citizen of Norway. Last, but not least, the bulk of the population here takes a settlement with the so-called original sin. It is an important principle that you are responsible for the mistakes you are responsible for, but it is not correct according to Norwegian legal tradition that children and grandchildren should be punished for the mistakes that parents or grandparents have made. It also cleans up the bulk of the population today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e228	The proposal we are examining now aims to improve the legal certainty of those who are at risk of losing their citizenship. It is a serious matter if you have lied about your background and have been granted citizenship, but of course it is also a serious matter to be deprived of citizenship. There shall be good legal certainty and the Right agrees that ways can be found to strengthen legal certainty. But there is a difference between shaving and cutting off the chin, as an expression says, as the majority – in my opinion – is about to do in this matter. There is no doubt that what is proposed, namely that what has been an administrative decision to grant citizenship – today there is also an administrative decision that can exempt a citizenship, which can then be brought before the Court – is a rather long step forward. When the Workers' Party tries to minimize that there is a violation of the principle of power distribution in this country, I am surprised at that. In that case, the Workers' Party may not have been present at the hearing in the case and may have heard the Court's own assessment of it and their strong warning, both in principle and in practice, relating to this proposal, that what is being done here is to change quite fundamentally and to embark on a ‘slippery loop’ related to how we should deal with such cases. If that happens in this case, it is essentially a question of why it should not happen in other cases. What is the principle approach of the Workers' Party to the distinction between administration and judicial practice? It might have been interesting to hear about this matter. There are other ways, so if the Labour Party and the rest of the majority want to do this in a different way, one would also be able to get to the Right and the Advance Party's invitation to meet and say: Yes, it is possible to strengthen legal certainty. One of the points of appeal today is that if, after a thorough administrative assessment, a decision is given that one can no longer retain his citizenship, one can bring the matter before the courts. So someone would say it's expensive, it's demanding. But then, of course, we can discuss giving these people free legal aid in order to try an administrative decision in the court. That's the one. We could also have said that if you choose to bring the case before the court, you should retain your citizenship until the case is decided by the court. We could also have implemented a change in the law that all matters relating to the withdrawal of citizenship should be dealt with at the UN’s meeting, because today there is not always a full mention in the Foreign Affairs Department dealing with these matters. So if Helga Pedersen believes what was said from this pulpit, that one has full confidence in the UDI and the Foreign Affairs Department, one could have strengthened the proceedings in these cases without having done the quite big thing that it is beginning to move administrative decisions into the judiciary, as the courts strongly warn against, and which I believe is fundamentally wrong. So I'm not sure at all that this necessarily helps to strengthen legal certainty. That's another bowl. I believe that legal certainty could have been further strengthened by the ways in which the Right – insofar as the Advance Party – outlines the case. In the case of children and grandchildren who are in a difficult situation because their parents or grandparents have lied about their background and the basis for citizenship, we in the Right also believe that this should be changed, so that children and grandchildren do not lose their citizenship as a result of mistakes made by parents and grandparents. We are also behind this case. But basically this matter is about those who have bluffed themselves and resorted to a Norwegian citizenship, being deprived of it. They have been granted it after a thorough assessment by the administration, and they should also be able to be deprived of it after a thorough assessment by the administration with the possibility of appeal to the judiciary, as is, of course, the case today. But it is fully possible to strengthen legal certainty in ways other than by implementing a policy that fundamentally alters the distribution of power and the balance of power we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e243	A Norwegian citizenship shall hang high, and the Christian People's Party does not wish in any way to make it easier to cheat for residence or for citizenship. But this debate is about whether the withdrawal of citizenship is to be done by judgment or not. The Christian People's Party believes legal proceedings will mean strengthening legal certainty. Norwegian citizenship is already high in today's legislation. Then it is natural that no one can be deprived of their citizenship in a light-minded way either. Today, it is possible to lose its citizenship through only a single UDI decision. This does not seem reassuring to the Christian People’s Party and therefore supports the proposal that this should be done only through judgment. Judicial proceedings involve enhanced independence and increased ability to respond to the claims of the counterparty. Withdrawals of citizenship have many similarities with punishment, and the consequences are dramatic for them. When even the smallest criminal case is being dealt with in the court today, there are good reasons why withdrawal of citizenship should also do so. A counter-argument is that it is also possible to appeal to the courts today. That's right, but there's a few that have real access to. Only the most resource-intensive have the means to take such a case against the state, as you do it at your own risk and expense. Today’s decision will mean that it is the State that must take the one suspected of cheating or lying to court. It will also trigger the right to legal aid for the defendant. I also notice that the government parties also realise that there is not a sufficiently reassuring treatment of these matters today, and that they have made their own proposals to try to remedy it. That's good, but here you should go all the way and secure court proceedings. Furthermore, there has been a practice in the UDI that means that children and children can also lose their citizenship because of the misinformation of parents and grandparents on arrival. This is unreasonable and has contributed to fears among second and third generation immigrants. Failure to change practices may constitute an obstacle to good integration. Legal experts have stated that current legislation does not allow such a practice. Nevertheless, when it exists, it should be clarified in the law that children and grandchildren should not be affected by the mistakes of their parents and grandparents. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party believes that in the limited number of cases where children have already been exposed to this unfair and likely illegal practice, an opening should be given in order to be able to remedy this situation, so that those concerned can regain their Norwegian citizenship. Another unfortunate practice is that UDI can promote withdrawal cases for decades after an asylum seeker arrived in the country. This is because today's legislation does not provide for a limitation period for the withdrawal of citizenship. Moreover, the administration has a number of clear rules on the limitation of claims and administrative intervention vis-à-vis citizens. In criminal law, too, there are time limits for the limitation of criminal liability, but only the most serious crimes are not outdated. This member considers that it may seem unreasonable for serious crimes such as trafficking in human beings and serious fraud to be out-of-date, but that an asylum seeker should never provide incorrect information on arrival; it should never be out-of-date. The reasons behind the rules on limitation will also apply in these cases. Evidence weakens over time, and the ability to prove its innocence becomes more difficult the longer it goes. With the decisions taken today by the majority, with the introduction of a court hearing in which residence becomes an important element of the assessment, a limitation period is likely to apply in extremely few cases. However, the Christian People's Party considers that both reasonable and legal certainty reasons indicate that a limitation period should also be introduced. In principle, this will improve legal certainty. A court has the opportunity to use all the information provided by UDI and UNE and has the opportunity to illuminate the breadth of the case in a way that will improve legal certainty for individuals, and it will stand in our legal system. It is a political decision that the Stortinget has the opportunity to make if we believe that today's system is not good enough. I refer to the suggestions we are included in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e271	The representative Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e276	The story we've been familiar with through the media about Norwegian citizens who have been reclaimed their citizenship after long residence in Norway has made an impression on me. We all have e.g. heard of the Palestinian family of twelve persons who, after 27 years in Norway, are now at risk of being eliminated from their Norwegian citizenship. There is a need to change current practices in which the withdrawal of citizenship takes place through administrative decisions. That is why the Centre Party took part in the promotion of this proposal. I also react to the fact that after such a long time the UDI discovered that the granted citizenship was given on the wrong basis. When granting citizenship, several decisions have already been taken on both a temporary residence permit and a permanent residence permit. It is necessary to take the right decisions at first instance, so as to avoid the misappropriation of citizenship. If necessary, competences need to be strengthened to avoid this in the future. Int. O. No 86 for 2004-2005, which deals with this subject, the Committee states: ‘The Committee agrees that this should only apply where the error is due to the applicant and that it should be required to be continued.’ The size thus assumed by the decision that the condition for withdrawal was that the applicant had provided incorrect information itself. Through individual cases, we now see that today’s practice gives very unfortunate results, by the fact that children and grandchildren are deprived of their citizenship without obligation as a result of their parents or grandparents providing incorrect information at the time of the search. The centre party cannot accept such inherited sin and therefore, together with the majority, proposes that children and grandchildren should not be deprived of their citizenship as a result of errors committed by parents or grandparents. Furthermore, it is natural, in my view, that free legal assistance is granted in revocation cases. Burdening the individual financially becomes unreasonable when it is the state that raises a case. This is a cost the state has to bear. I would also like to point out that 138 citizenships were revoked during the five-year period between 2012 and 2017. Of these cases, 19 were dealt with in courts. In other words, there will be no mention of many cases, and the courts will be able to deal with this resourcefully. Citizenship is a declaration of trust by the State to the person acquiring citizenship. It gives a citizen both rights and obligations. It also gives individual security, belonging, identity and sense of pride. For this reason, the withdrawal of citizenship becomes a very important act. The Party considers that penalties should be proportionate to the nature of the infringement. The principle of proportionality is a central element in what we are adopting today. In a proportionality assessment, the courts will take into account all aspects of a recall case, including residence and links with the country. I note that the government parties are not critical of today's practice, nor do they recognise the need for a mechanism that will strengthen the legal certainty of the individual. Their main focus has been on attacking the proposal and claiming that it is rocking by the principle of power distribution. In this case, it is not the only cases that do. Today, in several areas too, it is the courts that decide at first instance, for example. in the case of defence cases and matters relating to the detention of persons under the Foreign Affairs Act. What we are adopting today, in practice, means that the issue of withdrawal will no longer be the subject of administrative proceedings in the UN and the UDI, nor will it be the subject of changing policies. These questions shall be dealt with by the courts, i.e. by an independent body, and will ensure that treatment will be equivalent to that of those in political leadership in the ministry. I am pleased that the majority of people today are adopting amendments to the Civil Code which ensure a more judicial process in which the revocation of citizenship is to be done by judgment. With regard to the loose proposals of the Left, the Central Party believes that this has been taken into account in the majority observations, which are very clear on this point. It will be part of the basis of the law, and we expect the courts to deal with it in law enforcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e309	Withdrawal of citizenship is an intervention. Citizenship is high, and many are waiting for the application to be granted for many years. The threshold for withdrawal must also be high, especially in countries where there is no opportunity to have two citizenships and may end up being stateless. The left is a hot follower of dual citizenship and has long awaited the government's follow-up to the Storting decision last year. Norway is now one of the few countries in Europe that still have a ban on dual citizenship. We have to do something about this. The left is pleased that the legal certainty of withdrawals is now improved. We have transferred the decision of these cases to the courts. After the proposal was delivered, we were also made aware of several issues that have shown how the home for recall is used, and to what extent. We should therefore like to see one raise the threshold for withdrawal of citizenship, and one have introduced a limitation period for withdrawal, which we have in a number of other areas. The fear of losing citizenship inhibits integration, especially when one in matters referred to in the media will withdraw the citizenship of children and grandchildren based on false information from grandfathers. It doesn't matter, and I'm glad that the bulk of the population is now putting an end to that practice. However, even for the person mentioned as having provided incorrect information, a limitation period, such as one in serious criminal proceedings, should be allowed. At some point, one must be able to be sure that citizenship stands and that one fully integrates into society, which everyone expects. But it was not possible to get a majority for a limitation period in any direction. It is therefore important to ensure that a proportionality assessment is carried out in these cases, to some extent taking into account the limitation rule. The left considers that it needs to be clarified, and proposes that the Storting should ask the government to ensure, in an appropriate manner, that a proportionality assessment is carried out in the event of withdrawal of citizenship, including: the period of residence and the period during which citizenship has been acquired are taken into account. This proposal has been taken up. A transfer of the withdrawal cases from the foreign administration to the courts is not a liberalisation. The law is the same. There will continue to be grounds for withdrawal of citizenship as a result of incorrect information. I have recorded the fear that the courts are flooded with cases. We are talking here about a defined field of action. The UDI will continue to play a role in the preparation of matters, and one will continue to benefit from their expertise and special insight into the foreign field. Your assessment will weigh heavily. Now you will have an independent court to decide whether the conditions are met. Left considers this to be an important improvement in legal certainty. The left would like us to have our own administrative court in the foreign field, which one has in a number of other countries, because then there was a guaranteed expertise in the field and improved legal certainty in relation to today's system. The left has always had a special involvement with children, whether in the case of long-term asylum children or in the case of despair of lonely minors at reception. In that field, children must bear too much responsibility for the mistakes of adults. Our practice towards asylum-seekers is therefore one of the main reasons why we do not get a majority in the Chamber to introduce a complaint procedure under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In this case, it has been particularly important that the competent children and grandchildren are also held responsible for the errors they have not had the opportunity to influence. It's unreasonable, and I hope that after today's decision we don't get any more similar cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e328	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e333	We in SV are happy today, because we have brought with us the majority of the Storting to change the practice of recalling citizenship, so that legal certainty is increased. It's necessary, and that's good. I am a little surprised that there is no unanimity about the matter. Citizenship is probably the most fundamental right a human being can have. Being stateless is being almost rightsless in the world. So granting citizenship must, of course, be done in such a way that you do not grant it on a false basis. And if you're going to lose a citizenship, you have to use the best and most legal processes to make sure you don't do any wrong on such a fundamental issue. I hear that someone asks questions by saying that, among other things, refers to the NOU presented, which is about withdrawals used as a criminal reaction by, for example, terrorist acts. Today it is not possible to lose citizenship on such a basis in Norway. I think most people would think that a mistake was made 20-30 years ago, maybe not worse than being involved in terrorist actions. But this is the law of the day. But what's in this NOU is more principled than that. It says, among other things: ‘A court proceedings will take place to a greater extent than administrative proceedings in general constitutional matters, where individuals are granted, inter alia, the right to defenders and to promote evidence that strengthens their case. Well, it may be so important that court proceedings are not politically governed, so that there is no general speculation about the role of the government in matters relating to the loss of citizenship.» So this is from the NOU, which is done by legal experts, a sample that the government has put down. It is these principles that the SV and the majority also believe need to apply to recall where it has been incorrect. This proposal does not violate the principle of power distribution. There are other issues that are dealt with in the same way, to which several representatives have referred. In many other countries, too, this is a matter that is before the courts, precisely because it is seen to be such a fundamental right. There are also proposals today to ensure free legal assistance in such cases, and in my view, there should also be a Right-wing vote in favour, because that proposal does not relate to the procedure to be dealt with, but is a general principle on these matters of citizenship. It has also been proposed that the matters currently under consideration be put under review. This is important because it is now necessary to have a more secure handling of these cases, a more secure treatment, among other things. of course you have to get the right to meet, as you don't necessarily have today. There's a minority of such cases. However, it must also be a matter for the government to have this matter investigated and presented to the Stortinget as quickly as possible. This is necessary, and the matters which are being dealt with under old legislation must therefore not be dealt with. Then it is important that everyone – apart from the Advancement Party – agrees to abolish inherited sin. There are very good arguments for it, and very strange that there should be consequences for children and grandchildren of a wrong parent have done in such a case. Then it's the custody question, and it's a shame it hasn't become a majority for it. I refer to a note that also the Right is included where it says: ‘These members see that it may seem unreasonable that serious crimes are being committed, but that incorrect information on arrival in Norway never expires.’ I think that's very important. So I just want to say that SV is going to support Christian People's Party's proposal No. 2 and the proposal that is on the table from the left today, where SV was to be co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e364	This debate is about the legal certainty of all Norwegian citizens. We have a government that has increasingly opened up administrative decisions to take citizenship from people, and therefore it is very good that the majority of the population now determines what should be quite obvious, namely that taking citizenship from people cannot be a bureaucratic procedure in line with taking the driver's license or the gift grant from someone. Taking citizenship from people is a very serious decision. It is an existential event for those affected, and it must therefore be a matter of course that those facing such a threat should have their case dealt with in the Norwegian judiciary, not just from a desk. Government practices have in many ways contributed to the creation of an A team and a B team among Norwegian citizens, both through government rhetoric and their practical policies. The special effort to go through very old asylum cases, the active willingness to bring out children and grandchildren on the basis of their grandparents and parents' mistakes, is one of the driest examples of this kind of policy. The message from the government has been very clear: many Norwegian citizens should not feel safe. Fortunately, very many people have reacted to this. They have reacted to things like the Mahad affair and the story of a large family of stateless Palestinians threatened with eviction because of it. One man's alleged lie, and this, fortunately, is contrary to most people's general judgment. Thus, well integrated people, even children born in Norway, are at risk of being thrown out of the country on the basis of aggressive rulebreakers. It is very good that the Stortinge returns against this policy and states that all Norwegian citizens should have the same legal certainty. In addition to the representative proposal, on which we are involved, we also support the proposals of the Left, SV and the Christian People's Party to support a limitation period in such cases, as we have in cases of very serious crimes – far more serious crimes than there are in this case – otherwise in Norway. A limitation period also provides a reasonable framework for the use of resources by the administration, so that they first clearly make necessary, thorough investigations before citizenship is granted, and then have a reasonable time limit for resolving any errors. That is why we also support the Christian People's Party's proposal to return citizenship to children and grandchildren who have lost it through today's unacceptable practices. The Green Party has also delivered its own representative proposal, which will be discussed later, which proposes further restrictions on the taking of citizenship from people. There's something very many countries around us just don't do. Citizenship is a human right, and the fact that the country that in its time gained a lot of international goodwill by distributing Nansen passports to stateless armies, which still makes us a good name in Armenia, is the country that goes so far in taking citizenship from people and even in making people stateless, I am very happy that we are now taking up again for debate. What the Storting is doing today is taking a good step towards removing the division into A and B layers among Norwegian citizens again. With the Green Party which has been promoted and which will be discussed later in this period, the Storting should take a full step and ensure that taking citizenship from people is not something we do in Norway. If people are wrong, they have to be punished under Norwegian law, but if you are a Norwegian citizen, you are, and you have to be treated like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e379	First, a brief comment to the representative Hansson on this government's policy in this area: this matter was thus unanimously adopted in this process in 2005. It was unanimously adopted. So what the government has done is that you've followed up what a unanimous big thing said in 2005. I respect whether you want to change it, but pointing out that the government is doing something that has not been decided by the Storting, will be reasonably wrong. I have noticed, of course, that a majority of the committee now is for the withdrawal of citizenship to be decided by the courts as first instance. Furthermore, there is a majority in the Committee to clarify that children and grandchildren cannot lose citizenship as a result of errors committed by parents or grandparents. There is also a majority in favour of cases of revocation still pending and free legal aid to be granted in cases of revocation of citizenship. I remember that we are totally dependent on those who want permission under the Foreign Affairs Act, or Norwegian citizenship under the National Act, explaining themselves correctly to the authorities. Our system is based largely on trust. I think it is very unfortunate to make changes that may weaken incentives to provide correct information to the authorities, in particular in line with the rules contained in the Administrative Act. The Administrative Act sets out a number of requirements to ensure legal certainty for individuals. The law ensures opposition and that the cases are as well informed as possible before a decision to revoke is taken. Relationships that go both in the favor and disfavor of the individual were investigated significantly. In all matters of withdrawal of citizenship, the UDI assesses whether the decision is proportionate. The independence of UDIs and UNEs is ensured by the fact that the Department cannot instruct on the outcome of individual cases, and the UN review procedure is even more reassuring than in administrative appeals in other areas. UNE, therefore, is a court-like body and cannot be instructed on interpretation or judgment. The UN negotiators must fulfil the conditions for being judges. Legal certainty can be said to be very well maintained. After an action for revocation of citizenship has been completed at administrative level, it may be brought before the courts. I cannot see that it in itself will strengthen legal certainty, that the thorough handling and decision of the administration will be removed and that the case will be brought directly before the courts. I am simply concerned that, with the amendments proposed by the majority of the Committees, we are in a situation where there is a disproportionate need for resources and it is simply difficult for the authorities to provide for the withdrawal of citizenship in cases where people have provided incorrect information. My assessment is that court proceedings are likely to lead to a longer period of proceedings than today due to a lack of capacity in the courts. I hear several people say that there will be no more cases in the courts on the basis of this decision. With free legal aid and the courts as the first instance, it is naive to believe that not the vast majority of cases are in court. It is important to look at the relationship between citizenship and foreign law. Although withdrawals of citizenship are transferred to the courts, whatever the issue of expulsion – in retrospect – must be dealt with by UDI and UNE. Such proceedings extend the duration of proceedings. In two of the foreign cases where Norway has been convicted in the EMD, it was reported among others. stressed that the cases had not been handled with sufficient speed and efficiency. I believe such a case is a bit to decide without getting an investigation in advance. It's a little surprising that the Storting actually adopts such a major change in the principle of power distribution, without even starting an investigation, and it also showed the hearing on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e398	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e403	We all know that matters are thoroughly reviewed by the UDI and UNE, and today they have the opportunity to withdraw decisions on citizenship. Then he can sue the State. It's demanding, it's expensive, and there's a risk of losing – of course. Although we believe that court proceedings will produce a better and fairer result, where UDI and UNE can provide their information, we believe that this can only lead to those who have enough resources and against enough, who dare to go to court against the state itself. That's pretty demanding. Does the Council of State think this is a good arrangement, or does the Council of State see that there may be a difference between those who have resources and those who do not have resources, and that legal certainty can thus be weakened?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e408	This is something that both magnificence, large-scale representatives and state councils constantly experience – the relationship between legal certainty up against the state, regardless of the issue. It's a balance that's always there – you have muscles, economics, or the power to go against the state in different cases. That is why the government also met with the court. It is, as the representative points out, fully possible to go all the way with the anchor in this system. You have a treatment in UDI, in UNE, which is a court-like body, you can appeal to the District Court, you can go to the Lawyer's Court, you can actually go all the way to the Supreme Court today with some cases. So it's this economy, and I'm recording that if it was free legal aid that was the challenge, I think the representative and the Christian People's Party might have suggested it only if you saw that it was the solution to the problem. Here, extensive changes in the principle of power-sharing are proposed in order to arrive at their case, but free legal aid had simply been better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e413	Government lots separate layers at a significant point. The propulsion party is the only party that believes that children and adults should still be able to lose citizenship due to incorrect information provided by grandparents perhaps some thirty years ago. In their comments, the right says: ‘These members stress that legitimate children and their descendants of parents who spoke falsely about identity shall not be subject to withdrawal of citizenship.’ The lot of progress does not at all justify its position in the note. Can the State Council justify why the Progress Party believes it is natural that children who have never lived other than in Norway and who may have parents who have never lived other than in Norway should continue to lose their citizenship because of incorrect information provided by grandparents?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e423	At least I can try. In our trust-based system, it is important to withdraw citizenship when it is based on incorrect information. That's the starting point. But at least the Progress Party and I see that it may be unreasonable for someone to lose their citizenship because others have provided incorrect information – wrong information once, twice or three times. Therefore, UNE has changed its practice in this field, and therefore it is the starting point of the Advance Party and the government that the Stortinget takes unnecessary decisions to change a practice that is actually in place. This practice is in place in the UN, and that is why we see no reason why the Storting should decide to change its practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e430	There is a lot of evidence that this practice is not in place, because there are many grandchildren who have now been notified of the withdrawal of citizenship precisely because grandparents have provided incorrect information. The Council of State stressed in its statement at least twice that there was a unanimous increase that had adopted this law in 2005. I quote the comment of a unanimous committee: ‘The Committee agrees that this should only apply where the error is due to the applicant and that it should be required to be continued.’ I interpret this in such a way that the intention of the law has never been to identify children or grandchildren and to withdraw citizenship because grandparents may have provided incorrect information. How does the Council of State interpret this comitology?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e442	There is no doubt that the government has followed up a law that has been in place since 2005. Since 2005, the Labour Party and the Centre Party have been in government for at least eight years, and this practice has also been present. I think it's a little strange that you haven't called for a different practice from that of the Centre in 2005, when it's done. It's also a little strange, when a total accumulation has been behind this until today, without a problem, that it's now you see that this should change. I respect the sentiments of bigots representatives and state councils about what you discover in individual matters. That's why I now say that I feel it's unreasonable that it should be like that, the Progress Party feels it's unreasonable that it should be like that, and that's why, in specific cases, you change practice – it shouldn't be that you have to take responsibility for other people's mistakes many, many years later.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e449	If it is the opinion of the Advance Party and the Government, it is very strange that none of these arguments has been made either in the government's letter to the Stortinge during the handling of the case or in comments in this setting. On the contrary, the Party of Advancement does not accept any of this with the removal of inherited sin. I am happy if the Council of State thinks so, but then he should also be happy that these changes are happening. Then there's another question that the Progress Party isn't in, and it's this with longevity. Can the Council of State justify the possibility of very serious crimes being committed, while having provided incorrect information on arrival in Norway should never be obsolete?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e456	I listened to the post of the representative, Andersen, and I believe it was NOU 2015: 4 representatives Andersen quoted from. Now I can signal that there's a matter from the government about this, where you might try to correct the injustice that Andersen's representative points out from the pulpit. But there's a significant difference here, and that's that the loss of citizenship and withdrawn citizenship are two different things. Retiring a citizenship even if citizenship is in order, when a criminal offence has been committed, is quite another matter than withdrawing a citizenship. There's a significant difference here. As far as parenting is concerned, the Progress Party assumes that it is likely to result in the reward of incorrect information, the reward of lies, and a training of these kinds of things, which we are not served with, and which will lead to even more cases of this kind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e464	This is a matter of assessing the seriousness of what has been committed. Everyone believes that proper information should be provided, and no one, at least not in this case, has proposed that there should be no reason to lose citizenship. But in the consultation note that the government has now sent out, which is about those who are being charged with terrorism and attacking the security of the nation, the government thinks it should be court-martial. That is where the government believes that it is only in the case of dual citizenship that anyone should be able to lose citizenship. Then you shouldn't be able to become stateless, and then none of what you've done before you're 18 years old is to be judged. I and SV believe that the legal opinion of people is that this is much more serious than having made a mistake in providing information in a potentially very demanding situation, where you may even have been young and have just been through a traumatic flight. Does not the Council of State share those views?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e471	The sense of justice among people makes me very difficult when you set this up against each other. NOU 2015: 4, Loss of Norwegian citizenship, concludes that the loss of citizenship due to criminal offences is to be regarded as punishment in the sense of the Constitution and the EMK. Therefore, there is a significant difference here, and therefore there is a requirement that these cases be dealt with by the courts. That's why the government is coming up with things that make people feel right about this -- let me make it clear. The withdrawal of citizenship because of misinformation is therefore not a penalty in that sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e476	I noticed one thing that the Council of State said, and that is that the Progress Party today is voting against the proposal to ensure that inherited sin is abolished because the Council of State claimed that it was an unnecessary decision. He referred to the foreign student's changed practice. But then I say the following: The Council of State is aware that he does not instruct the Foreign Affairs Department, but the UDI, so if this is today an unnecessary decision in the opinion of the Council of State, can he confirm that he has instructed the UDI not to withdraw citizenship for children and grandchildren of people who have their citizenship revoked?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e481	No, I don't. What is the starting point here is a structure built up from 2001 and 2002, and I think that the representative also remembers quite well. Then we can have a political discussion if you have the right structure. I draw attention to the fact that both the Advance Party and the Right were against this structure, which was adopted in my first period on the Stortinget. That's why I'm very happy not to interfere with these kinds of things. However, when UNE and UDI have a room to change their practices in this area, it may be with the background of the majority comments made in 2005 and that they see the unfairness of this. But it can't be that everyone should automatically retain their citizenship, and that you should not have a withdrawal of citizenship, because you are a child or a grandchild.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e486	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e491	Now the Council of State showed why it is necessary to adopt this today, namely because he has not instructed the Directorate of Foreign Affairs to do what the Stortinge believes, and what the Stortinge meant in my opinion already when we adopted this, in 2004–2005. It's not many times in the last four years that I've been happy about legal certainty issues for people who have a foreign background, but it's possible that we've got to this majority today just because it's about the legal certainty of the North. It's about the fact that being deprived of citizenship is one of the most intrusive things a person can experience, because you have rights as a citizen, but you also have obligations as a citizen and an identity attached to citizenship. Who's Norwegian? That's the big question. My answer is: anyone who feels like a Norwegian and anyone who has a Norwegian citizenship. The contract between the community and the individual in citizenship is essential for the integration of new countrymen, because it creates security for the individual and security for a future for them, as Norwegians. Once the government has prioritised additional resources to deprive people of citizenship and to go after people who have been in Norway for a long time — children who may have been born in Norway — it sends a signal to the whole immigrant population: you can never be safe. It's a dangerous signal, because we need more community and more security, and less suspicion and less fear. We cannot be surprised that a right-wing populist, anti-immigration party – which draws its inspiration from the Danish People's Party and the Swedish Democrats – is just going to this attack on people to deprive them of security. However, I do think that Mr. Frank J. Jensen's claim that their alternative would ensure more legal certainty falls on his own unfairness and is not particularly credible, because the Right and Advance Party have not, in this case, presented any proposals to strengthen the legal certainty of the people who are to be deprived of their citizenship. Then there is a presumption on the whole government's starting point, that people have lied, and that there are invalid decisions that are made. No, there is a presumption that they have failed, there is a presumption that the decisions are invalid. Then it is reasonable, the majority seems, that the state is suing the individual, for the state has already checked out the identity of these people three times, namely when they were given their first stay, when they were granted a permanent residence permit, and when they were granted citizenship. When the state then decides to change, it is reasonable to ensure legal certainty for children. I would like to thank those journalists from TV 2 and the class struggle who have done a job to raise this issue, and Mahad and all the others who have made us big-time politicians aware of it – and gave us the opportunity to change course for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e506	I refer to the question that the Council of State got, about how the Progress Party on the Stortinget is dealing with its own comments. Even though the Council of State answered the question very well on behalf of the party, I would like to fill in from here as well: The reason why we didn't go into those comments and suggestions is that we are aware that UNE has recently changed its practice, based on a punishment of the state citizenship law of the Supreme Court, which is very clear that those who are children and who have received citizenship based on self-employment should not be deprived of citizenship. So we thought it would be wrong to ask the government to propose changes, when a change has already been made, which must be allowed to work, and which the government can in its own way come back to us if she wants to. That's the background. We would like to put it into notes, but we were familiar with it quite late in the process. That's why we're taking the oral explanation here. There's nothing else on the grounds that we have that hold, than what the council said, and what I'm now saying. Otherwise, the debate is clear – at least I see the Labour Party as such – that one wants an explanation from the government. Many say verbally that we are now changing practice, but what the Storting is doing is asking the government to make proposals. Then it has to be understood that the Storting asks the government to have a thorough explanation and come back to the matter in a thorough and proper manner. The size does not make a change today through that decision. A request that the government carry out a thorough and good process and present the matter again to the Government in its own way. It will then be possible to reopen this debate, based on a thorough examination to which all parties subscribe. I think it's important that it is emphasised that what is the Grandfather's will today is that one challenges the government to solve this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e517	You don't challenge the government, you tell the government to investigate and come back to Stortinget with a bill to ensure that these matters are handled by the courts. That's what the majority of the Great Britain is going to vote for, and that's what the government is charged with. Of course, the government has to do a good job with it – it should just be missing. But that is also why there is a majority in favour of the proposal to put these matters at risk, so that the government should not let it scour and go and wait to get this investigation started – because this must be done quickly. No one has an interest in this waiting any longer. One concern I didn't get mentioned in my main post is that the government and the majority have weakened UNE's independence by giving the department the opportunity to instruct UNE. This means that the argument about the autonomy of the foreign administration is weakened – strongly – especially because we have a government that has politicised the foreign field extremely, and which, through all its proposals and actions, shows that perhaps the most important thing they are doing is to tell people who originate in a country other than Norway, that they are not welcome, and that if they come here and stay, they should never feel safe. It's very harmful to integration. It is also strange to hear a government council arguing that it has given a wrong information on a matter where you may have been in a very extreme situation, where you may have been young, far below the age of authority – I hope that none of us will be in such extreme situations and be exposed to such things – in a way that will react as seriously as if you have committed a terrorist act. And on the contrary, if you have committed a terrorist act, the government clearly believes that you should have greater legal certainty, that you should not be able to be made stateless or that you should not be judged for action until you were 18. It is true, as the Council of State says, that this results from the principles of law in the case of criminal acts. But who is it that doesn't understand that losing citizenship is at least perceived as a punishment by the one who loses it? I also believe that the people otherwise believe it is. It cannot be that we should treat terrorists in a better way than those who have experienced war and persecution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e530	I hear a number of representatives talking about security and fear. What is now adopted here does not create greater security or less fear, but will contribute to the opposite. Those who may not have security today, and those who live in fear today, are precisely the ones who have provided incorrect information. Not only once, but twice and maybe three times, the wrong information has been given. But all the others who have been granted citizenship where proper information has been laid down and cooperated with the authorities, they have no reason to fear. They have pure flour in their bag. If we are to change the law to allow those who lie or give incorrect information not to live in fear because they have given incorrect information, it is, at least for me, completely wrong. Of course, the government should follow the decisions made by the Storting, but how long it had to take to deal with such a matter is completely impossible to dictate. This proposal has not been examined at all, and it is now adopted relatively quickly by the Storting. Few comments have been made that it is important that at least the government examines closely, as it has a significant impact on the whole of the foreign administration and can have a significant impact on the rest of the administration. The Court of Justice and the Council of State Sylvi Listhaug have both pointed out, in the hearing and in a letter to the Committee, that there are also balances with the principle of the distribution of power. Then I hear more representatives don't see that challenge, but I think the future will show something else. This will be treated properly. I say and inform you again, now that matters will be put to rest – we have lost two cases earlier in the EMK because we have not dealt with these kinds of matters quickly enough – that sitting in the uncertain and waiting case at least does not create security.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e537	It is problematic that the Council of State does not deal with reality when he talks about the matter. It is clear that today, under Roman IV, which is also on the Right, what the Council of State, which was a member of the same committee as me when the law was passed, was in favour of saying that there should be a provision to be made for the withdrawal of citizenship. Now the whole Storting minus the Council of State party says that we believe this should apply, so that children and grandchildren cannot lose their citizenship as a result of mistakes committed by parents or grandparents. It creates security for all the kids and grandchildren and all those who have grown up during that period. It's not possible for the Council of State to talk away from it. The second is that if an administrative officer of the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and subsequent treatment in the Department of Foreign Affairs withdraws any citizenship or withdraws citizenship, these peoples are put in a situation where they no longer have a work permit. They lose their labour income, and they have to bring a case against the State in order to retain their citizenship. They are not even guaranteed that the State ensures that they have another citizenship and country to travel to. It is the paradoxical situation if one claims to be from Somalia, while the state believes one is from Djibouti, but is unable to obtain a Djibouti citizenship, that then one will be a resident in Norway, completely without the opportunity to travel and completely without the opportunity to work and obtain the income needed to bring a case against the state. The state has dealt with money, but for the individual unemployed, money is not right. There we now ensure security by saying that if, after having dealt with the matter three times, the State undergoes a thorough examination of it in the asylum process or in another residence permit process, in the permanent residence permit process or in the citizenship process, it will nevertheless feel that one has lied about what one has done and will bring an action against one in order to deprive or withdraw the citizenship, then a work permit, the right to stay and free legal aid, all of these things, until citizenship is eventually revoked. It significantly strengthens legal certainty for individuals, without changing the law. This has made it possible to find a broad majority here. Once again, I'm just saying that if the Right Party or the Advance Party thought they had other solutions on how to ensure better legal certainty for those covered here, one would have had a sea of time to propose this. But we haven't seen the spin of that in any way, and it can't be interpreted in any other way than that the Right Party and the Advance Party have no intention of strengthening the legal certainty of people who get their citizenship revoked. Fortunately, the majority of the population disagree with each other. Luckily.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e548	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e566	Fishing is an important industry for the country and a significant regional industry. Of course, harvesting wild fish must take place within a resilient framework, and strict regulations and associated control regimes are necessary to ensure that future generations can also house the wealth of the sea. These are all some of them about. Fishing legislation is very comprehensive, with many detailed specifications, several regulations on the same conditions and different specifications for the same species. At times this legislation may put fishermen to the test, and it may also be in the fisheries industry that laws and regulations are broken for various reasons. The size has a responsibility to facilitate the fact that a fishing industry also has a system of penalties for infringements of the fisheries legislation which is fair and understandable and which helps to adapt the response to the seriousness of the breach of the rules. The checks and penalties must be carried out in a manner that is perceived as prudent and fair for those involved. The law must have legitimacy. Unfortunately, not all fishers experience having such a sanctioning system. Many fishermen have experienced a very unblemished meeting with the fishing authorities when they have made mistakes. Over the year, a set of stories in the media, with examples of what is perceived as untimely behaviour by the fisheries authorities. Over the years, we politicians have been contacting a number of fishermen who have felt that they have been treated unfairly by the fishing authorities. In particular, provision is made for the administrative withdrawal and practice of the rules on the keeping of the fishing logbook that fishermen experience as unfair and sometimes incomprehensible, and that is why they have claimed over the year that they do not have sufficient legal certainty. I first take the criticism of the practice of administrative withdrawal. Administrative withdrawal is permitted under Section 54 of the Marine Resource Act and shall be understood in accordance with the Fisheries Directorate in such a way that the catch value of fish that are caught contrary to the Code is withdrawn and that the owners do not allow the directorate to exercise understanding, whether or not one cannot withdraw due to the lack of guilt, the brilliance of the result or the size of the withdrawal. The reason for this is, as I understand it, that the system of administrative withdrawal is not to be regarded as a punishment, but is meant to be a repatriation agency. The point is to make sure that the fisherman cannot afford the cost of fishing in line with the legislation. The offender shall neither tarn nor lose on the breach of the rules. The fishing team has pointed out that it is unproblematic that such withdrawal takes place when the fisherman has fished more than the allocated quota or if, by breaking the legislation, he obtains an exchange at the expense of others. What is problematic, on the other hand, is situations in which the fisherman has fished within his quotas, yet for some reason has broken some of the provisions, but in reality has not gained any benefit at the expense of others. In such situations, fishermen perceive that they are being punished, without having the legal security to which the accused are entitled, both under Norwegian law and under the European Convention on Human Rights. The problem with the caregivers today is that there is no legal basis for withdrawal. This is an obvious problem in adjusting to, for the administration as well as for the fishermen. As you know, the fisheries legislation is very extensive, and I find it almost unmistakable that any rulebreak regulating fishing can and must lead to the withdrawal of catch values. Where such practices are to be practised, this should, in many cases, be changed. Many people also think that there is an obvious need for a review and a clarification of this system now. The Government shall forward to the Council of State on 19 February 2016, in Prop. 62 L for 2015–2016, proposals for common rules in the administrative laws on, inter alia: administrative sanctions and suspensions. Although the Storting agreed with the government that there was no basis for common rules on administrative withdrawal at that time, the proposition states that a basic premise to provide for administrative withdrawal is that special legislation must state which law can form the basis for withdrawal. This is not reflected in the Maritime Resource Act today, and the question is whether the Minister for Fisheries shares the view that this should be put in place now. From the legal point of view, one also shows that the issues of administrative intervention and other forms of sanctions have been addressed through processes in the aquaculture law, cf. the amendments to the aquaculture law which entered into force on 1 January 2014. In fisheries legislation, there would not have been an equivalent exercise in which the principal aspects of administrative intervention have been assessed against the other forms of reaction – even if it is apparent from the preliminary work of the Marine Resource Act that it was natural to review the sanctioning provisions of the Marine Resource Act when the regulatory fee system has been in operation for some time. This system now has, according to many people's opinion, sufficient time for a review. In view of the changes that have taken place from the first forms of withdrawal, which began in the 1970s, until the extensive and complex fisheries legislation we have today, the detention institute has been slightly discussed in its full scope. It's e.g. not made any concrete assessment of the mechanism against the criminal offences provided for in Article 6 of the European Commission on Human Rights. The unclear range of the system clearly creates undue uncertainty, the system is not far-sighted, and there is a risk that there will be disproportionate and random decisions that are disproportionate to the rule break. There is a need to clarify the purpose and use of the query(s). A clear and prudent regulatory framework, in addition to strengthened legal certainty and legitimacy, could contribute to more effective management by facilitating the exercise of the rules and fewer issues of doubt and fewer complaints. So, for the practicalisation of the catch log and the requirement to evaluate the regulatory break-up fee system, fishermen are required to keep an electronic catch log and report on, among other things. estimated catch on board. If it turns out when landing the fish that the estimation on board was not accurate and had deviations, both the skipper and the reindeer layer may be penalised with fines and the withdrawal of the catch value if the skipper is to blame for the deviation. It is reported in the press that there are many fishermen who are upset about being punished for lack of skill in this exercise. The regulatory fee scheme was introduced on 1 March 2012 and was intended to decriminalise the less serious infringements of the fisheries legislation, including violations of the rules on keeping the fishing logbook. Norway’s Fiskarlag has stated that the practice of the scheme is that, despite the fact that there is a requirement for the skipper to be blamed for non-conformity, the fisheries authorities base an almost objective standard on which the report is based and that this is perceived as unreasonably for the many to whom it is applied. According to the Fiskerlage, there are strikingly few cases in which the fisherman gets an impact on his reasoning and explanation of the deviation. The impression is that it is very often that the directorate believes that the measures the skipper has established were not good enough, and that he should have done more in those cases where the deviation was more than 14 pst. There is a need for dialogue and information to specify the good enough catch estimation procedures, which meet the requirements of attention of the fisheries authorities and which are at the same time practical and feasible. The rulebreak fee scheme has now been in place for more than five years. It is, as many people say, natural now to carry out an evaluation of the scheme to see whether it works satisfactorily or whether there is a need for change, for example: to increase the level of indebtedness from minor to gross negligence. The question is: does the Minister for Fisheries agree that an evaluation of the scheme should be carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e600	First of all, I thank the interpellant for promoting the matter. Of course, I would also like to make it clear that I cannot comment on the individual matter that the representative Grimstad is dealing with in the interpellation. If I have understood correctly which case the representative is looking for, it is a matter of withdrawing catch which is subject to complaint proceedings in the Fisheries Directorate. Then, of course, it's impossible for me to comment on it. So to the more general question of the legal certainty of fishermen. This issue is regularly discussed in the media, and on some occasions the Norwegian Fisheries Team has addressed it with the fisheries authorities and with the Council of State. It should be noted that the legal certainty of fishermen is threatened and that legal certainty for fishermen is worse than for other groups. Unfortunately, this debate is marked by some misunderstandings. In particular, the term ‘legal certainty’ may be misunderstood. That's why I want to spend some time explaining it a little bit more. The traditional understanding of the concept of ‘legal certainty’ is that it concerns basic principles, such as: to know what action has been allegedly taken, and what rule this action is a violation of the right to object and to defend itself against a claim that there has been a breach of the rules, to be helped, for example. by a lawyer, to defend himself against a claim that one has committed a breach of the rules, and that one should be able to get his case tried in two instances, by complaint. Such rules apply to fisheries matters, as to other matters. The Administrative Act and the Administrative Law have general rules on this, which apply in fisheries matters as in all other cases. The discussion under the heading of the legal certainty of fishermen is therefore a little confusing because, in reality, the principles of legal certainty are not being discussed, but two specific arrangements in particular. One scheme is the so-called administrative withdrawal of catch value. Such withdrawal shall take place when a rule is broken in connection with the harvesting of fish and thus the catch is illegal. Such withdrawal is not a legal sanction or punishment. It is simply a question of withdrawing the value of a catch that the fisherman has never been entitled to. The other system is the administrative imposition of an infringement fee. This is a penalty for a breach of the rules when there is blame. Both of these schemes are enshrined in the fisheries legislation adopted by the Stortinget. The system of withdrawal of catches is a system that has been regulated in fisheries for many decades. The system is not specific to fisheries. For example, if you are harmed by: Taking a bicycle belonging to another person is obvious that you have to give up the bike, regardless of whether you took another person's bike on purpose or in thoughtlessness. If you suddenly step down another customer's goods into your own shopping bag, you must, of course, also give away the goods when this is discovered, even if it was perhaps the person in the box who sent the goods on the wrong side of the “separation slip” and you yourself are innocent. It's easy to see the parallel to the fisheries: if you, for example: if you are fishing in a closed area, you must give up the value of the catch you have taken. If you fish for one species and you get more interference from another species than is permitted, you have to give up what goes beyond the legal interference. If the catch is actually a direct fish on the species that you could not fish, you have to give away the whole value. Nor is it unreasonable to sometimes give up such catch value when the value becomes high. The example of fishing in a closed area can illustrate this: Should there be less reason to give up the value of a large catch than a small catch when fishing in a closed area? The principle here is that the fisherman should not retain the value of fish once harvest rules have been violated. However, costs such as: bring the catch to land, and you normally keep 20 pst. the value of the costs incurred if the illegal catch was not intended. With regard to the system of infringing fees, it is a matter other than the withdrawal of catches. This is an administrative penalty, which exists in many areas of society. In these cases, it is about punishing breaches of the rules when subjective guilt has been proven. The breach of the rules may be intentional or negligent. The 2008 Marine Resource Act provides for this, as are many other laws in different areas of society. This was also welcomed by the Norwegian Fisheries Team as a decriminalisation of the less serious offences. Fisheries management has taken a long time to implement the scheme, including: to ensure that all legal guarantees are guaranteed. The first infringement fee was imposed in 2012 and since then the scheme has been slowly but surely developed and extended. The infringement fee is used in cases that are so serious that they would otherwise be reported to the police. However, the scheme means that the least serious of these types of cases can now be dealt with administratively. The aim is to relieve the police, police authorities and courts. In addition, the fisherman avoids the burden of being reported to the police and fined. Instead, he can get through the matter through an administrative decision. Infringement fee means a significant simplification in relation to whether the case should be prosecuted. Of course, this simplification benefits both the economic operator and the administration. It has been clarified by the legislation which breaches of the rules can be prosecuted with an infringement fee. In addition, it is regulated that the fee may not exceed NOK 100000. The fisherman receives advance notice, may be represented by a lawyer, may appeal against a decision on an infringement fee, and may bring the matter before a court if a complaint is rejected. One would like to discuss these two arrangements, but there is no need to make it a question of fishermen's legal certainty. That is why, in my view, there is no need now to carry out a general review or evaluation of the legal certainty of fishermen. Instead, of course, I will continue to be responsive when the fishermen or fishermen's organisations ask me to consider concrete changes to the legislation, as I have done throughout my period as Minister for Fisheries. It also applies to similar practices in relation to these kinds of cases. The interpellant has raised a question that raises a debate. That's very good. As far as fishing legislation is concerned, it is both comprehensive and complex, sometimes completely disruptive. In the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, we consider improvements almost every day. Of course, I have to listen to the fishermen. I am, of course, listening to representatives of bigots who are concerned about having a fisheries and a fisheries code that is easy to deal with, and which ensures that our fishermen get the best possible framework conditions – and that is the whole of the legislation – I have always done so, and I will continue to do so. However, I do not agree that there is a need to carry out a general evaluation or review of the legal certainty of fishermen. This is not where the problems lie. We should not use administrative resources at this time, but rather seek to achieve improvements, simplifications in an already complex regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e646	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I must say I am very pleased that the council says he will listen to the need for change, because the need for change has probably been signaled clearly and clearly from the industry over time. And I'm happy because the Council of State is so clear that he wants to look at this in line with what comes out from representatives of the industry. The Aquaculture Act introduced in 2014 a rule on administrative withdrawal, and withdrawal can only take place in so far as it would not be clearly immaterial, cf. the third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 29a of the Aquaculture Act. If the administration considers that a case-by-case withdrawal would be clearly unimaginable, the withdrawal shall not take place. Thus, the size of aquaculture has meant that it has been right to give an opportunity to understand those who are required to enforce the legislation. That's where one thinks that in the marine resource law, equal opportunity to exercise understanding should also come into place. The council says he is listening – I am pleased – but I must also say that with an export value that one has the aim of increasing to 500 billion. a few years in advance, this is and will be one of the most important industries in the country — and jobs. Then it's actually a little disappointing that we see such an empty hall as we see today. Only a few of the parties do well to spend the time and opportunity to participate in this debate, which many of my thoughts are so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e655	As I also said in my main speech on the design of the fisheries legislation: in view of the time when the catch is to be withdrawn, in what kind of cases it is to be reacted to with the penalty, this with the principle of equality and discretion, which may be different, these are, of course, areas that we can discuss. I'd like to discuss that. I'm looking for simplification all the time. But my point in relation to the interpellant's main focus is that I see no reason to raise this question against legal certainty. There I believe that I and the interpellant can quickly agree, and I think we can also quickly agree to look at the legislation to find simplifications in this regard. When it comes to the Sea Resource Act, I think it's a little early to review the sanctions regulations. It was also mentioned in the preparatory work in 2008 that there should be an appropriate review at the appropriate time. In the first case we got, in 2012, an infringement fee started to apply – and only for some very specific types of infringements. That's why I think it's a little early to do that type of review right now. I would also like to mention that there are eight cases notified by the Norwegian Fisheries Team, which have been sent to the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. It's hard for me to comment on these, because it's about eight cases in a court of law. These are matters that can also end in the courts, and then it is not natural that we discuss them. But of the eight cases, my department has rejected six, and we've met one. The eighth of these cases we still have to deal with. It shows that we have regulatory structures as well. In order to achieve a level playing field, equal treatment, there are systems that go all the way up to the political decision-making process in order to achieve a level playing field around the country. It also shows that legal certainty is ensured for fishermen, in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e666	First, I would like to thank the representative Oskar Grimstad for raising this debate. Both the Right Party and the Progress Party have been busy with this theme for quite some time, and in 2011, a Document 8 was put forward on this theme, which suggested that the government should carry out a review of the legal certainty of fishermen. After hearing the Council of State here today, I can quite agree that how one defines the concept of "security of justice" has probably had a big impact on how different councils have dealt with this, quite coincidentally and equally. So there might be a little bit of confusion for us, and not least for others in society as well. However, I believe that this is actually about the use of power for our administrative apparatus and how this is done in individual cases. I would like to see one example from my municipality, where there was a coastal fisherman at ‘Bogasund’ – it was about the autumn, in October, either in 2014 or 2015 – who was drawn to report 18 pst. error of its catch on mackerel. He had 16 tons of ice on board, and it was unlikely difficult to estimate how much mackerel there was in his catch on board. But when he came ashore and this was a road, it was 18 pst. Error. It was in the middle of the season, and he couldn't influence his total quota to a special extent – not at all, actually. The sum of the allowances was constant and had nothing to do with his bombing to report the correct number. This matter was raised, and it is a challenge that it is the same administrative apparatus that deals with the appeals as well. He ended up with a fine of NOK 10000 and the withdrawal of the catch for NOK 75 000. We can all be a few in that it shouldn't pay to be a basement – we can be quite a few of them all. But there is still a little contrast to the withdrawal of this catch for NOK 75 000 when one in a way had no economic benefit from this – as if he had the possibility of doing so. Then I would like to read and refer to a letter that was received by the Business Committee in spring 2011, when the former Council of State wrote: ‘I would like to stress that administrative withdrawal is not a sanction. The purpose of administrative detention is not to impose a penalty on an evil but only on the person who has caught or caught illegal catches to give up the benefits that that catch would confer.» – I.e. a withdrawal of the gain from having reported errors. There was no gain here, but the catch was suspended for 75 000 kroner. This contrasts slightly with how fishermen experience ‘legal certainty’ for some, which may be quite wrong, and how administrative intervention is managed and the level of administrative intervention. I very much appreciate the fact that the Council of State wants to discuss this, and that he is listening to these challenges. I hope that we can take this with us in the further work, as the Council of State signals, and perhaps look at the level of these administrative interferences against bug reports and the possibility of winning the bug report that has been made. Because with today's reporting routines, and one that can't affect the total catch and fish more than the quota, it's unthinkable for many to be taken from a large part of their catch because they've missed reporting. A missing person has reported errors — it is simply perceived as a punishment even if one in the law says that there is no punishment for administrative withdrawal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e687	I also do not go into the specific event that is referred to here. My information on the matter is actually only via the media, and, believe it or not, it's not always that the media illuminates just as well all sides of a case – nor the fishing press. The case isn't final either, so I left it. So to the word that's used in the question, "the security of justice" for the fishermen. This was done by the Minister of Fisheries in a good way, and I share the views of the Council of State there. But the themes of the interpellation about lack of legitimacy, lack of understanding and about today's system are fair, I think I'm quite in a position to discuss here. There is no one who thinks that fishermen should not adhere to laws, regulations and regulations, just like everyone else, or that individual riders – large or small boat – should not be up-to-date with the rules, laws and regulations. I also do not understand that there is a question about the interpellant here, but whether the legislation is clear enough. Digitalisation has made it easier to find in the jungle, but it does not help if the legislation is not clear enough. A review in line with the aquaculture legislation that I thought I was in place. Then there is always an assessment of how detailed a regulation should be – simplifications, discretion – but that the fishermen, who use our generality, have to find themselves in strict regulations, I think the Stortinge stands at the back. But the rules must, as I said, be clear. In my view, the reversal of evidence is an expression in any case. A time and energy must be spent proving innocence. One gets a reaction and has to prove innocence in order to go free. Fishermen say it's too easy to be stamped to go beyond the code. A colorful language is also sometimes used in between, but the important question is: Are the fishermen cared for in a fair and fair way? I want to raise the question of whether or not detention is punishment. The break in the house or delivery leads to the withdrawal today. Withdrawal is not punishment, said the Minister for Fisheries, if I perceive it correctly, and he showed to take another's bike. Well, the Human Rights Commission's assessments are a little different in this case. They're also superior to Norway, so they have to stay in Norway. And then we're all familiar with the fact that there are two types of intrusions. There is the withdrawal of multiple catches, of which there is no discussion – all of them some that it is going to happen – and then there is the withdrawal of parts or the whole catch, which we are discussing here. When you drag in parts or all of the catch, you get the reaction from the fishermen, and there is a lack of legitimacy among the fishermen. I'd like to add that those who practice the retraction are just doing their job. We're the lawmakers who have to take the noise here. We need to ensure that the legal basis is so clear and reliable that it is possible to adhere to it, and that all professionals have to stick to – and stay informed about – the rules of their profession. There's no discussion about that either. There's one set of rules. One may disagree with the rules, but then organisational or political work is needed to change them. All of them, most of the fishermen stick to the legislation that exists, and there is a reason that the rules have come. Can't put out its use if you know that you can't move that day back? Of course not. There's no one to think of. In fact, fishing requires more than normal planning. There is a difference between being the managing director of an office and on board a fishing boat, large or small. This also knows all the fishermen, and they respect it. Unindebted debt, a broad and open policy of withdrawal - there is no indication of which non-indebtedness should be met by automatic withdrawal. Here we are at the heart of the problem. In the aquaculture law, it is the exercise of discretion. This should also be considered in the Marine Resource Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e705	It may be possible to discuss whether the ‘legislative status of fishermen’ or ‘legal certainty’ is appropriate in this context. But at least that's what's used both by the industry and by the individual fisherman, who then feels that one doesn't have the legal certainty that one should expect. Well, that's at least the circumference that's been used. We all understand what this is all about. It's about the fact that those who are set to manage legislation and laws can manage this in a way that makes it possible to use discretion in matters, especially in smaller cases. I like one thing. The Minister for Fisheries is very clear that he is looking for simplifications. Governments are also clear in their listening attitude to changes in cooperation with the industry in the future, which I believe is absolutely necessary. In conclusion, I would also like to stress that my criticism is not to frame those who are set to enforce a code. They're doing a job they're on. Then, as politicians, who make this legislation and the law, we get to make sure that the law is so that those who are going to enforce it can do it in a good and appropriate way, which makes sense both the industry and the resources we are going to manage.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e716	I think that both the interpellant and the representative Heggø have good insight into this. If we manage to boil it down to being more clear, or at least get some clarity and clarification on what is the mind behind a code that is initially complicated, I'm going to contribute to the best for it. I also record that there is a link up with aquaculture – i.e. the field of administrative sanctions – it is also developing in Norway. There's reason to think it's getting bigger. This is why it will also be a challenge to put in place similar practices in this area. The rules on aquaculture and on fishing are different, and it is good that the Administrative Act has been amended. Those changes are not yet in force. Therefore, there is also a reason to wait for these changes to the Administrative Act and the rules that had to come out of it to take effect before a major review of the Marine Resource Act is launched. But there is nothing to prevent the Council of State or the Stortinget from working every day to clarify and ensure that at least one person is given a practice that is believed to be the basis of the sanctioning system that exists today. I have received many feedback when I have traveled along the coast, that there are different practices. There is then a field in which it is difficult to get fishermen to respect the case-law or administrative practices. That's why I think it's an area that we're all going to put a lot of emphasis on trying to set things straight forward. Then we'll have to wait for changes in the Administration Act, and then we'll see at some point if it's necessary to have a new review of the Maritime Resource Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e725	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e741	Let me start by saying that it is the fourth year in a row that I am the case rapporteur for this annual report from the Riksaudition, and it is with great satisfaction that for the fourth time from this pulpit I can say that the state companies are well run, and that the Ministry of Ownership is very competent in their management. It's always room for improvement. With as good a people as the Riksrevision has, it's clear that room for improvement is being revealed and reported on. Although it is clear that there are some deviations that can be serious, when you think about how many thousands of people are working in these businesses, and how many billions of dollars we are talking about, I believe that I am on very safe ground when I say that essentially these companies are managed and managed very well. The Committee has delivered an opinion which is unanimous on most points. Where there is disagreement, I assume that the minority or the alternative majority will explain their views. The setting is on 74 pages, so I'm not going to go through all the findings and comments in my case rapporteur's post, but I'm going to comment on some significant points. The first point I would like to make specifically is the Riksrevision's finding that there are some considerable local variations in the reporting culture in which you have to report and learn about adverse events in hospitals. They find that there are considerable variations in the number of adverse events. This may, of course, mean that some hospitals and units are incredibly good at avoiding such events – we probably also have that type of hospital and that type of department – but there is enough reason to assume that there are also some cases where there is a lack of good enough reporting culture. Notification of adverse events is important in order to prevent and avoid such events in the future. Building such a culture starts with good management, highlighting the importance of it, and asking for information down the system. In addition, it is important to have technical solutions that are not a practical obstacle in everyday life to reporting such things. A Joint Committee therefore welcomes the fact that the Council of State has announced a legislative proposal with a notification part to the Grand Duchy before the summer, as well as a special attention to this field in the course of the process. In the same sector, the National Audit Office also finds that there is little control and transparency about whether the Hospital Partner HF provides cost-effective services. Hospital partner HF is an exclusive right provider of ICT services to Health South-East. In such a position where there is no competition that can be exacerbated, other measures are important to ensure that cost-effectiveness is good. One thing is to know the price, but you also have to know what you actually get at that price. The Committee considers that the easiest way to know this is by benchmarking both price and quality against one or more external actors. We ask the Ministry to consider whether this can be done in an appropriate way. The National Audit Office has further examined the follow-up of the Ministry of Ownership to the social responsibility of the companies in the Ownership Dialogue. They find that this dialogue is strengthened after concrete events, which the Committee finds quite natural. It's quite obvious that one follows in a thorough manner when events have arisen. At the same time, it is important that social responsibility is also the theme of the ownership dialogue in cases where such concrete events have not occurred. An overall committee welcomes the fact that the study shows that companies are actively involved in social responsibility. It reinforces what I initially said about these companies being well run. At the same time, the Committee would add that the fact that the companies themselves have an active position on these issues must not prevent the ministry from continuing to challenge continues to raise critical questions, in order to ensure that the companies understand that the department has quite clear expectations. The National Audit Office has also found that there is variation in the quality of the socio-economic analyses used by Statnet as a basis for the development of the central electricity network. The estimation of societal benefits may vary from project to project, as well as the fact that all data are necessarily not open. It makes it difficult for the public, for the media and for outside environments to assess these things and make verifications. The national audit finds that the cost control is very good. It suggests that Statnet has competent people in this area, but in the monopoly situation that the company is, transparency is important, and it is important to checkability to ensure that the social benefits and cost-effectiveness are optimal. In addition, the National Audit Office finds that the Item does not reach the income target of the owner. Nor have they been able to meet the owner’s requirement to improve the profitability of the logistics business. The item Norway is a limited liability company engaged in logistics throughout the Nordic region. The members of the Committee of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Left, i.e. a majority in this Chamber, consider that it is not satisfactory that several of the business lines have contributed to significant losses during the period, despite the fact that the Storting has determined that individual companies in the group are to have profitability on an independent basis or contribute to group synergies over time. This was confirmed in Message. St. 18 for 2011–2012, which was delivered to Stortinget by then Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa from the Senterpartiet, who was the State Council of Jens Stoltenberg's government. The representatives of the Socialist Left Party voted in favour of these points in the Stortinget in 2012, and I assume that the representatives of these parties will explain what has changed since then, since they now write that the main task of the Post is not to go ahead with profit, but other things. The item is referred to as a limited liability company with a commercial activity throughout the Nordic region. So if someone is to provide good postal services across the country, it must be the Stortinge that makes it through wise decisions and regulations. It is not a responsibility of an international group. Furthermore, a unanimous committee is behind the recommendations of the National Audit Office that the Ministry of Transport should follow up the company’s performance development, is clear on the expectations for future development and has clear performance expectations for the group. As a rule, the national audit has also reported on the follow-up to previously reported cases. All cases have been closed except for one case, which concerns the management of companies in which universities and universities manage the interest. There is still anomalies that are not closed, but an overall committee understands that making changes is a large and partly complex portfolio. It may take a long time if it is to be done properly. We are clear that such things must be done properly. Finally, I would like to point out that the Centre Party has submitted some rather extensive comments, which I assume the Centre Party will explain. I am not going to spend a long time commenting on them in addition to the fact that fundamental clarifications about how we should manage publicly owned companies are a matter for the ownership announcement that is being dealt with in Stortinget. This is a matter of whether the departments and companies have followed up what the Stortinget has actually adopted in the past. It can also be added that during the period 2005–2013 the Centre Party both supported and initiated a number of the conversions that the Centre Party is now criticising in this setting. Otherwise, I will refer to the setting. It is very much unanimous, with some exceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e771	It is such that the National Audit Office has found the basis for comments on the government’s management of the State’s interests under the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Transport. Good patient safety provides that healthcare professionals learn from unwanted events and actively prevent events from happening again. A central element of this is the existence of internal aberration systems in which healthcare professionals can report undesirable events, including near-accidents. The National Audit Office examined 19 health services, and these studies show that there is a need to improve the reporting culture. The culture and leadership of each department has a decisive impact on the type of events being reported, says the National Audit Office. The audit also shows that high user thresholds in the electronic aberration system, time pressure and different definitions of an undesirable event constitute barriers to a single reporting parksis in hospitals. A narrower definition of what is considered an unwanted event will limit which events are added so that fewer events are reported. It is also the case that the scope of messages is also influenced by whether leaders and the addendum explain the occurrence of ‘human failure’ or ‘system failure’. Unwanted events are often explained by individuals having made a mistake or a mistake, which can lead to a culture where adding actually looks at the aberration system as an indication system. We should follow that up. I did not say that in the introduction, but I refer to parts of the setting, too much – or most – in this setting is unanimous. The audit also shows that Hospital Partners do not have systematic information on the costs of the different services, and that Health South-East RHF is under-followed if Hospital Partners provide cost-effective quality ICT services. Lack of transparency about costs makes it difficult for healthcare professionals to assess whether the services they receive are cost-effective, writes the National Audit Office. I agree with the case spokesman that this must be taken into account. I just want to make an additional comment: Last week we received information about the Hospital Partner – that foreign IT workers have had access to health information about us. I felt a little need to comment on it even if this control is not about this, but I expect the Stortinget to come back to it. The National Audit Office also writes that Statnet’s socio-economic analyses are of varying quality, and relevant information is not always clearly presented in the decision base. Statnets provide too little facilities for ordinary people to follow up on the economy and costs of development projects. They also write that there is a potential for improvement in the department's ownership follow-up of Statnet. I believe that the review carried out by the National Audit Office here by Statnett is very important, because we need to have better control over critically important infrastructure for the country and the functioning of Statsnett. In view of the fact that several tens of billions have been invested in the last ten years, and that as much as 50–70 billion. kr shall be invested between 2016 and 2025, good control and evaluation of the activities are necessary. The entry does not reach the return target, says the Riksrevision. The weak results at group level are mainly linked to weak profitability in the logistics segment. They also say that the company has not been able to meet the expectations of the owner of a reduction in the remuneration of the logistics company. Furthermore, more business areas do not have our profitability, nor do they take into account identified synergies. One further writes that the owner, who is probably the Ministry of Transport, remains passive to Posten's weak performance development. The majority in the committee believe that the most important task of the post is actually to deliver mail. For this reason, we have written a note that the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party are some about. That's what I'm saying. ‘the main task of the Post is to ensure that the post reaches people across the country, at equal prices. In recent years, an increasing share of the Post has been exposed to competition. When more and more profitable tasks have been privatised, it has made it more difficult for the Post to finance the unprofitable services, for which the company has remained responsible. The majority believe that the most important task of the Post in the future should still not be to make profits, but to ensure that people across the country have access to equally good postal services and at the same price.’ Social responsibility is a word that is widely used, and it is important. For this reason, in the Ownership Communication, we have expressed expectations of the company when it comes to social responsibility — whether it be environment, equality, anti-corruption work or employee rights. Then it's important that the Riksrevision here in control check how the department and the companies work with social responsibility. It appears that the Ministry uses the ownership dialogue to challenge companies to varying degrees and that companies are subject to varying degrees of social responsibility. One sees that the dialogue between the departments and the companies has been tighter since the departments were familiar with unwanted events. We in the Control Committee have looked at this a little bit, both on the subject of VimpelCom, on Yara, etc. It is good that unwanted events lead to better follow-up, but should it not have been a larger part of the ownership dialogue in advance? The national audit finds that the follow-up of social responsibility is largely based on the company’s public reporting and risk assessments. That's not enough. It is positive that the state has been better in its work as owner, but we should perhaps have expected even more, because we expect an active state owner, as the state says he is. The National Audit Office also points out that the state should more closely exchange the good copies. We know we're smart, we need all the more knowledge about what's going on to prevent bad ownership and promote good ownership. In addition, the National Audit Office believes that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries should create more meeting places. I agree with that. One case that has been going on for several years – i.e. in this case – is the registration of waiting time. The last three years have commented on company control. In the setting last year it was necessary that the department continue to follow closely the efforts to ensure the correct recording of waiting time and follow-up. This year, the Riksrevision writes that they have noticed that the Ministry has taken more action to improve waiting list statistics. The national audit will close the case, but will continue to follow developments to ensure that the registered waiting times are real and in line with the legislation and assess the need for a new investigation. A number of members of the Committee – The Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Green and Left Environmental Party – made the following comments: «remarks the measures taken by the Ministry. The majority note that the case has been closed, but that the Riksrevision will follow developments to ensure that the registered waiting times are real and in line with the legislation, and assess the need for a new investigation’. The majority have also noticed that State Council Höie has stated that the Health Directorate will deliver its report on waiting time registration by 1 May this year. He came on May 3rd, so that's what we registered. Nevertheless, I think it is very important, as the Riksrevision writes, that the department must continue to follow closely up the work of ensuring proper and uniform recording of waiting times.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e817	The National Audit Board’s control of the management of state companies in 2015 is an important document because it provides a basis for learning from the experience. Therefore, the Centre Party also has a comprehensive note at the end of the suspension on page 29, where we point out the weaknesses in the conversion of management companies into state-owned or state-owned enterprises. It is important that we use such an opportunity to also discuss matters in principle. And there are some common features of the matters mentioned in this document 3:2 of the National Audit Office. There are features which are more or less general as a result of the transformation of management enterprises into state-owned or sub-rented enterprises. And the criticism presented by the Center Party relates to a lack of attention to the governance implications of changed organisation. In short, we believe that political governance as an instrument through circulars and instructions is largely replaced by market management, and this is reflected in intra-corporate practices. This applies, for example: as regards the Hospital Partner, where the Riksrevision expresses the following: ‘This means that the established indicators for 2016 are not sufficient to follow-up on the provision of good quality, cost-effective ICT services by Hospital Partner HF.’ Or as it says about Statnett: ‘Statistical networks provide insufficient incentives for the public to follow-up of social economy and costs in the development projects.’ As a result, the authorities may not instruct companies to make choices contrary to the company's optimum logic when reorganising in this way. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this makes it easy for the new state companies to become slightly more raw than their most angry competitors. We do have a number of cases of this within the Post, where the Post transport services in the truck industry are seen as being closest to the premise of acting in such a way that a pusher pays and working conditions for the employees. This is a big challenge. I respect the fact that the rest of the committee says that this should be addressed in the next review of the future ownership messages, but it's important for us to also take it up here, because it's part of the important thing about the Riksrevision's remarks that it can also provide the basis for comments in the area of principle. Otherwise, I will address some of the themes that have been addressed. The first concerns as Hospital Partner HF, which has its base in Drammen, which is subject to Health South-East RHF, and where it is then decided to acquire services within ICT infrastructure from an external private supplier, cf. the business meeting in Health South-East RHF on 15 September 2016. That decision is natural when we see the Council of State letter to the National Audit Office, which shows a very one-sided focus on cost-effectiveness. The focus of the Riksrevision was to establish systems that improved the cost-effectiveness of the Hospital Partner, to gain transparency about what services from the Hospital Partner cost, and to discover the efficiency potential of the Hospital Partner. The government then chose to go much further than that and privatized the services of a company abroad. And with the recent revelations that health information has been compromised, I expect this to be a matter of its own for Stortinget soon. Furthermore, Statnett is a central company in this document. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Oil and Energy strengthen its ownership follow-up of socio-economic profitability and cost-effectiveness in the development projects of Statnet, and that it ensure that the company demonstrates greater transparency and transparency around socio-economic assessments, so as to provide a better basis for the public to follow up on the economy and costs. Thus, the point is socio-economic profitability in terms of state-owned investments in the electricity grid. That's big numbers we're talking about. As far as I know, there are now tens of billions invested in Statnet in the last decades. It is committed to an investment of between 50 and 70 billion. kr, which is to be invested between 2016 and 2025, and therefore further monitoring and evaluation of the activities are necessary. The National Audit Board bases its evaluation on the current legislation on whether Statnett discharges its responsibilities for the societal rational development of the central network. The National Audit Office has not evaluated whether the legislation covered by Statnett is well enough, whether there are any shortcomings in this legislation or its practice. In addition to security of supply, Statnet increasingly uses arguments on socio-economic benefits as a basis for investment. A positive social economy is, among other things: extra-territorial links achieved with increased prices of power to consumers, while consumers largely cover investment. This appears to be negative from the point of view of a consumer, and further increases in electricity prices have consequences for inflation and profitability in other industries, which also contribute to the income and employment of society. It is therefore interesting to consider further whether these elements have been adequately illuminated in the investigations and, where appropriate, what assumptions have been made. At all, this issue of the export of renewable energy through international connections is an important issue for any country to discuss and for which there is far too little transparency in Norway about the overall societal consequences. It is quite obvious that if Norway gives away the advantage of having a reasonable price of renewable energy, it will give one by itself a advantage that can help create employment and good jobs across the country. It's essential, that this comes out in a much better way, so that we can get a better public change of words. It has also addressed the registration of waiting lists by regional health enterprises. There I refer to the proposal made by the representative of Kjersti Toppe, who has proposed that patients' right to be treated should be strengthened within a reasonable time frame and that there should be full transparency on waiting lists and waiting times. This is a proposal that is being considered in ours, and it is important that we get a thorough review of how waiting lists are recorded, and today's practice. For as far as we are told, today's practice is to conceal the fact that a person should have waiting lists to show to what extent people have to wait short or long time to get the necessary treatment. People need quick treatment, and then the waiting lists have to show it and not obscure a fact. In the end, I would just like to say briefly about the Post, which was also the representative of the Workers' Party: for the Central Party, it is central that the Post is intended to reach people throughout the country, that it emerges safely, that you can trust it, that it comes quickly, that it comes at equal price in terms of letter, and on all business days. This is not being implemented. So we're going to assume that we had a good system, that we have a system that's much worse, and it's going to be an important task for a new government to fix.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e849	Let me just give some factual information to the committee's debate. There is an impression that the Post has been given terribly poor conditions over the last few years, at least that was the impression of the representative Lundteg giving. I would have liked someone to justify it with examples. I read in the settings that more and more profitable tasks have been privatised, and that it has made it more difficult for the Post to finance the unprofitable services. I should also like to see that justified. There would be an important signal to the government, for we know that there are no significant, neither large nor small, competitors to the Post that take market shares from the Post – on the contrary. The challenge for the Post is not that there are market players delivering mail, the challenge is that people send their information with technology. They're sending e-mails. So if the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV here mean that we have to limit people's access to e-mails, it's quite alarming. But it's actually the competitor the Post is experiencing right now. If the centre party here knows about players who have taken market shares, it would be very useful for us to get information about it, because then the centre party knows something that a single state apparatus has not brought with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e856	This is a large area, I'm not going to take the whole debate now, but we can take the issue of the killing of newspapers on Saturdays. I expect the Council of State is familiar with how that experiment has gone, and how it works. The post submitted a tender based on their experience of how complex it was to bring Saturday newspapers to the mailboxes of people throughout the country. It was too expensive for the Council of State. The government chose another company, the company then chose a sub-contractor, and it has created so many complications for both the newspapers, who are responsible for getting their product out, and not least for those who still look at getting Saturday newspapers as something important, that I expect the council to be familiar with it. Therefore, the posts of the Council of State should be unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e861	In fact, the representative of Lundtigen did not address the issue, because what the Center Party writes is that more and more profitable tasks have been privatised. On Saturday postage was not profitable, it was extremely unprofitable. That is why the Post itself did not want to be redistributed, and they have saved many hundreds of millions of dollars on it. So the question we're really asking is, what profitable tasks have other actors come to take off the profits of the Post, which means that the Post cannot subsidize the unprofitable services? When it comes to the Saturday distribution of newspapers, it's true that there were problems initially, but if you look at the quality of distribution now, the numbers that are going on show that it's as good as when the Post had it. So I hope that the representative Lundtegegen also goes into the facts of the matter before he criticises, and not only does it out of old habit. It's quite right that what happened in the first few months, far from it, was good enough, but it's been fixed, simply because we've followed it strictly to those actors. The impression was also created that one no longer maintains the same price for mail distribution throughout the country – that is wrong. One gives the impression that one does not have the same service across the country – it is also wrong. One maintains the same price for the whole country, one maintains the same quality of supply throughout the country. So one has not seen new competitors who have gone into what has been profitable tasks for the Post, in addition to the technology companies that deliver e-mails. The only thing left here is in that case the struggle of the Centre Party against the e-mail, for example, that Lundtegen brought was not relevant to the question. So I hope that Lundtigen has an answer to what I actually asked about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e872	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e877	There has been no coincidence that the Post was established as a public company, to bring the post around to it quite a country means that you have to have a cross-subsidy. When you get a development that means that the most profitable parts of the turnover of mail or parcels are gradually taken over by private companies, the Post will be left with what is less profitable and yes, need transfers over the state budget. Therefore, it is quite natural for the Centre Party that we use money to finance the Post Office's services, so that that infrastructure should be up and, not least, that the enterprises that are around in the whole country can be sent packages in a fast and efficient way, so that business can be maintained. When it comes to the fact of mail delivery of newspapers, I haven't followed it in the last few months, but so far it was very bad, and I expect the Council of State to pay the bills of the newspapers where they had to establish the post delivery shipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e884	I think it's a little sad that we got verified here that the Central Party is basing its criticism on assumptions rather than facts. So none of the tasks that were profitable during the Central Party's reign have become unprofitable now as a result of competition from other postal operators. The rules currently applicable to the Post are the same as before in the case of new entrants. In that case, this is a flaming criticism from the red-green parties against the postal policy they practiced themselves. In that case, it's quite eye-catching. This is not how we should discuss with the Norwegian people – creating uncertainty about the services that I fully agree with are very important. Having a postal system that is the same for everyone across the country, at the same price, has also been government policy. That the center part gives the opposite idea is actually creating a discussion on a false basis. In the case of Saturday news assignment, it is also good to inform the Center Party that the error rate on 22 April was 2.37. That's the same thing as when the post office distributed-- plus minus, a little bit better, a little bit worse. When we talked about January, the error rate was 7,16 – so it has become one third of what it was. That was not good enough, and that is why we have gone in and complained about this. But it was even worse in November–December, when it didn't work, and that's why we went into this. So when the representative Lundtigen sits in the hall shaking his head when he gets facts here, but even has no facts to point to, it says a little about a difficult debate situation. The challenge that we have in securing a good postal service across the country, it handles this government. Furthermore, we're going to try to get a political debate based on facts. Scaring the districts the way the Center Party does, when they don't even have the facts to justify it, is a little constructive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e895	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e911	This is a unanimous opinion of the Committee, which is – at least compared to the previous case – relatively short, and I will also be brief in my introduction. The size decided in 2009 that we should have the best possible access to cultural heritage for the most part. You have it on one side, and then the Riks revision finds in its review that a large part of the cultural heritage is not digitized. But it's not necessarily that increased digitisation gives more access. It will do so in very many cases for works that are searched out and retrieved and used by the audience, but not for everyone. Digitalisation costs money, and some material is so little used that digitising those works would be cost-effective. It has to be professional judgement that determines what is being digitized and at what rate you do it. It is necessary to be able to make a professional assessment of the amount of resources to be spent on digitisation and digital communication versus more traditional dissemination. But in any case, it is important to have strategies, plans for this, that it is done systematically. This has been done in most parts of the sector, and after the Archives got this in place in 2016, it is now in place in all sectors, and it is very positive. Otherwise, the point on which the Committee is most acute is that the Riksrevision finds that there is a risk that digitally created archives may be lost as a result of their not being converted into readable format. There are also some archives where such a type of scenario could have a significant impact on the legal certainty of individuals because there are documents that could be important for individuals. If they disappear from the digitally created archives, there's nowhere else to be found. The Committee therefore requests that a promoter take action to prevent this from happening. It would be very unfortunate if that were to happen. Otherwise, I will refer to the unanimous vote by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e922	The cultural heritage is important to our identity. The cultural heritage of archives, libraries and museums are values that we want to take care of for the future. These values I want as much as possible to participate in. Digitalisation is therefore an important tool to make our cultural heritage available to the maximum possible. I am therefore pleased that the Riksrevision has examined how the digitisation of the cultural heritage is going on, and I would like to add some comments to the work that is being done. The National Audit Office’s survey shows that much good digitisation work is being done in the Swedish Archives Agency, the National Library and at our museums around the country. The efforts of the National Library to digitise the book collection have been successful. This digitisation has also received international attention. The National Audit Office also points to areas where the Archives and the Museums could have done more. Digitisation is a means of making cultural heritage available. The Committee stresses that institutions should use professional judgement in the selection of what is to be digitised. Professionally based prioritisation is an important principle for the further focus on digitisation in the Archives, National Library and Museums. This means that it would be irresponsible to initiate digitisation of all paper documents stored in the archive depots. To date, the Swedish Archives strategy has been to digitise the most requested documents. In addition, the agency has chosen to digitise documents that are at risk of damage. The Riksrevision study is for the period from 2010 to 2015. After 2015, important changes have been made to the Swedish Archives Agency. With these changes, the team will work on digitisation in a more systematic way. The conversion project Arkivverket 2020 was launched in 2016. It will improve the capacity of the department to prioritise the major challenges associated in particular with the lack of preservation of digitally generated documents, as the Riksrevision has commented. The Swedish Archives Agency has just completed an investigation into the transfer of digitally created documents to the archive depot. I will base the recommendation in this report on the follow-up to the case further. I will also follow up the cooperation between the Swedish Archives Agency and the National Library on the use of the national library’s digitisation capacity for increased archival scanning. When built for Norwegian health archives are completed at Tynset in 2019, a large-scale digitisation of patient records will be carried out from the period after 1950. Both of these projects will increase the amount of digitised archive documents. Both the National Library and the Swedish Archives are offices under the Ministry of Culture, and we therefore have the possibility of direct follow-up. In the case of the museums, the ratio is different. The museums are mostly autonomous units. They are organised as foundations, limited liability companies and intercommunal companies with a professional link to the museum section of the Norwegian Cultural Council. The State operating grants of the museums constitute a proportion of their total operating budget. Against these institutions, the Ministry of Culture has a principle that is important for us to follow, namely the principle of keeping the arm's length apart. But as a prerequisite for the operating grant, as expressed in the grant letters, we demand that the museums maintain high professional standards, have professional operations, are open and accessible to the public and take care of their collections and cultural-historical buildings. In addition, we demand that they digitize the collections and make them available online to the public, but we cannot in any way instruct the museums to prioritize this in front of collecting management, research or securing the values they are set to manage and watch. Each museum must decide for itself, based on its own professional judgement. The museums also need to assess for themselves which parts of the collections they want to prioritize digitisation. They themselves need to consider what digitisation actually means for the different types of material. There is a great difference between digitising bouquets and archive documents versus objects in a museum. How is a cultural-historical building to be digitised for it to be good enough? Does it have an external photo, or does the building have to have a 3D scanner inside? What about a bird skin from the Zoological Museum, an art installation from the National Museum or a large agricultural machine from the Jærmuseet? What is needed to ensure that these widely differing objects are adequately digitised and made available? Here, we politicians can't go into the details and take a position. These are the professional environments in the museums and users of the digitised material that can best be assessed, and of course priority must be given to all the other important tasks that the museums are expected to perform. However, from the Ministry of Culture, we will continue to invest in the benefits of all museums and the community, including digital infrastructure, the introduction of common, international standards and formats and other central follow-up. These are measures that maximise the efforts of the museums and the public to digitise and make available. In connection with the move of the Department of Museum Development of the Culture Council from Oslo to Bodø, which will take place in 2018, it would be natural to consider further strengthening this central professional function. Moreover, I agree with the Riksrevision's recommendation to strengthen the overall management of objectives and results in the field of the digitisation of cultural heritage. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry clarify the results to be achieved in the digitisation process, that we consider how reporting in areas can provide more and better information on status and progress, that we follow the achievement of results in the underlying agencies and help to clarify and solve problems addressed in the governance dialogue, such as the preservation of digitally created archives. This will be followed up by the Ministry of Culture in the departmental management of the Swedish Archives Agency, the National Library and Norwegian Cultural Councils and in the management of operating grants to museums. In addition, the Ministry of Culture will develop a strategy to make public cultural data more accessible for use and re-use, cf. Report. St. 27 for 2015–2016, Digital Agenda for Norway – ICT for a simpler everyday life and increased productivity. I would also like to facilitate cooperation between the Swedish Archives and the National Library on long-term storage, and that it is also considered to involve the museums in one overall solution. As I pointed out at the outset, I am very pleased that the Court of Auditors has taken hold of this important field and put it on the agenda. This provides us with a good basis to invest even more in making cultural heritage available digitally to current and future generations. I look forward to following up that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e947	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e965	The midwifery services in municipalities are very important in order to provide good maternity, maternity and maternity care and to provide preventive public health work for mothers and children. Pregnancy, maternity and maternity care should ensure a good start to life and have a health-promoting and disease prevention perspective. For many years, there has been a great deal of professional and political agreement on the importance of the earthquake services in the municipalities, and at the same time it has been very much in agreement that the capacity of the earthworm services must be increased. Nevertheless, there are too few midwives in the municipalities today, and there are too many places for underdeveloped midwives. The government statement states that the government will expand the provision of midwifery in the municipal health service. Unfortunately, this has not happened. Early efforts must be made in the municipalities, and the earliest efforts are made in the midwives. The low mortality rate is a major problem because it prevents health services from complying with the professional recommendations. The professional guidelines for better maternity care mean that women should be able to choose whether to follow up during pregnancy in a midwife, doctor or both. This option is disabled by many pregnant women. There are few settings per municipality. In 2015, the SSB stated that there were 0.7 midwives on average, and in many municipalities the midwives have small settings. This is not in line with the development of the health service where the municipal midwife has been given an increasing responsibility, and the hospital’s maternity wards and maternity clinics have fallen dramatically. The Earth Mortality Service was statutory in 1995, but today there is a huge gap between expectations and availability. In the National Professional Guideline on Childcare, New Life and Safe Childbirth for the Family, published by the Health Directorate in April 2014, there are a total of 41 recommendations on the infant, mother and family, among others. that the duration of hospitalisation is to be adapted to women and the needs of the newborn. The evaluation shall be carried out in consultation with women. Repatriation led an organised home delivery and support from women’s networks/partners. For women and newborns, where follow-up at home or local level is considered as equally safe as in the maternity/breeding department, one home visit by midwife is recommended before the first or second day after repatriation. For women with good experience from previous births, breast-feeding and maternity, a single home visit of midwife during the first three days after returning home, and for women with difficult breast-feeding, complicated birth processes, outpatient birth/home birth or family members in a risk situation, a multiple home visit should be offered during the first week after birth. It is recommended that women, familials and newborns are offered an individually adapted follow-up during maternity time in addition to the general recommendations in the guideline. It is suggested that a woman who wishes to breast-feed should either be in the maternity ward until breast-feeding is satisfactory and the child is fed to breast-feeding, or that the maternity and maternity ward should ensure that a woman will receive adequate help during home visits and consultation at a health centre. In 2015, the revised guidelines on maternity care came in order to detect violence and abuse against pregnant women in order to prevent and fight against violence in close relations. Fighting violence in close relationships, I feel that a mass concentration has been involved, and a strengthening of the earthworm service will be important in this work. Early lifestyle interview is also an action that will provide health benefits in both the short and long term. Mother’s life - style in pregnancy is of great importance to the child’s health, and many are motivated to change their life - style when they become pregnant. The monitoring of the home situation, the detection of choice, the use of alcohol, smoke, snuff and other drugs, drug use, diet, health and physical activity are the subject of such a conversation. These are descriptions of good maternity care, but at the same time there is a description of a maternity care that many municipalities today cannot meet. The 2016 study of breast-feeding services shows that only 11 pst. by Norway’s midwives cage in a municipality offering home visits to midwives in accordance with the guidelines. The midwives must have enough time. They must build a relationship with women, children and families over time in order to promote public health and discover power and abuse. In 2015, there were 200 municipalities without provision of municipal landmines. There are 60,000 pregnant in Norway every year and 300 midwiferies. The investigation of the midwifery unit did not show very different figures for 2016. The size has looked at these low numbers for a long time, but nothing has been done. Allerei in Document 8:121 S for 2010–2011 bring forward the following proposals by Sonja Irene Sjøli, Bent Höie, Øyvind Halleraker, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Elisabeth Aspaker: ‘The government is asking the government to evaluate the rate scheme for midwives and to find other more effective measures to stimulate the strengthening of the midwifery service in the municipalities’. During this period, the party has proposed to amend the funding scheme for the midwives services on the basis of an evaluation of the midwives’ tariff regime, making it more attractive for municipalities to apply to midwives. Today the municipalities tend to send pregnant to a doctor instead. New funding arrangements must stimulate interaction between primary and specialist services and decentralised provision. The financial system must not make it more profitable to send pregnant to a doctor than to a midwife, as it is today. The training capacity of midwives must be consistent with the targets that the Storting has seen for the midwife, and an active policy must be in place to increase the use of full-time settings in the municipal earthworm service. Given the government statement, the government should have seen something going on in these areas. During the treatment of the primary health notification, reference was made to the provision of funding schemes for all health services. I'm asking for the outcome of the midwifery service, and I think this isn't good enough. As I said, the Minister of Health and Health knew in 2011 that something should be done. Good maternity care is important to ensure the health of both mother and child after birth. Many municipalities explain the lack of follow-up and home visits after birth that the number of midwife settings has not increased since the guideline arrived in 2014. The carrying out of maternity visits will go beyond maternity care. The lack of strengthening of the midwifery services in the municipalities has consequences, also because there are short lay times in hospitals many places. Ground murder prevention is also important for the prevention and detection of birth depression and support for breast-feeding. My questions to the Council of State are: What are the government's measures to strengthen the provision of midwifery in municipalities? Will the government contribute to the transfer of resources to the municipalities? And will the government take care to change the funding, so that one gets to increase the number of municipal midwife settings?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1008	I would like to thank the representative Toppe for putting the capacity of the municipal midwife offer on the agenda. The Interpellant believes that the implementation of the 2014 maternity care guideline is too slow and that it is linked to insufficient capacity in the municipal midwifery service. Reference is made to a study carried out by the Agency in 2015 and that only around 11 pst. by the midwives in Norway live in municipalities offering early home visits to midwives after returning from the maternity home. Good follow-up of mother and child after birth is of great importance — psychosocial, medical and nutritional. Developing family-friendly maternity care is an important input in the 2009 EEAG on maternity, maternity and maternity care. We have followed up the message regarding both the whole of the course and the individual parts of the offer to families in this life phase. A key objective of government is to strengthen health promotion and prevention in municipalities. Pregnancy and maternity care, which are among the tasks normally performed by midwives, is an important part of this work. These tasks are mainly related to the health centre establishment, although a majority of pregnant women also have one or more consultations with their permanent staff. I believe that the government has done a great deal to make it possible for municipalities to strengthen health care, where most of the follow-up takes place. Over the years, the government has strengthened the provision of healthcare to children and young people in general and to pregnant women, children and young people from 0 to 19 years of age and their families — through the provision of health care and school health services. For 2014-2017, EUR 734.4 million is set aside. kr through the municipal framework to strengthen health station and school health services. In addition, the budget comparisons for 2016 and 2017 set at 251.3 million. NOK for an earmarked grant that can be applied for by municipalities. The government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has been committed to developing application criteria that meet well. The deadline for applying for funding was 19 March and the Directorate-General for Health is now assessing the applications. With this in mind, the government has made it possible for municipalities, which are responsible for municipal health and care services and the provision of services to different groups, to choose to strengthen health and school health services with the kind of skills they need most. It is the municipalities that know their citizens best, and the funds give municipalities good opportunities to strengthen, for example. the midwife's competence if this is where the shoe presses the most. For many years, there has been a relatively weak trend in the number of midwifery in health and school health services, but the SSB KOSTRA figures for 2015 may indicate that government policies have now broken this trend and are in a positive trend. While the number of midwifery works from 2013 to 2014 only increased by 9 annual works, the number increased by 35 annual works from 2014 to 2015. A small reservation must be made here for a break in the statistics due to a conversion in the SSB last year. It will therefore be extra exciting to see what the 2016 figures show when they arrive in June. The total number of yearly jobs in health and school health services has increased by 230 yearly jobs from 2013 to 2015. Several guidelines have been developed in this field in recent years, and these are an important tool for health professionals. I would like to mention the guide on quality requirements for maternity care, the guidelines for home birth, the guidelines for maternity care and the guidelines for maternity care, where the theme of exposing violence was revised in 2014. The review of the 2005 full guidelines on maternity care is expected to be completed during the year we are in. Obstetrics are changing. Several women leave early after birth. This is essentially a desired development. With previous discharges from food establishments, there is a need to develop new solutions to follow up on mothers and children in the first days after birth. It is a goal that more of this follow-up should be done locally where the family lives. National occupational guidance for maternity care is a useful tool in this work. The national survey on maternity, maternity and maternity care carried out in 2012 shows that many were satisfied with these services. But these are also improvement points. This is particularly the case for the provision of families during the maternity period. Obstetrics are the responsibility of both health companies and municipalities. In the past, hospitals had responsibility for follow-up the first 14 days after birth, before the municipality/health station took over. However, much of the follow-up to specialist health services is still taking place, for example: in nursing and maternity outpatient clinics, in local maternity wards or on early home visits by midwives. Municipalities and health regions need to work together to build up competences and capacities in maternity care outside hospitals. The Parties shall be obliged to conclude cooperation agreements, inter alia: on prevention and midwifery services. As part of the follow-up to the Storing Communication A happy event has also developed regional plans for maternity, maternity and maternity care. Both the cooperation agreements and the regional, locally adapted plans are important tools. New offers will need to be developed over time and adapted to local conditions. I was already informed in 2014 – when the guidelines on maternity care were published – that several municipalities were trying out new forms of work, for example. by offering early home visits to midwives. Now we've come to 2017. I both believe and hope that more municipalities will offer early home visits when it is necessary, than when the Agency carried out its study in 2015. It is important that municipalities and healthcare companies cooperate on the provision of maternity care and on the shared use of midwifery resources. As an example of cooperation, Health Bergen has tried out new models in collaboration with the municipalities, where midwife follows up mother and children after repatriation. This is an offer that has been very well received by the users. Today, there is great flexibility in the provision of maternity services. Depreciation is assessed in dialogue with local health and care services and with the user himself. Health undertakings shall not dismantle their offers without proper offers being established in the municipalities concerned. The midwife's competence is important in a good follow-up. The government has therefore submitted to the Stortinget a proposal to legislate for midwives in the Health and Welfare Services Act as part of the core competence that all municipalities should have. Work is also in progress on revising the regulation on the health promotion and prevention of the municipality in health and school health services. I intend to send a draft to the hearing before the summer. There, I suggest that the service be linked, among other things. midwife. The development of full-time maternity services in all municipalities must take place over time and adapt to local needs. Economic grants, professional guidelines, agreements and regional plans are important instruments and municipalities are well in the process of strengthening the capacity of this important service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1050	Thank you for your reply. The Council of State indicates that some new solutions have been put in place in some places. I have visited such a centre, which is called the near-north centre, in the municipality of Us, which has a cooperation with Health Bergen. The point is that they have a collaborative project where the health care provider is funding for a few years. It's the funding that's the challenge for many municipalities. Establishing new measures costs money, and it's money that municipalities don't see they have. The Midwife at Os is responsible for the mother and children for up to five days after birth, from the time they are printed out. Then takes over normal health station operations. This is something that one could have established in all parts of the city and in all municipalities, especially when one is going to get the new children's clinic, where the women's clinic is going in, and where one has an average bedtime of at least no more than two days – perhaps someone is out after six hours as well. I fully agree with the Council of State that it is possible to facilitate the follow-up of women who are pregnant, but what is the big appeal point is that this is not clear in the municipalities, this is not being funded by the municipalities. The responsibility of the women who are pregnant is transferred from five days in hospital to two days, without the municipalities being given a new crown to finance the corresponding supply. The proposal which, among other things, The Minister of Health himself suggests in the opposition, to evaluate the tariff arrangements to look at new financing mechanisms that make it more lucrative for municipalities to assign midwives, have been put in a drawer. I also don't hear the state council say anything about what's going to happen, and what time, if any, it's going to happen. It is clear that it is positive that several midwives are now being added to the municipalities, but it is a great aftertaste, and one has received many more tasks. The survey conducted by midwives shows that most people say that the jobs they need are not allocated. My follow-up question to the Council of State will be whether he can do something about how he thinks that municipalities should be funded to create more new measures, such as midwives, where one can have a better follow-up of midwives, in line with the professional recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1067	What I think the representative and I agree on is that there is a need for more midwives in the municipalities. I also fully agree that there is a significant lag, which we have to take again. As I explained in my article, this government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has begun to take back the legacy that we inherited. We're doing that by prioritizing 1 billion. kr – in a combination of free resources and earmarked funds – for municipalities, among others. for that purpose. We see from the first figures, from 2015, that it has produced results: there is a significant increase in the recruitment of midwives in municipalities. I am very excited to see about – and hope that – the new development that we have made has continued in 2016. That's what we get in June. The way in which a person organises this at local level, and not least in cooperation with health businesses, will vary greatly from area to area in the country. I have very strong faith that these solutions find a best local solution. The example from Us is one good solution. The examples of Sogn and Fjordane are different, e.g. from Nordfjord, where one has an offer at the hospital in Nordfjord, while at the same time the municipality and the health company have midwife roles in common: one works a few percent in the municipality and a few percent in the health company – based on the entire position – but one can also follow the maternity women throughout the course, through pregnancy, childbirth and postpartum, which is another good local model. I think it's a good idea that a store model is best based on local circumstances. The municipalities have received more money for this purpose, and we see the money giving results. The representative Toppe should also be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1078	The representative Toppe started by saying that it's a big lag and a long lag, and you can probably agree on that. After eight years of red-green government where there was very little happening in this area, I am pleased that we now have a government where the Progress Party is involved, where nearly a billion dollars have now been spent to strengthen health care and school health services. And it's just about the health of children and young people and mothers. I very much agree that good maternity care is very important; it is important to ensure the health of both mother and child after birth. As I said, it is a pleasure to have a government that puts this on the agenda and has arranged for a grant scheme where you can apply for earmarked grants – for 2016 there was a total of 251 million. kr. There is a lot of money in a very important area where this with maternity care is part of it. I'm a little surprised at the Center Party. The centre party already controls a large number of Norwegian municipalities, and this can be sorted out, because it is about local political will and priorities. The municipalities have been given considerable increased resources, and a large number of municipalities have benefited in recent years thanks to the fact that the Right-Fremskrit party government has provided more money for the municipal sector. However, it may seem that the local authorities of the Central Party need the solution of the Progress Party; more government funding is needed in the care and care sectors and in the municipal sector. And maybe the interpellation is quite special, because when the Center Party joined the government, the demands for professionals and groups were removed into the care sector. So you can start to think a little bit about what the Center Party really means. It seems like the Center Party doesn't quite know what they want, because you're very concerned that things are going to be local, you have to have local decision, and it's local authorities that are going to decide, but if they don't do as the Center Party on the Stortinget wants, then the Center Party wants to override the municipalities and local democracy. This is a nice approach both from the Topper and from the Central Party, and it is seen in a number of proposals. And this is an interpellation that follows up on that and previous proposals from the Center Party. But I'm very happy that the government has now granted a lot of extra money just to catch up on these two areas, both school health and regular health care, which are very important, and maternity care is part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1087	A few weeks ago, SV has made a comprehensive proposal on maternity care in Norway, which is currently being treated in the United Kingdom. We did that because we believe that the quality and follow-up of pregnant women, both during pregnancy, childbirth and in pregnancy, must be reinforced – there are good reasons for this. It has also been a priority in its budgets. We have chosen to prioritise money both for care of the elderly and for better maternity care – as opposed to the Progress Party, which was just up here talking, that money has been allocated to the richest of the country – it is a choice of values that we stand for. We see that this needs to be reinforced because, as many people have said, also the Council of State, hospitals now print out those who have given birth, much faster. Sometimes that's what you want, but sometimes it's not -- especially because you kind of get a sense that that's what you have to do, but in reality, many people will need a little more follow-up before, for example. breast-feeding can get started. The proposals we have made are about both close and accessible guidance during the pregnancy period, preferably from staff who can follow you afterwards. This can, of course, be done through the health centre or through the fixed medical system and in cooperation with the midwifery service. The fact that there are stable people with good expertise who follow up on the individual has a very great value – and that you can also go on a home visit. Unfortunately, one meeting rarely allows you to find out if there are actually someone who needs help. This is a joyful but very vulnerable phase in human life, for the one who gives birth and for the child, and also for the whole family. Therefore, it is necessary to go through the manning situation in the birthplaces of the country, to have one-to-one care of the midwife, and to capture not only the purely medical aspects of a birth, but also those who may need help with other things in a start-up phase or for a little longer time. All those who print out early must have the right to help establish breast-feeding after birth. You can get it in a maternity ward, in a health hotel, or you can get it through maternity follow-up in the municipalities. But you have to make sure there are people there who can and have time for it. Then there is reason to mention the age composition of the country's midwives, the average age is getting quite high. That means that we have to recruit many people in the continuance, both in the municipalities and in hospitals. It is an employer's responsibility that lies with both the State and the municipalities. Then we have to be willing to fund it also from the Storting and the government. There are many types of follow-up you may need after a birth. There are different ways to do it – Nurse Family Partnership is one way, Home-Start is another. For example, Kongswinger has establish a family department where you can have follow-up for an entire year. I think it's very necessary for families who are struggling extra, but also for very common families who at such a stage may need both guidance, help and support. It is important that the money allocated to this is earmarked, so that they are used for what they are intended to be used for. Finally, there is a recurring question about the funding of the municipal midwife services, which leads to bias in the offer, i.e. there are too few midwives. Because while the midwives are municipally funded, the municipality will drop the bill if it's determined the pregnant women go to. It gives municipalities the wrong financial incentive when women's freedom of choice is the goal, and it seems wrong for a sensible and sustainable development for the division of labour in maternity, maternity and maternity care in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1100	Thank you to the people who took the word. I know that the Health and Care Committee has now met, or maybe a few more people would have spoken, because I know that this is a topic that involves the Health and Care Committee. To the representative, Bård Hoksrud: The right is as if the Progress Party is very satisfied with today's situation when it comes to the midwife services. I don't think the midwives out there are, and neither do those who experience a maternity offer without good follow-up. Government bets at health centres — an amount of 1 billion was spent. NOK – has led to 35 new settings, and share one in the municipalities, there are 0.08 new midwife settings. There may not be so much to shout for. The centre party has had an honest commitment to this matter. We have made suggestions to strengthen the midwife's position both in hospitals and in the municipalities. My point is that when we introduced the interaction reform, we transferred responsibility for ready-to-write patients to the municipalities from one day to the next. Then it followed the money with it. Then a health care provider took money and transferred it to the municipalities. Now the responsibility for pregnant women and newborns is transferred from health care providers – today they have responsibility for five days – to the municipalities from day two, without giving the municipalities one extra crown to take over the professional offer. I have asked what financial arrangements the government will put in place by giving money to health centres. Looking at the tariffs, I mean not to be followed up. Transferring money from health care providers is also not mentioned. With the new guidelines for maternity care that came up now, I will again call for funding. How are municipalities actually going to finance the increase in responsibility they've already got with the new occupational guidelines for maternity care? From a professional point of view, they are very good, but there is a lack of political will to finance this in order for it to function properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1109	Firstly, the Toppes report must be based on an obvious misunderstanding. Government commitment to school health services and health centres totaling about 1 billion. kr covers the entire four-year period, including 2017. The representative divided the number of increased midwifery positions from 2014 to 2015 and described it as a result of this initiative. It's directly wrong. The results of the 2016 bet, as I said in my post, will not be known until June of this year. And the results of the 2017 bet will become known in June 2018. But there is no doubt that the preliminary figures that we know indicate that the efforts that this government has made in this area have resulted in a stronger increase than has been usual in the past in terms of the growth of midwifery positions – and there is hope that that growth has also continued in 2016 and 2017. That's really what this is about, is that one is actually willing to prioritize funds for this to the municipalities and get a positive development. The government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has hosted this. I have great faith that the best thing for the municipal health and care services is that it is the municipality that has the primary responsibility to finance them. That's why I haven't moved on to proposals to do this to tariff-funded schemes. The representative proposes to move money from healthcare companies to municipalities to strengthen the midwife’s service. I would like to remind the representative of the various debates, submissions and interpellations that we have had on maternity care in the hospitals, where the representative has been very concerned and concerned that there is too much staffing in the maternity wards in the hospitals. I do not understand that the representative believes that the solution to this challenge is to move money from the maternity ward at the hospitals to the municipalities – which she here addresses. I am quite convinced that the leaders I presented in my post, the follow-up to the primary health report and the continued commitment that municipalities are able to build up good environments of competence, which include midwives, are what is needed to improve maternity care in the years to come. If it had been the case that the representative from the Progress Party and I had thought that the offer today was good enough, we would not, of course, have been on this initiative. That is precisely because we believe that the offer should be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1120	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1138	In 2015, eleven Norwegian organisations signed the appeal ‘Right to health care for the paperless!’. The appeal was sent to the Minister of Health and Welfare. Among the organisations were the Church's Bymition, the Red Cross, Amnesty International, the Doctor Without Borders, the Norwegian Folkehelp, the Norwegian Medical Association, the Norwegian Mortgage Association, the Norwegian Psychologists' Association and the Norwegian Nurses' Association. In the propeller, it says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘People without a residence permit in Norway are currently generally only entitled to immediate assistance and have to pay the actual costs of the health care they receive. [[Paperless]] This means that a group of people with very limited financial resources, who are marginalised and living in need, has very limited access to medical treatment and can be refused health care if they cannot pay. Nor do all children in Norway have full access to sound health services under current legislation. For example, paperless children do not have the right to permanent and severely limited follow-up facilities. This is contrary to the Children’s Convention that the right to health care must cover all children on a non-discriminatory basis. Children also suffer as a result of their parents being denied health care. Discrimination against the paperless in the legislation means that Norwegian health professionals are exposed to an unreasonable dilemma when they are forced to derogate from the principle of providing care and medical treatment based on needs. This violates the occupational ethics guidelines for health professionals. We encourage the government to provide paperless people living in Norway with real access to health care, based on medical assessments, professional ethics and human rights principles. Medical treatment shall be based on needs, and legislation that discriminates or excludes individual groups is incompatible with fundamental human rights on equivalency and non-discrimination.’ As far as I am aware, the Minister of Health and Health has not responded to the appeal from 2015, and I hope he can respond today. According to the ‘Requirement for the right to health and care services for persons without permanent residence in the State’, all have the right to health care that is absolutely necessary and cannot wait, necessary health care before and after birth and in connection with abortion and infectious diseases. Children also have the right to the necessary health and care services from the specialist services in the municipality. In specialist health services law § 5-3 it is called: ‘The patient who is not resident in the State shall cover the treatment and care expenses themselves. Prior to the provision of the planned specialist health service, the healthcare institution or service provider may require evidence that the patient can cover the treatment and care costs. The health institution or service provider shall ensure that the patient receives a specified bill showing the benefits received by the patient and the price calculated for the benefits. If the patient is unable to cover the costs himself, they shall be covered by the health institution or service provider concerned.’;» In 2013, the United Nations Government recommended giving people without a permanent suspension of the rich health care in line with others. There was real criticism of the situation in Norway. Paperless people have stronger dishes in many other European countries, including the United Kingdom. in Sweden. The Health Directorate wrote in the 2009 report «Migration and Health – Challenges and Developments» on paperless as a group living in constant fear and inhumane pressure, many with poor health. Psychiatric health problems are widespread. The Directorate recommended that illegal immigrants be explicitly entitled to prevent and curative health services in primary care services. «For vulnerable groups such as children, persons with disabilities, pregnant women and the elderly, the offer should be in line with that of the population elsewhere», wrote the Directorate. The Directorate considered that an information system had to be established that made paperless knowledge of their rights, with a duty to raise the issue against other authorities, and mechanisms for financing health services for paperless without funds. In a study published in December 2016 by Trine Myhrvold at the Högskulen in Oslo and Akershus, it appears that living conditions for paperless migrants are so marginal that their day-to-day existence is threatened. The study was carried out using data from 90 paperless, mental health and interview questionnaires. 57 pst. were men, most were from Mongolia, followed by Ethiopia, Afghanistan and Iran. The study does well for serious findings, which have been reproduced, among other things. in the trade journal Sykepleien and in the daily newspaper: Nearly nine out of ten had so extensive mental distress that they could need a diagnostic evaluation of mental health care. Leaving the home country because of war or persecution, economic difficulties, without a place to live, solst and experience of exploitation were closely associated with mental suffering. The informants describe a weekday that is characterized by loneliness, fear, and powerlessness. Those who work have a very long working day, they are badly paid, often not more than NOK 20–30 per hour. 40 pst. tell them that they have experienced sexual abuse, choice or harassment after coming to Norway. On 15 August 2016, I asked the Minister of Health and Health about the government will change the law and regulations to ensure that all children are entitled to a defensive birth grant, regardless of the payment option for parents. Governments responded, inter alia:‘I believe that today’s legislation ensures that all children have the right to a proper supply of food, regardless of their parents’ ability to pay.’ The Minister of Health and Health indicated that Circular 1-2/2008 on the coverage of health care expenditure in health institutions under the public specialist services, among others. for non-residents in Norway, it was to be updated, and if something was unclear, it could be clarified here. Circular 1-3/2017 on the coverage of this expenditure has not led to any changes as a result of those working on paperless issues. Under the heading Obstetrics etc. It says, among other things:\t\t You can ‘In maternity care and other cases where the status of the child’s first year of life must be taken into consideration, or in other cases where a child has not yet resided in the country for at least one year, the intention of continued residence will be decisive.’ It further states that parents' subjective intention to stop must be supported by objective conditions, and: ‘It is natural to look at employment, housing, family, etc. For parents who are not Norwegian nationals, it is necessary to refer to the residence permit, etc. [[...]] If, following a concrete assessment, the child does not fulfil the condition of residence for at least 12 months, the child will not be a compulsory member of the population as a resident.’;» [[legal]] Membership of the population is what gives full rights to health care. We know that a Norwegian hospital has refused to reconstruct the published intestine on a newborn good child with reference to this code. I took this into account in an interpellation on 3 May 2016. At that time, Germany operated. As I read it, something similar can happen again in Norway. The Church's Bymition and the Red Cross working on paperless at the health centre here in Oslo and Health Care in Bergen, tell us about a birth and maternity care and other health care that is most deficient. I know that a pregnant woman earlier this year was told by the hospital to sign a bill of debt before she was born, which meant that she did not get routine audio because she could not afford it. The health centre in Oslo told about women who are concerned about invoices that they cannot pay for abortions, others have been hospitalised and invoiced for NOK 40000 sent to the address in their home country. This creates fear and causes paperless people to refuse to seek help when they need it. The health centre in Oslo feels that it is the primary health service that is most needed, and that because of the shortage of midwifery in the municipalities, it is common for paperless people not to have an hour before birth. My question is, what is the basis for not providing health care that this group needs? Will the government take action to improve funding and access to health care for people without a permanent upsurge in the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1188	All residents of Norway are entitled to immediate assistance from the municipal health and care services and from specialist health services. Both human rights and a purely human consideration speak for giving an offer that goes beyond immediate help. All those in Norway are therefore entitled to health care which is absolutely necessary and cannot be expected. This includes, inter alia: situations in which the patient’s condition is such that it is most likely that in a short time there will be a need for immediate help. Children and pregnant women have the same right to health care, regardless of whether the stay is lawful or not. It is in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which requires that the best interests of the child should be a fundamental consideration in the design of the service provision. Persons who are mentally unstable and present a nearby and serious risk to their own or others’ lives or health are entitled to mental health protection, even when they are illegally present in Norway. In addition, all residents of Norway are entitled to abortions, according to the rule of the abortion law, and to infectious diseases, under the infectious diseases law. A separate regulation regulates the right to health and care services for persons without permanent residence in the country. It collects and clarifies the legislation. Patients may complain to the State if he or she considers the provision of the regulation to be breached. Norway, like other countries, has legislation that distinguishes between those who have legal residence and those who do not. I think that's right. Providing people without a legal stay in Norway with the same right to health care as legal residents could lead to increased visits to Norway for free treatment, and this would be unfortunate. Persons without permanent residence in Norway are, as a general rule, required to pay for health care. However, there is no possibility of requiring pre-payment for immediate help and for health care that cannot be expected. So you'll get the health services you're entitled to. I do not see the need to propose extensions to the rights of persons without permanent residence in Norway to healthcare services. I believe that we provide a good health offer to people without a permanent stay in the kingdom. I am familiar with the opinions of the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of 2013. It is true that we have different rules for people with and without permanent residence in Norway, but they are the result of factual discrimination, based on the patient’s relationship with Norway. I assume that the Norwegian legislation does not violate human rights or our international obligations in this area. I trust that the healthcare system will ensure that people without a permanent stay in Norway get the healthcare they require.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1199	Thanks for the answer from the Council of State, a rather clear response that the government will not make any further assessments on this matter regarding the health provision of those who behave in Norway without legal delay, despite the fact that many have turned to us that Norway's practice is not in line with human rights and international practice. I'm disappointed in that. In the previous period, there was also a criticism of the practice that was in Norway, and that was when we extended the scope not only to include emergency aid but also health care that cannot be expected. Then I know that it has been perceived as a restriction out there in the services, contrary to what we thought it was. I think this area is something one should discuss continuously on Stortinget, because that's what we're actually obliged to do. I know definitely that they take people outside, without payment, and they do it because they feel they have to. The system does not suggest that health professionals can help those who need help and, of course, do not have the money to pay for the health services themselves. Then we have had more examples in the media – especially in the case of pregnant women, and in the case of childbirth – that they get the bill for cesarean sections in the post office. This must also be a general rule, and then you can prove in retrospect that you don't have the money to pay the bill. It also applies to another serious illness. I know that Norway has not been able to treat young children because the suspension solution was uncertain, while other countries took responsibility and did so without asking more about it. Such a practice did not actually seem to me to be worth Norway. With the good, developed health service we have, I think we should look at how this offer works. So I want to challenge the Council of State, and he himself mentions it in his article: Can the Council of State and Government be sure that today's practice is not contrary to human rights, and will the Council of State go into that issue more closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1210	As I said in my post, I assume that the legislation and practice we have in Norway is within human rights. That's how we give health care to and have enhanced rights for children, and we have rights for what can't wait, what's immediate help. Payment-related schemes take account of the individual’s ability to pay. I think it would be wrong to say that one in Norway, with our healthcare service, should have the same health care for people who are illegally in the kingdom and have not followed up on, for example, instructions. leaving Norway, which contributes to society and has rights through its status to people living here. I think such an approach is wrong. It is also true that comparisons with other countries are often quite simplified, because one often does not take into account that other countries have completely different health systems than those we have in Norway. The fact that health professionals who operate their own practices extend longer and offer an offer beyond what the rules require, I have nothing against. It's part of it to set up for others, as we see happening in many areas of society. But in terms of what's going to be the public part of healthcare – what's regulated by rules – that we're going to finance, I think today's level is meeting well. And I believe in principle that there should be a difference in the offer we give to those who are legally in the kingdom, and to those who are illegally in the kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1219	Let me first thank the representative Toppe for raising this important interpelation. There may be different reasons why people stay without a legal basis in Norway. There may be people who have received a visa or residence permit on a false basis, people who have expired a visa or residence permit, former asylum seekers who have received a final rejection of their applications, and there may be people who have come to the country and never registered with the authorities. It is assumed that former asylum seekers are the largest group of paperless applicants. Trafficking in human beings is also part of this group. The common feature of paperless people is that they are a very vulnerable group in terms of exploitation by both employers, smugglers and backers. Paperless migrants may be subjected to violence and exploitation, but will reluctantly address the authorities, in fear of being discovered and arrested. Today, in accordance with the regulation on the right to health and care services for people without permanent residence in the 2012 Reich, adults are only entitled to immediate help or health care that cannot be expected. All pregnant women living in the kingdom are entitled to the necessary health care before and after birth, including maternity and maternity care, but since they are not part of the public health system, they themselves have to pay for health care. It goes without saying that for a paperless migrant, it is almost impossible to pay the cost of health care. This fact, in addition to the fear of being discovered and reported to the police, means that many people cannot or dare to seek help, with the consequences they have for their own health, but also for public health. In addition, what is considered to be acute is currently practised differently from a doctor to a doctor, and it can therefore be accidental who is being helped through the primary healthcare system. The Minister of Health says that it is not always relevant to compare with other countries because health services are a little different from those organised, but you should not go further than to Sweden, where access to health care is now extended regardless of needs, where paperless health services are offered in line with asylum seekers. You don't have to go further than to Sweden. So different, the health care system is not organized in Sweden and Norway that there is nothing we could have assessed. The right to health is a human right, according to the 1948 Declaration of Human Rights. On the basis of this, the Christian People's Party has promoted a proposal for a representative now under consideration. I hope that the Christian People's Party will have a majority for the three proposals we have made. At least we challenge the parties on the Stortinget to take a closer look at this, both from a public health point of view and not least from a human-world point of view. These are people, in line with you and me. The value shall not be graduated according to the health situation. The three proposals we have put forward for the Storting House are that we ask the government to ensure that there is an explicit right to prevent and curative health services in primary health services, including the right to be on the list of permanent workers. The second thing we are proposing is that the government should ensure that the offer of vulnerable groups of paperless migrants, such as children, persons with disabilities, pregnant women and the elderly, is in line with the offer made to the general public, and, not least, we propose that the Storting ask the government to draw up schemes for the financing of health services for unfettered paperless people. A fund has been set up in the Netherlands. If you are unable to pay for health services yourself, you have the opportunity to pay health services through this fund. There are many possibilities, and I really hope that the proposals of the Christian People's Party can be evaluated, and that we can have a majority for some of these proposals. But again – thank you to the representative Toppe for raising this important interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1236	SV agrees with the proposals made by the Christian People's Party in this proposal for a representative, and believes it is high time that we discussed this more widely than we have now. No human beings are illegal. I think it's important to remember that. Not everyone is legally resident in Norway, but the people like them are just as inviolable, and they are not illegal. Now the LO Congress is going on, and there they are again discussing what we are talking about today, namely the need for health care for people who are paperless and not legally allowed to stay in Norway, but also the conditions and implications of Norwegian working life, where we know that many are being exploited in the most serious way. This concerns how we view people who are in a very vulnerable position and that we have solidarity with them because they are people in a vulnerable position. There are very many of those who are in Norway and are paperless, who are in a completely impossible limbo. That's different, of course. Some are here and could travel somewhere else where they could be safe, but many are here because they're in a completely impossible situation: they don't have any places to take care of, just because they're paperless, and no one will accept them. I have tried to think through what it would be like to be in such a situation. I've come to the conclusion that it's almost not going to last to think about once, and that what we should at least contribute to is better health care than what they get today. Today, without the centres run by non-governmental organisations, such as the Church's Bymition and the Norway's Red Cross, this would have been very disastrous. There is also reason to wonder how these people are met when they seek help in the healthcare system, even when they have the right to do so, because there are many who are initially afraid to ask for help and wait very long, because they fear that they might then be sent out, or that they will be warned about them to the foreign authorities. It's a fear that I think can help us get a weakened general health situation in Norway, precisely because people who should have been helped by the health care system don't get it. In any case, SV believes that it is wrong to withdraw the border control into Norwegian hospitals. You can wonder if that's what's happened when, in the preparatory work of today's guidelines, they say, doctors and health professionals shall try to find out when to leave the country and that they should be included in the assessment of entitlement to health care. This means that we have mixed immigration regulatory measures and these types of assessments into the healthcare system. It violates some of the basic principles such as: is enshrined in the Declaration of Human Rights, and I believe it also violates some of the values that Norway should stand up for and develop further. Therefore, the Medical Association and several organisations mentioned by the interpellant have launched a call to improve health care for the undocumented. It is because they see that Norwegian health professionals are also being subjected to unfair dilemmas and are being pressured into their professional ethics due to current legislation. I wish the world were easier to deal with than it is. It's very easy to point to right and wrong when you're born in Norway after the war, where most of it's in care, and where you know you can get help in health care if you need it. But this is neither the world nor the life of very many. It's completely different, much less predictable and not easy to figure out, for example. is paperless and has not legally stayed anywhere in the world. Then we should be able to offer these people better health care than they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1251	Thank you to the people who have taken the word. To the Christian People's Party: we have noted the proposal for a representative, so at least we will get this debate up again in the Stortinge even through a committee reading. I think that's very good, because I think this case and the problem are on fire. For me, it's unthinkable when you first give people without legal suspension in the realm a right to emergency help and a right to health care that can't be expected, that at the same time you say that you have to pay this to the full yourself. Then it has a small value for those who are involved. It is clear that we can create a framework for the extent of healthcare to be provided, but the right to emergency assistance must be universal, and if a nectar to provide such assistance, it will at least break the professional ethics guidelines that apply to all health professionals. That the state should go out and say that this is the health professionals’ problem, when the Council of State can stand here and say that it is great if fixed people take in and treat undocumented children, for example. – that it’s not the state’s problem, but it’s great with the firmaments who do it and do it at leisure, and like that – and that’s what the health offer is for the paperless in Norway, I don’t think I’m good enough. In fact, there are a lot of health professionals around the country who get these into their office every day. There are many voluntary offerings, at least in the big cities, where one does this – they are not funded by us, but they provide a great deal of value. I didn't think we, as health authorities, could ignore this situation because of a single reason, that there must be a difference between us and those that are paperless. It's like the representative from SV said: there is no human being who is illegal. The United Nations has come to Norway about the practice we have today, and it's also about everyone having their basic human rights. Health is a central value in it. I will not mention any more in this interpolation. We will return to this in Stortinget at the time of the discussion of the named representative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1266	Firstly, I would like to stress that I believe it is wrong when several of the representatives here almost create the impression that people who are illegally staying in Norway are not receiving health care. That's not right. As I said my post, both human rights and human considerations speak to give an offer that also goes beyond immediate help. As a result, health care is also provided that cannot wait. It is quite right that the general rule is that one should pay for that help himself, simply because one does not have the social rights that result in legal residence in Norway. However, one cannot ask for a prepayment in the Norwegian healthcare system. This means that in the case of both immediate help and unwaitable health care, a few help will be provided. Then, of course, it will be the individual's situation that determines whether you are able to pay or not. What I feel is that more people in their posts here are calling for is that Norway should give people who are staying illegally in Norway, for whatever reason, the right to health care covered by the public sector in addition to this. I disagree. I think that is wrong, simply because in this area there must also be a distinction between those who are legally present in Norway and those who are illegally present. The term ‘paperless’ is used consistently, even though it is a concept that is very limited in scope for the situation. As you are aware, this is very much about people who have applied for asylum in Norway, have their case assessed within our legal system, within the system and the rules that have been dealt with and have been rejected. There is no shortage of documents describing this group – on the contrary, there are quite a number of piles of papers where their case has been assessed, but where they have received a rejection, and a rejection within our legal community has a consequence. One of the consequences is that one has to deal with the rejection, and the other does not have the same rights as those who receive asylum or have their case for treatment. I think that's a proper distinction. But we do not reject people who need immediate help or need health care that cannot wait, in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1277	That is when the debate is on case No. Six over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1295	Earth's climate is changing. Because of higher emissions of greenhouse gases, the temperature changes, and therefore our weather systems too. So far, we've just seen the taste, but what the scientists are telling us is that we're going to go to a future where the weather is going to get lost. It gets wetter, and it gets warmer. This has consequences, and it costs money. Steps, floods and other natural disasters can lead to enormous damage to man and enormous damage to material values. We have had several cases in our own country in the last few years where extreme weather and natural events have led to very large expenditures for both public and insurance companies and for individuals. Of course, our most important job as politicians is to prevent such development. We have to change our energy production, we have to replace our vehicles, we have to slow down the extraction of fossil resources and carry out a green shift, both nationally and internationally. But even if we succeed in that – and we hope that we do – the climate will continue to change. So what we're talking about is holding on to the 2 degree goal. But even with two degrees of heating, there will be consequences. For this reason, it is important that we not only succeed in the policy against climate change in the future, but that we also congratulate ourselves on climate change management. My interpellation today is actually very concrete and is about local construction processes. But I thought I'd hire a little bit by lifting my eyes this way and measuring the big picture, because in climate policy it's really so that everything is related to everything. Major global changes in our weather systems have major local consequences for very common people. When we see the danger of dangerous fleas getting bigger, and the same is true of the danger of race, it presents challenges in terms of, among other things, construction processes. In March last year, municipalities were even more demanding to make sure that everything was all right before they gave a clear signal to construction. Base conditions and any racial hazard shall be mapped. It is the so-called NVE alert card that should be used. It's basically a good thing. The problem is that the work on the map is slow, and that many so-called attention areas are not included in municipal regulation plans, or that current plans do not take the height of the tightening requirements that are now imposed on the municipalities. As of today, NVE has surveyed flood zones in a total of 135 municipalities and mercury zones in a total of 85 municipalities. There are further identified danger zones for walking in steep terrain in selected areas in 35 municipalities. The NVE has begun to produce detailed racial and flood zone maps, but can only reach more than 10 municipalities per year, according to the NRK. In my home country, Sogn and Fjordane, there are 41 different areas to be surveyed, but only 19 of them have received first priority. For those who live or want to live in the 22 other areas, it means, in practice, building stops in the overcrowded future. That would mean unless you yourself take the cost of such a screening, but it's not cheap. In February, NRK Sogn and Fjordane told of Tonje Camilla Løfsnes Sjaastad, who have found a beautiful plot just at the Nordfjordeid center, but because the plot she loves is not located in an area that was prioritised by the NVE, she has to leave with over $80,000 of her own pocket to get her father mapped in the area. If she had chosen to bus in a municipality that has priority from the NVE, she would have saved far more money than any government can promise her in tax laws. The new and more stringent practice combined with the lack of resources at the NVE simply puts up great economic differences among those who are going to build houses in this country, depending on whether the municipality they live in has been given priority, or whether he has not received it. In most cases, there will be no real danger, fortunately. However, even a simple step-by-step assessment can cost between 70 000 and 100 000 kroner. A larger ground investigation, if necessary, may take several hundred thousand kroner. In this way, of course, private individuals will have to count on the buttons and see if it is economically feasible to start the construction project. This is not good for those of us who are concerned that people who want to bus in the districts should have the opportunity to do so, and municipalities with large areas of potential migration and flooding are often district municipalities. Besides, I've understood it so that the NVE in its surveys will give priority to the people's region. You might understand that, but at the same time, it's going to reinforce the district dimension of this problem. At a time when representatives of certain names are going to be extraordinary, they stand on this pulpit and say that the most important thing for optimism in the districts is some ear cheaper gasoline, or to eradicate truant animal species, or to have at least one counsellor on quarter, yes, I actually believe that it is far more important for people to build a house in their hometown without having to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on a geological survey. Getting a place to live is actually, in my view, quite underestimated as a challenge in terms of strengthening the settlement in the districts. It might be a little bit counterintuitive. Many people think that in the districts there is a good place. There one gets as big a house as one wants for a lick and nothing, and one can bow there one will. But the truth is that many places are quite different. Many district municipalities are too poor to regulate for new Bustadtomter. There are often few vacant dwellings on the market, and usually there is an underdeveloped or on-site rental market and very few, if any, apartments available. That is why it is important to speed up building and vary building construction as an important part of district policy. Many municipalities recognise this problem, and many people want to be on the offensive. But then, of course, it's very confusing that one doesn't have the ability to drive empty development and housing regulation because one has to wait many, many years for the NVE to get through the list of areas of interest to be surveyed. My colleague, the representative André Skjelstad, challenges the Council of State on this earlier this year through Document 15:634. In its answer to the written question, the Council of State decided: ‘Getting our long-distance country, with a great deal of nature and widespread population, there will be buildings and settlements which, within such a framework, cannot be prioritised for detailed surveying.’ My question today is whether the council believes that there is a good enough response to all those who want to establish themselves in district municipalities, but cannot afford to pay for their own surveys.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1332	Let me start a little bit overall initially. The government is concerned with the security of our citizens. We're taking it most seriously, and we've experienced several times in recent years what kind of challenges flood and escape can bring to those who are being affected. That is why I am very pleased that, since the government joined, we – in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party – have strengthened the flood and scoring appropriations considerably. For 2017 it is set at 365 million. kr for this work, and in the RNB now next Thursday there will also be funds to follow up the challenging situation of Svalbard. Many of the measures to which the Stortinget has allocated funds are in district municipalities. For example, during 2014, 2015 and 2016, the state mentioned here, Sogn and Fjordane, has been working for a total of 111 672 000 kroner, which is the second most of all counties in the country, after Uppland. The measures taken help to ensure life and health for ordinary people, while creating activity and employment in the districts. It is important to distinguish between the identification of new developments and the identification of hazards and the risk associated with existing developed areas as regards the identification of flood hazards and the identification of hazards. All new development requires, as the interpellant was involved, an investigation of sufficient safety against floods and hazards. It is regulated by the Planning and Building Act and by the Building Regulation, and it is the responsibility and duty of the action holder to ascertain and ensure adequate safety against natural hazards in the event of re-development. In slightly larger plans, municipalities and builders will have to address both the step-by-step and flood risks associated with the municipal level, the regulatory plan and at the construction level. We have our own hierarchy attached to the Law on Planning and Building. Norway’s Watercourse and Energy Directorate, NVE, in its work on nationwide hazard mapping, does not focus on new areas initially. Their focus is linked to areas that are already developed. The State, by NVE, provides assistance for hazard mapping in these built-up areas, and the NVE hazard mapping is based on areas where existing settlements may be exposed, based on the natural conditions in the area. State aid for monitoring is not regulated but governed by the framework set up by the Storting at all times by annual allocations to the State budget. The work of state-owned monitoring does not exempt the municipalities from the responsibility for monitoring under the Planning and Building Act or the Civil Protection Act. It also does not exempt builders from the responsibility they have to investigate any danger before new development. The NVE’s commitment to monitoring has been more than doubled in the period since 2013 and amounts to 70 million. kr in 2017. As of February 2017, NVE, on which the interpellant was involved, has mapped floods in 135 municipalities and mercury deposits in 85 municipalities. Looking into 2017 and including the work done this year, you will have reached 50 municipalities during this year in terms of identifying the risk of moving into steep terrain. This type of mapping involves the risk of both snow, sour, stone, soil and flooding. The 41 specific areas to which the representative Rotevatn refers, to be identified in the Sogne and Fjordane in the long term, are part of the national priority list of the NVE in the Smart Mapping Plan. The 19 priority areas 1 and the 22 priority areas 2 are identified by municipality. In identifying and prioritising the area, attention has been paid to where people live and live in potentially remote areas. Based on the materials available, the country-wide most objective assessment has been carried out for each step. The impact of expected climate change has also been assessed in relation to priority areas. As the interpellant had in mind, the risk of more concentrated rainfall increases, both the risk of flooding in flooded areas and the risk of slipping into culvert areas. Detailed mapping is resource-needing. We have a long country. Given the high societal importance of such monitoring, it is reasonable for the State to assist municipalities – therefore this national risk-monitoring plan. Societal economic evaluations must underpin both the choice of methodology, the emphasis between different types of flood and step, and the prioritisation between geographical areas. It ensures that, within the limits of the size set aside at all times for this type of mapping, we get as much back for the resources that are allocated. I perceive that these are principles to which the Storting has joined. Finally, I would also like to remind you that the government has started working on a nationwide, lucky data set based on laser data. Such data are important as a planning and analysis basis for a range of tasks and departments. For the NVE, such data contribute to a more efficient use of the resources used to prevent the risk of flooding and scrapping. The NVE has stated that the establishment of a new national elevation model could also affect the timing and order of the priority areas also in Sogn and Fjordane. It would make sense to map the area with the coverage of detailed altitude data first because then you get more for the funds at all times. I am fully aware of the challenge of areas not prioritised in the first phase, where one will be able to face situations with concrete, individual building applications or smaller regulatory plans, where the municipality has not previously identified the risk on its own initiative. Today, it is primarily the responsibility of the action holder to cover this cost, possibly because – as I know it is done in a number of municipalities – a type of split-layer between the builder/builder and the municipality is included in order to possibly map a larger area when it is nevertheless appropriate to map a concrete plot or a small plot area. I believe that this is good and practical solutions that need to be worked on further, and that it is up to the local policy environment to take the initiative to achieve exactly what the interpellant was about: to ensure that we get enough space for development in the districts, not least in smaller municipalities. It is important to be able to accommodate young people who want to establish themselves and bet in these municipalities. It is important for the possibility of building up new industries and activities also in the smallest municipalities. The issue is well known, but from the government's side, we relate to the annual appropriations given by Stortinget. So there's double the risk-monitoring funds over this government period, and they're now at 70 million. kr. It will necessarily take some time before the NVE has been able to work through all the areas to be prioritised across the country, and that is when I urge that initiatives be taken at local policy level also to be with individual action-holders on single construction and smaller regulatory plans and to help get good groundwork locally to strengthen overall monitoring efforts, thus ensuring the best possible response to the challenges of flooding and migration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1357	The party of progress has a long history of fighting for it to be easy to build on and build out, it be garage or other, and in that way I thought the answer to the written question that the Council of State gave in its time was a little passive. I thought it was better tacks now and would like to thank you for the answer from the Council of State. That's what they say, that you've increased the permissions a lot – double always sounds a lot – but you're going to go from 30 million. NOK 70 million. kr. But I take with me the positive signals that are given about RNB, which is immediately submitted, and not least that there may be a need for more means in the future. One thing is money, but one needs people too. Something else I think we need to bet a lot on in the future is just to train enough people who can take these work with monitoring, with climate management. I know that last year we started a first master's study in Norway in the field of climate change management, on the Hojskulen in the West, which has far higher searches than the number of places of study to which money has been allowed so far. Now it's not this council table, but I think it's worth mentioning in the context as well. I understand that it costs money to run the survey, and it is Stortinget as permissions. But I also think that what we're talking about now is a task that goes so deep into very many people's lives, and that people perceive as untimely, both the municipalities and people themselves. And it's important that you have safe and good framework conditions to stick to as a builder. At the current monitoring rate, at least I estimate that it can take 20–25 years for all municipalities in this country to have the necessary monitoring so that people can expand without excessive personal outlays. In my own municipality, Eid Municipality, the municipality has been informed by NVE that it will take many years. But there is another possible estimate from the State Council. At least it would be interesting to right when the Council of State would estimate that we have reached the municipalities of this country, so that everyone has received a necessary attention from the NVE – given the pace of the day. Would we have to put on a lot of these fissile layers, as I call it, forward, or could the tempo be a little bit higher? To take an example from my municipality with the 22 priority areas No. 2: When will they expect this to be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1364	First I want to say that when the interpellant picks up competence as a point here, I totally agree. We should be aware that this focus, in the light of climate change, on the need for monitoring related to the risk of migration and floods, is a relatively new focus. It has always been there, but it has been greatly reinforced lately, and there have been new demands in the Law on Planning and Building that make it necessary to do a more thorough job here. And the most important work we do on this is precisely prevention by not risking building in areas that later turn out to be flooded or scraped. It's a bad policy for the people. We should help, from the public point of view, to build in areas that are well-secured and are not at risk of experiencing the type of crisis that arises from large and severe flood or emergency situations. You can never fully guard yourself, and then the situation is that in parts of the country, areas that now turn out to be more flood- and gliding, and that is the main focus of Norway's watercourse and energy directorates now. But the competence needs to be built up. I visited on Friday's NVE, and their main focus is now to help build good environments of expertise at architects' offices, planning consultants who assist private in the planning processes, which allow for the best possible assessments, and also that the cost can gradually decrease, because now this is actually a requested service there is too little capacity out in the municipalities. With regard to the estimate of when one may be finished through the apparatus provided by the NVE, the assistance provided by the NVE to the municipalities, it is impossible to give today, because it will depend on the annual appropriations provided by the Stortinget for risk-monitoring purposes. It will also, of course, depend on the environments of competence and how this develops. I think we'll see more eventually that private individuals will be able to enter and provide these services to the municipalities, so that municipalities can provide this work on their own initiative to ensure that they have the opportunity at any time to deploy new development areas or continue existing areas and clarify where to build and not, because it is important for local community development at any time to be able to provide the current development area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1373	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important theme, for racial and flood hazards are part of the lives of many people in this country. Perhaps especially in the West, this is a constant danger many must carry with them in everyday life, and for many years we have seen the consequences of race and flood for communities and individuals. It's not always easy to eliminate this risk, but screening allows us to manage the risk. For many communities in the District of Norway, it is absolutely necessary to set up such a survey, which will enable them to build and live safely. It's about where we live and where we live. It's about where we build our houses. The lawn at Hatlestad terrace outside Bergen in 2005 shows how wrong it can be if we do not have control of the hazards that exist when houses are built. The same thing happened in 2008 in the Mountain Road in my dear hometown, Ålesund. Ras brought with him a new housing block, the consequences were fatal, and people died. In retrospect, there was a debate as to whether the race hazard was adequately mapped before the housing was built. In the years to come, more rainfall and extreme weather are expected due to climate change. This will make it more dangerous to live in more areas and make new demands when building a new one. This will therefore be an important debate – whether it is the public that will take these costs and have them monitored in the areas that are exposed or whether it is the home builders themselves who will have to handle these studies and the costs that follow. In many areas of District Norway, the challenges will be great, as in Sogn and Fjordane, which we are now discussing, but also in my own home country, Moor and Romesdal, and in Hordaland. The last time I visited Sogn and Fjordane, I discovered that those who drove the car were sitting completely on the edge of the seat in order to keep an overview of the mountain side above to see if there was a race. This says something about the raspberry and the insecurity it creates, and that this is a state that has a significant raspberry risk. Then it is important to be able to build and live safely. If we are to leave the costs of such surveys to private developers, it could make it even more difficult for people who want to build and live in areas where they have grown up and have their roots. The choice between waiting for screening or paying it yourself will often end with choosing to establish yourself elsewhere. If we want to use the whole country, it is important that we facilitate this, and that people can establish themselves throughout the country. I think this is too big and too important a question for us to leave to those who build, to pay the bill, and that this is a cost that the community has to take. It's about life, it's about health and people's security, and then the community has to stand up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1386	I get to thank you for the debate, even though he wasn't that long. But that's actually a little bit interesting in itself, because in this room we tend to focus a lot on the big symbolic things, while those that really mean a lot may not always be the same attention around. It's e.g. Interestingly, the party that profile itself as a district party does not participate in such a debate. I think that if a family gets an extra cost of $100,000 when they're building their house, it means far more to district policy in this country than if the gas price goes up or down 5 cents, or if we're happy to wipe out one of our predators or not — enough about it. In any case, I would like to thank the representative of the Christian People's Party for a very good article. It was a good reminder from Andersen Eide about some of the terrible accidents we've had, the great human consequences they have, and the way in which past mistakes show the need for a mapping and making wise choices in the future. For my part, I can at least say that I am going to do it so that the Council of State would get even more money from Stortinget to get speed on this work, because I think that is important. Finally, I would like to say that the party to the Council of State often attaches great importance to the cost of climate action, and that it must not be a burden on ordinary people and businesses with costly burdens and taxes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Of course, it is right that environmental policy can cost money. I hope that the Council of State also realizes that it costs money to clean up after poor environmental policies, and that this matter may tend to be an illustration that when the climate changes, and the weather with it, it creates great uncertainty – insecurity for pace, flooding, mercury, yes houses and homes. It costs money, too. It costs money to identify the risk of natural accidents, whether private or state, that will take the cost. The more uncertain it is about a future development, the harder it becomes to map, and the more money it costs. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State in the future will both push for the NVE's mapping processes to be carried out at an even greater pace, and that he will have this in mind when we discuss further how important it is that we use as much fossil resources as possible at the highest possible rate, and how expensive it is for society rather to initiate effective climate action than other things. The costs of climate change on earth are great, not only for nature that surrounds us, but also for humans – for those who are going to build houses, and for those who are going to protect us against natural disasters. In this way, one might say – as the Minister of Health is here – that climate policy is a bit like health policy: it costs a lot of money to run prevention, but it is also quite expensive to stay away from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1397	First of all, on the global climate challenge: this challenge must also be solved globally, and it is a much larger debate that we will have to come back to on another occasion. But I want to comment a little bit on what has been said here, also from the Christian People's Party representative. From my point of view, there is every reason to consider at all times: how much of a cost related to development should be borne by the action holder/builder, and what should the public take? There is no doubt that the Planning and Building Act has a number of areas that are currently involved and contribute to a higher cost of housing and industrial projects outside the municipalities. Scratch and flood mapping is one theme. Let me just mention briefly also other basic studies, registration by nature diversity law, registration of cultural memories, etc. These are all contributions to high costs for some development projects. In the same breath, I would like to stress that the government has come to Stortinget for several rounds with good suggestions – and has joined many of them – to make simplifications in the Planning and Building Act, and not least in technical regulations, so that costs for new buildings could be reduced, both on the housing side and on the business side, and especially on the housing side. This is a balance, but it's a discussion that you have to have at any time: how much can you expect a builder/measurer to take? And how many of the requirements of the authorities for monitoring is it reasonable for the authorities themselves to provide funding for? I want to end this interpellation round with that it's a very good theme, I'm going to follow up and push on the NVE. Then I look forward to the help of the representative Rotevatn and others to push Stortinget towards giving more money to flood and scrap security and mapping. It should not be against me, because it is absolutely crucial that the representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, was involved: we should be able to build and live safely in this country. Security is a crucial factor, whether you live in town or in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1408	The debate on substance is closed. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1426	The loss of life is a major social problem and a great pain for the survivors. According to the Action Plan on Suicide Prevention and Suicide In 2014–2017, every year more than 500 people die of suicide in Norway. 70 pst. of these are men. Between 3,500 and 7,500 people try to take their own lives every year. There is a need to strengthen the suicide prevention work in Norway. On behalf of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Directorate of Health, in cooperation with user organisations, professional associations, the field of practice, the environment of competence and other Directorates, developed an action plan to prevent suicide and self-harm in the period 2014–2017. At that time, there had been no national plan for suicide prevention since 2002. The overriding aim of this is to reduce the extent of suicide and self-harm in the population. It should take place through good mental health and population mastering, reducing the incidence of suicide and self-harm in risk groups, good follow-up and care of the survivors, relatives and others who have happened, a knowledge-based service provider and knowledge-based measures and strategies. The plan points to new measures and continues work. 29 measures should strengthen efforts to prevent suicide and self-harm and increase the knowledge base and competence of service providers. Implementation of the plan provided for funds to be provided in the annual budgets. The plan should be expanded with new measures during the planning period. The question is how this action plan has been followed up. In addition, we have the National overdose strategy 2014–2017, which is called ‘Yes, you can become drug-free — but first you have to survive’. He aims to improve the follow-up to nonfatal overdoses, improve the assessment of suicide risk and suicide prevention measures in overdose-related situations, and improve the provision of assistance to relatives and related persons in need of assistance following overdose deaths. There is an increased risk of suicide and self-harm in some groups of the population. In Norway, suicide rates are high among older men, but not among older women. About one in 10 15-17-year-olds in Norway reports that they have attempted suicide or hurt themselves one or more times. Higher incidences of suicidal ideation and attempted suicide have been observed among homophiles, lesbians and biphiles. Patients entering daily treatment for mental health protection have an increased risk of suicide. Incarceration in prison has almost eight times higher rates of suicide than population or else. The risk is particularly high during the maintenance period. Many inmates have mental problems, such as personality disorder, drug problems and crisis reactions. Several international students have shown that there is a high rate of suicide among gangs. There is a moderate increase in the risk of suicide among Norwegian UN and NATO veterans compared to other Norwegian men. However, the presence of protective factors may reduce the vulnerability of a person to risk factors. Suicide prevention involves both reducing risks and promoting protective factors at individual and community level. Structures and measures that help prevent people from falling out of school and working life are among the most important measures to ensure good health and good distribution of health from a generation perspective. Strengthening community psychologists, schooling services, targeted responses to schooling and work dropout, the implementation of counsellors in local mental health and drug treatment are measures that can contribute to this. Early identification of persons with self-injury and suicide behaviour is decisive to ensure timely adequate follow-up and treatment at the appropriate level of service. Identifying vulnerable groups with a high risk of suicide or self-harm is important in order to have measures that reduce these risk factors or the actual occurrence of suicide. Good follow-up and care of the survivors, relatives and others who are affected is also an objective of the action plan. Relatives need to be given good information, the ability to ask questions, care and support. Good competence in the prevention of suicide and self-harm among service providers is a prerequisite for a good supply. Services must be available and equivalent. According to the Action Plan, efforts to systematise and disseminate research-based and experience-based knowledge on suicide and self-harm should be continued and strengthened. So the action plan is very good, he is concrete, he is measurable, and he should have our implemented and had effect. A SINTEF report now shows that the majority of Norwegian municipalities, despite the action plan, do not have procedures for following up people after attempted suicide or overdose. About four out of ten municipalities reported that there are routines in place for the hospital to notify the municipality when patients are discharged after they have been admitted for attempted suicide or suspected of doing so. And only four out of ten municipalities respond that they have established internal procedures in the municipality for follow-up after attempted suicide. According to the report, only two out of 10 municipalities report having established procedures for follow-up to overdose. Of course, it is very serious that less than half of the municipalities in the country have established follow-up procedures and that even fewer municipalities have established procedures for follow-up after overdose. There are geographical differences, and in large municipalities, routines are generally more in place than in small municipalities. The municipalities in the health care centre of Østfold and in the West Viken area usually have the procedures for warning from the specialist services of the municipalities in place. The report also reveals a major lack of an important area. It is particularly serious that these patient groups do not receive follow-up when they are printed. We know that the risk of a new experiment is great. When these patients leave the hospital doors, or when the prison doors go out, there's a real need, follow-up from the municipalities. That there are no routines for this is unacceptable. It is almost incomprehensible that it occurs at the brink of an escalation period, when the action plan has worked against it for almost four years. Follow-up to patients who have attempted suicide is a municipal responsibility. But it has to happen in collaboration with the specialist services. I think hospitals shouldn't print patients with such challenges until they're guaranteed to have a follow-up from the community health service, and that there are routines in place for this. I believe that the services are largely competent. The main challenge is that patients somehow disappear in the system. It takes better cooperation to capture and view patients at risk. My questions in the interview are: What will the government do to ensure that such procedures are established in all health care establishments, so that all those who need them are followed up in the municipalities? What has the government done, and what will the government do to follow up all the good actions contained in this action plan, to which I have referred? Does the government plan to bring a new action plan against this when the current one expires in 2017? Does the Council of State think that we are aiming at the suicide prevention work in Norway, or will the government look at new concrete measures to improve the follow-up to this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1472	The Top interpellant addresses an important theme. Suicide and attempted suicide are severe and brutal, both for those who see this as a way out, for family and friends who are left, and for those who work in health care. The government's aim is to reduce the level of self-injury, suicide attempts and suicides. Preventing suicide in the population is a complex task. We need to work in general on mental health and specifically on suicide prevention. The prevention of suicide and self-harm is an important part of our public health work. Kindergartens, schools and workplaces shall be health-promoting arenas to prevent mental distress and improve quality of life and mastery. These are areas that are part of government work to include mental health as an equivalent part of public health work. Children and young people are a priority target group in the Programme for Public Health Work in the municipalities, which we have set in motion in cooperation with the KS and the Health Directorate. The Programme shall develop and evaluate tools and actions that can be used by municipalities to promote the mental health of the population. Psychiatric health and intoxication have been a field of activity from the first day of government. Good prevention of mental health, good and accessible lowthreshold services and increased competence in services shall contribute to the prevention of suicide. The action plan for the prevention of suicide and self-harm 2014–2017 is the plan of the Health Directorate. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has ongoing dialogue with the Directorate of the Plan. The grant scheme National measures for the prevention of suicide and self-harm have been amended to include measures that are national in nature and fall within the objectives of the action plan. The Ministry has increased the subsidy scheme by 5 million. kr during the planning period. At present, all measures are either implemented or in the course of implementation. The last suicide rates in Norway are from 2015. Then there was some rise in the number of suicides – to 590. I launched the Action Plan in spring 2014. In the course of the process, we have gradually taken action. That means we can't assess the effect of the plan yet. Hospitals have a special responsibility for ensuring that persons who have been treated for suicide risk or overdose are given a safe and good transition to further follow-up in the health care of municipalities. In the light of the report from SINTEF and questions for written answers from the representative Toppe, the Ministry of Health asked the Health Regions to explain the procedures established in relation to patients who have been admitted to the specialist healthcare system as a result of attempted suicide. Health South-East has reported that it varies whether you have established your own local routines for monitoring the patient’s treatment needs and for alerting primary health services, or whether you use the general communication systems. Health South-East has established a Regional Centre of Competence for the Prevention of Suicides which has positions both at the centre and at health establishments in the region. This has contributed to a high level of awareness about the need for close follow-up of this patient group. In Health West, all healthcare companies and DPS have procedures to alert municipalities in case of attempted suicide or suspicion of attempted suicide. Some health companies have their own procedures that only deal with this, while others have procedures for outsourcing and cooperation with municipalities where warning of suicide attempts is part of this communication. Health Mid-Norway reports that follow-up procedures have been established at Health Nord-Trøndelag HF and St. Olavs Hospital. There is some variation in the routines, but the main features are the epi-crisis and, where appropriate, the special warning of fixed doctors, the warning of others in the municipality who know the patient according to the patient's consent, the hour at hand and the checklist when printed with intensified points in suicide attempts. In the case of overdose and alcohol poisoning in children and young people enrolled in the somatic department, a case is reported for the protection of children in Health More and Romesdal. In Health Nord, there are well-established procedures for the follow-up of patients who have been considered to have increased the risk of suicide during treatment. There are procedures for the establishment of the crisis plan and the content of the epicrisis in the case of outsourcing. Information on partners is requested during an income call. Psychiatric health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised treatment units have extensive meeting activities with primary health services for these patients before printing. On the basis of the action plan, guidance material has been developed that discusses the possibility for municipalities to detect, initiate early intervention and follow-up suicide and self-injury. It is also made materially about how to organise work internally and strengthen interaction with the specialist health service. Both trade unions and user and related organisations have contributed to this work. The material will be launched as soon as the recordings from the consultation round – which ends tomorrow – are incorporated. The material shall be made known in the municipalities in order to enhance the competence and effort of the municipalities. People who have been released from prison are at increased risk of suicide and overdose deaths. Challenges related to obtaining the necessary release services are often referred to as ‘glip zone problems’. In 2016, a cross-ministerial body for coordinated readmission was established following the imposition of penalties. The selection prepares several measures to close the glare zones between different instances and levels after settlement. This is also about identifying service needs and ensuring that each individual is properly monitored, whether it is about drugs and/or mental health, including suicide and overdose risks. Crime prevention is also developing an action package for the prevention of suicide in prison following the Cramer report on the occurrence of mental illness in prisons in Norway. Prisoners in prison who need long-term and coordinated health and care services have the right to develop an individual plan. Prison health professionals shall notify the municipality of residence of the prisoners of the need for an individual level and have an obligation to participate. The contingency plan for the drug field to which the Stortinge joined last year includes prison inmates and release from prison. The outpatient treatment provision in prisons should be strengthened in order to provide interdisciplinary specialised drug treatment and mental health protection. The mission was given to health regions in 2016. The primary health service provision in prisons has increased by 10 million. kr in 2017, and it is granted 12 million. In the United Kingdom, the number of new drug treatment services in prisons rose to three. The 2016 National Professional Guidelines for Drug Detoxification and Narcotic Drugs of the Directorate for Health contain recommendations for follow-up after overdose, including: to ensure an assessment of the need for further follow-up in healthcare. I assume that the services will follow the recommendations given in the guideline. The government’s response to overdose deaths is also followed up by the overdose strategy and the patient safety programme. An important measure is the pilot municipality project comprising nine municipalities, as well as four which itself finance participation. The experimental communities prepare local action plans for overdose, including measures, procedures and procedures for follow-up to overdose and overdose deaths. The pilot experience will have a national transfer value. The work of the Patient Safety Programme on the prevention of overdose deaths after release from prison is followed by the College of Criminal Affairs and the Education Centre in cooperation with the Health Directorate. An action package for the prevention of overdose deaths has also been developed after discharge from an institution. The action package has been tested in three health establishments. There has been a national learning network in which teams from all over the country have participated. Through the overdose strategy, new efforts will be made in selected areas and efforts will be made to give a greater focus to overdose prevention in existing interventions and services. Suicide work must continue. Work is very close at the end of the action plan period. For this reason, in its 2017 letter of award, the Directorate has been given a mandate to take stock of the work against suicide and self-harm and to promote recommendations for further work in this area after the end of the action plan in 2017. Further work in this area will be based on what the Health Directorate will present. The representative’s interpellation addresses an important and highly vulnerable issue, namely the risk of suicide associated with treatment and transfer between responsibilities. It is an area generally known as an area with unfortunately an increased risk of failure. It is therefore very important that health regions and health businesses now learn from each other’s experiences. I agree with what is the starting point of the inter-pellant, that the review in the status shows that there are differences in the way the different health companies work systematically with this in relation to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1531	Thank you to the Council of State. I understand that the Council of State is clear and understands what is the main point of my interpellation, that we cannot accept that this is happening when patients are moved, when they are already in the health ward. I can accept and understand very well that the prevention of suicide is complex and involves many areas, and it is also a great and important work. But when the patient is first admitted, one cannot accept that it is when he or she slips. Because there's one thing we know, and that's that having one of ours committed to a suicide attempt and being printed out, is one in the risk zone that it can happen again. I am happy to hear what the Council of State says, that he is now very clear to health professionals, and that there are going to be routines in all health care agencies. If it's a little different from health care to health care, it's not my point. The point is that there should be routine in place, so that none of these patients get caught, because then the health care department has failed. This cannot happen. We can owe it to the municipalities – they also have to do their job, and they may not have focused enough on this patient group – but it is also a responsibility for healthcare professionals, who, after all, print out the patient. This also applies to extensive cooperation between specialist and community health services, which is not good enough, nor to this patient group. You have to work with that. I'm glad of what was said about the prison system. We could have had the Minister of Justice here, too, to figure it out, because there's a problem in itself. I hear what the Council says about action. I feel that as a member of the Health and Care Committee, I do not know enough about it, but it is also part of the responsibility of the health care centre to provide equivalent health services to the population, whether or not one is in prison. We know that those who are involved have an increased risk, so I think that one is forced to deal with them, especially against suicide risk, which is very serious. I thank you for your answer and have one follow-up question. I feel that we're not talking about this much. I could have wanted us to get some stuff to Stortinget where we got status and action. Maybe a ratio can be when the plan is over, that somehow a follow-up case comes to Storting, because we need to discuss this issue more often.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1542	I thank you for the feedback on my reply. I agree with the assessments of the representative. Yes, we need better procedures and systems, but also an overview in this area. Part of the action plan was to gain a better national overview and to gain more knowledge of suicides among patients who have been following mental health protection or multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. For this reason, the Health Directorate was commissioned by the Ministry of Health to prepare and coordinate the national implementation of a suicide monitoring system for mental health protection using a model from the United Kingdom — so-called NCI — during 2015 as part of the action plan. The North Health Region was commissioned to set up a national monitoring system based on a model from the United Kingdom together with the Directorate for Health. This work is in progress, but it has taken time, for example. related to requests for data concessions and exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy, which were sent to the Data Protection Authority and the Directorate-General for Health in August 2016. It is now working to get this well implemented. It will also be an important tool precisely to provide a knowledge base for better practice in this area. The Health Directorate has been commissioned from 2017 to summarise and further provide a status and recommendation related to the results of the action plan. I see it as quite natural that we somehow report back to Stortinget about this. Now we present an annual report on patient safety and quality. It is not unnatural for this to become a topic in this context, for this is also about the area the representative addresses, about the basic patient safety work to prevent suicides occurring in connection with or after treatment. So there might be one opportunity to report back to the Storting on this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1551	To experience that one of your closest friends chooses to take his own life is indescribably painful for those who sit back — often with many unanswered questions: What went wrong? What could we as relatives, family, friends, and communities have done differently? In Norway, more than 500 people die every year of maritime murder. 70 pst. These are often young men. Among women, attempts at maritime murder and harm to the sea — a call for help — are more common. Despite the considerable efforts of the authorities over the last decades to prevent maritime murder, we still experience far too high numbers. Norway was one of the first countries in the world to take national measures to prevent maritime murder, early 1990s. In 1993, the Social and Health Directorate developed a national programme to prevent maritime murder. The programme was followed up by an action plan in 1994. Later, the National Health Knowledge Centre developed a knowledge summary on the basis of which national guidelines on the prevention of maritime murders in mental health protection were drawn up. In 2011, the Health Directorate also issued a counsellor on the care of the deceased following a maritime carnage. During today’s government, the Health Directorate’s Action Plan for the Prevention of Suicide and Suicide Injury 2014–2017 came. The plan provides a comprehensive set of objectives and measures to prevent maritime murder and harm and serves as a means to implement and further develop efforts in this area. All these measures — in addition to the many measures also referred to by the Minister of Health — tell us that the prevention of maritime murder is a very difficult and demanding task, which must be worked on continuously. The government's aim is to reduce the extent of marine damage, attempted maritime murder and maritime murder. I would therefore like to highlight the important effort made by the government in the prevention of health work directed at children and young people. We know that in the case of those who today take their own lives or try to take their own lives, it's often about people who have been plagued for years, since they were children or teenagers. These could have been helped if they had met an auxiliaries that were available when the problems arose — before the problems became too big. I believe that as important as an action plan against maritime murder, an easily accessible low-threshold service for children and young people, a health sister with an open door or accessible psychologist in the municipality. The government’s commitment to health and school health services is therefore very important to mention in today’s debate. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the government has strengthened these services by over 1 billion. kr. We're going to legislate the available psychologist in the municipality. By strengthening the recruitment grant, we have helped municipalities to employ more psychologists. These grips have produced results. There have been several health sisters, and approx. half of the municipalities have employed a psychologist. The government has also included mental health as an equivalent part of public health work, in line with physical health. With that we see the whole human being and confirm that body and mind are equally important for health. With the changes made by the government, municipalities must now have plans to show how they will implement and implement the prevention work also in the field of mental health. Once these important measures have been given time to work, both hope and believe that we should be better equipped to prevent maritime murder and attempted maritime murder. The important work in this area must continue. I would like to end by thanking the representative Toppe for addressing this important issue, and I hope that the debate today contributes to increasing the focus on the importance of municipalities strengthening prevention in general, and on children and young people in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1572	This is perhaps one of the most demanding themes to talk about. There's still a lot of taboo about it, so it's important to talk about and focus a lot on this field. History shows us that the number of suicides increased dramatically from the 1960s to the 1980s and has since surfaced. It's a serious and big social problem. It may seem that it is difficult to find good measures that work, it shows the suicide rates of the 1980s and up to the present day. It is nevertheless important not to give up, and I think the previous speech was about something. Having low-threshold offers, working on the field of practice and seeing each individual believes at least I'm crucial to getting good results. I don't think it necessarily helps with so many plans, but I think it's about meeting people where they are, being able to individually, being able to prevent, being able to see the whole, being able to get an interaction between the different services, especially to vulnerable people. This is where one sees that there is often a glitch in the interaction between community health services, specialist health services, prison services, etc. We also see a number of differences in the quality of service provision, so I think an even greater degree in the years to come has to commit and affect things. I don't think it's useful to give a lot of freedom in some of these areas. Thanks to the interpellant for addressing an important topic. It's probably not the last time this room is discussing this particular subject, with different angles. I think it's important to note that this is about seeing the individual, here it's about finding good solutions for practice, low-threshold services, and maybe we need to hit things more in and commit both the municipality, the specialist health service and other actors in a different way than we've done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1585	Thank you to those who have spoken. I had an interview about the same thing on 19 May 2014. At that time, the background was that the Address Paper had brought articles that showed that at least 423 patients had taken their lives while they were hospitalized for mental health since 2010, i.e. two in a week — shocking numbers. It was also associated with the detection of irresponsible treatment and serious system errors. At the time, the debate here in Stortinget on the need to have a continuous recording of suicide and attempted suicide in psychiatry, i.e. to have a nation-wide surveillance system. At that time, the Council of State went beyond what was a point in the action plan, which was that one should figure out the possibilities for this. The Council of State was clear and said he would consider having this included in the 2015 mission document. I can't think entirely about him mentioning this in his post, but I can now ask him how things are going, because it was positive in 2014 that the Council of State listened and saw the point of getting such a tool in the psychiatry, where there is a good deal of suicide, and it's very important to prevent it. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for the debate, and I am very positive about what the Council of State suggests – that one could get this into the annual reports on quality in Norwegian health care, which we receive for treatment once a year. That would be very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1594	To the specific question raised by the interpellant, I followed this up by giving the Health Directorate a mandate in 2015 to prepare and coordinate a national implementation of a suicide monitoring system in mental health protection based on a model from the United Kingdom, the so-called NCI, during 2015. In the same year, the health region was also commissioned to start this in cooperation with the Health Directorate. On this basis, the National Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention commissioned by the Health Directorate to develop and implement this system. The NSSF completed the planning of the project last summer, and the application for data concession and waiver from the obligation of professional secrecy was sent to the Data Protection Authority and the Health Directorate in August 2016. The procedure has taken longer than expected, but the decisions of the Health Directorate and the Data Protection Authority came in December 2016 and April 2017 respectively. These include some limitations on the screening system in relation to what was applied for by the NSSF, including: with regard to the type of data permitted and how this must be done in line with professional secrecy and data protection considerations. On the basis of this, I will now ask the Health Directorate for an updated status and progress for further follow-up to the mission, but I feel that the mission has been followed up and that the necessary application processes have now been completed, so that we can have the monitoring system implemented at a national level in Norway – as a follow-up to the interview debate that the representative pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1601	So the debate is on case No. 8 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1619	There is a clear link between living conditions and health. The age of life in Norway has increased for all groups. The largest increase is in the high education group, and there are major differences in the burden of disease and premature death. The causes of the social differences in health are compounded, and some factors appear to occur throughout the course of life. Together, cardiovascular diseases, along with lung cancer and carbon, explain more than 60 pst. of the differences in premature death. Smoking habits are probably the main cause, but also differences in diet, obesity and physical inactivity contribute significantly. In May 2012, the World Health Assembly adopted the target of reducing early death of NCD diseases, i.e. non-infectious diseases such as cancer, diabetes, heart/car disease and coal, by 25 pst. by 2025. Norway has joined these objectives of public health work through two public health messages. In autumn 2013, the government launched an NCD strategy with concrete objectives and measures to reduce the incidence of such diseases by 25 pst. by 2025. Chronic lung diseases asthma and chronic obstructive lung disease, coal, are both very common in the population and among the most common causes of entry into Norwegian hospitals. According to the NCD strategy, the mortality rate in asthma has declined in the last decades, while for coal it is still increasing. In both states, living habits are important. Tobacco use causes 70-80 pst. of all coals. Smoking withdrawal is the most important and only treatment that affects the mortality of coal. Physical activity and diet are important for the function and quality of life of patients with asthma and carbon. There are good guidelines for the treatment of the diseases, but these are not well implemented in the healthcare system. Around 400,000 people in Norway have carbon, and there are 30,000 to 40,000 new cases per year. But up to 75 pst. According to the Hordaland study, of those with carbon, undiagnosed. About 2,000 people die every year of coal in Norway. 18 pst. of people over 40 years of age have carbon. Around 40,000 people have severe carbon that requires regular contact with the health and care services. The disease also exists for other non-infectious chronic diseases, such as heart/car disease, lung cancer, obesity and malnutrition. Cols are also associated with depression, anxiety and musculoskeletal disorders. So this is a major public health challenge in Norway that doesn't necessarily get the attention that these patients have. Symptoms on coal come gradually. It is that many patients adapt their daily life to the symptoms they have, and they often seek medical advice very late in the development of the disease. Often the diagnosis is not made until the plague is so large that one is admitted to a hospital. So we know that coals follow the smoking habits. People with drug problems and mental problems smoke more than others – there is also a context. And we know that among human immigrants from some countries like Poland and Turkey, the higher incidence of smokers, so that coals can be expected to increase. In the NCD strategy it is an objective that Norway should become a transitory country for the prevention of carbon. The number of people with unknown coals should be reduced. Cases of pulmonary function and development of serious illness shall be reduced. Norway shall become a transit country for the purposes of good and equivalent treatment of coal. Cols care shall have strong user orientation. Particular attention shall be paid to occupational and social health inequalities for people with concomitant mental and drug problems. And there's going to be extra attention to immigrant groups from countries where there's a lot of smoking. In order for Norway to become a pre-convention country in the case of coal, the prevention work shall be directed according to the strategy against known risk factors such as smoking, unhealthy diets, overweight and physical inactivity. In order to reduce the number of unknown coals, a continuation of the information work, an assessment of better methods and new measures for the rapid identification of new cases in collaboration with the professional community, an incentive to increase the attention and availability of lung function measurements in enterprises with potential occupational exposure and the development of information on coal and smoke end adapted to delayed groups. In order to reduce lung function falls, an action must be taken to provide adequate training for patients with carbon and their relatives. User versions of the national professional guideline and guidance for the prevention, diagnosis and follow-up of coal users shall be developed. A task shall be systematically assigned to the implementation and updating of the national coal guideline and guidance document. Training of permanent and other health professionals on, inter alia: coal, the interpretation and execution of pulmonary function measurements and smoke weaning and motivating conversations shall also be intensified and a multi-disciplinary coal team shall be established. Here there are a lot of good goals and a lot of good actions that can help to achieve the target of 25 pst. reduction in prevalence if these measures are implemented in the health service. In order for Norway to become a priority country for a good and equivalent treatment of coal, it is also proposed that a quality indicator for coal be developed, that a national register for coal be evaluated in general practice, which I know that the health service wants very strongly, that a further development be made of the provision of local rehabilitation and the provision of learning and feeding facilities and work for good patient development at all stages. Then it's focused on user orientation. One requires good training and initial training for people with coal at these learning and mastering centres, and that this is a work that needs to be carried out in collaboration with, among others. The National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease. I was at a debate that Dagens Medisin organized, a trade conference, where I was made aware that in this patient group there are very many, there is a group that may not have as high status as patients as others, because lung diseases are related to smoking. Here's the social difference. It is a disease and a patient group that burden Norwegian health services quite a lot, where there is not such a good treatment, but where prevention is important. We are all some in Stortinget that the target of 25 pst. reduction of non-infectious diseases shall be achieved by 2025. It won't be clear if you don't get better carbon care and treatment. It's also special that one has seen so high a target that we should be a transitory country when it comes to treating chronic obstructive lung disease. I don't feel like we've come all the way there. My question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do to follow up the NCD strategy? What has been done, and what is done to achieve the goal of Norway as a priority country for the prevention and treatment of coal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1661	The representative asked an almost equivalent question for a written answer by the end of February of this year. It's not that long ago, so my answer to the interpellant will probably be known to her. As the interpellant refers to, the Ministry of Health and Welfare presented on 6 December 2013 an NCD strategy for the period 2013-2017. It shall contribute to achieving the overall objective of reducing premature death due to the four major non-infectious people’s diseases by 25 pst. by 2025. These diseases are cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, chronic lung diseases and cancer. The measures and objectives of this strategy have been largely pursued in recent political documents dealt with in the Grand Duchy. I refer in particular to the Communication of the Future Primary Health Service and the Public Health Communication – Mestring and Opportunities. Adopted policies should, briefly summarised, help prevent more, capture early-stage disease, provide good treatment where people live, and help people master life with chronic disease. The NCD strategy indicates that there are largely common underlying causes of these diseases: tobacco use, poor diet, alcohol and lack of physical activity. Public health measures and primary prevention have therefore been most often concerned with measures to help the population make health-friendly choices. Individual risk factors can be identified early so that disease development can be prevented or delayed. The Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate are developing new quality indicators, including: in the coal field. In this way, we get better data to meet the challenges in this area. In 2012, there was a new national technical guideline and guidance for prevention, diagnosis and follow-up of coal where smoke cessation, rehabilitation and training are important measures. This guideline will be revised and digitised so that advice can be more focused and targeted as the patient and health professionals need to know. Particular attention shall be paid to primary health services and rehabilitation, and a separate user version of the guidelines shall be developed. In the coal sector, tobacco investment has been particularly important, both in terms of prevention and early intervention. Tobacco use needs to be reduced if we are to achieve the target of 25 pst. drop in premature death by 2025. In order to reduce social inequalities in health and to help people with concomitant mental health challenges and drug dependence, there is much to be gained from reducing tobacco dependence and alcohol use. The escalation plan for the drug field is important in this context. The government’s commitment to tobacco is reflected in the National Tobacco Strategy ‘A Future Without Tobacco’, in the Public Health Communication and in the National Tobacco Weaning Plan. The Directorate has introduced new guidelines on smoking withdrawal in primary health services and smoking cessation measures in permanent doctors. I would also like to mention the ‘Stop’ app, which has been widely used, and I would like to highlight, of course, the action with standardised tobacco packages that apply from 1 July, and which will help fewer young people start smoking and sniffing. We have continued to grant grants for the establishment of fresh-life offers and learning and mastering offers. As a result, two out of three municipalities have established their own health centre. All health centres provide assistance to end-of-smokers, increased physical activity and healthy diets, often in cooperation with user organisations. The aim is for all municipalities to have an offer of help to change living habits and master the life of disease. The target population is persons with chronic diseases and complex health disorders at risk or in the process of developing a disease. In municipalities with many immigrants, their own smoke-out course is organised. Healthnorge.no provides very good information on the prevention of health problems and the availability of services. The website is translated into English and some parts into Sami. The plan is to further develop the page and translate the content into several languages. In order to slow down the development of coal, it is important that the disease is detected early and that the affected person receives good individual follow-up and rehabilitation. Several actors need to cooperate in providing a good range of services to coal patients. In the municipality, regular doctors and staff associated with the health centre are often the most important. We want to increase competence and better management, and we want the service to become more user-oriented and multidisciplinary. The establishment of primary health teams, to be piloted in 2018, will be particularly important for patients with chronic diseases such as coal. With more resources and broader competences, people with complex needs can have better coordinated services with regular controls, more user involvement, guidance and prevention. The primary health team can maintain closer contact with carbon patients, making them feel safer. This can lead to fewer posts in the next round. The government has presented its own recovery plan, and the Health Directorate has published a guidance for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, individual plan and coordinator. There is a need for staff with competence to meet the needs of the population, both in the municipal health and care services and in the specialist health services. The government has therefore taken the initiative to assess whether current continuing training meets the needs of the service. In recent years, several master studies have been established, including: in advanced clinical care. Many of the established continuing training courses for nurses and doctors are adapted to specialised functions in the specialist health service, while there is no equivalent offer for specialisation in the large complex areas such as internal medicine and general medicine. The Primary Health Service Communication discusses the challenge related to the increased need for broad competence in municipal health and care services. This is particularly important in the follow-up of persons with chronic diseases, such as alcohol and alcohol. cols. A number of measures have been developed through the Competence Plan 2020 to ensure that initial and continuing training is of good quality and adapted to the needs of the service. The Health Directorate has been given a mandate to assess whether the content of current continuing training for nurses meets the needs of the service. They shall also investigate the establishment of one or more further clinical training courses at master level meeting the need for broad competence in the ministry, both in the municipality and in hospitals. In June, the Stortinget shall consider proposals to introduce competence requirements into the municipal health and care services law. Coal patients need services from personnel who are not present in all municipalities today. In the long term, the change will allow all municipalities to connect, among other things. psychologist and ergot therapist, as well as doctor, physiotherapist, nurse and other groups. From 1 March we have introduced requirements that doctors in municipal health and care services must be specialists in general medicine or under specialisation. Doctors with increased competence in general medicine will have better conditions to follow-up people with multiple diseases, such as: a large number of carbon patients are involved. The size joins the primary health communication, the public health communication will help to continue and strengthen efforts in the wake of the NCD Strategy 2013-2017, and the government will follow up the Storting Decision. I believe that coal patients and others with long-standing chronic conditions will have a better offer with government policy. It takes longer to change practices than it takes to develop a strategy or a plan. We have an NCD strategy, and we are now facilitating new ways of working. When the Storting joins the various communications, we now believe that we are on the right track in the development of health and care services. The offer to chronically ill people will be better, and we're going to be able to achieve the NCD targets set by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1701	We've got an NCD strategy that is very clear and concrete about measures that would make us a transitory country when it comes to the prevention and treatment of coal. In this sense, I'm not quite happy with the response from the Council of State, which refers to primary health and public health reports, and that this should lead to us being in the world's satellite in the coal field. I lack a concrete response to the various actions in the strategy – on what has been done to those issues. The criticism in the services is that here has a knowledge, here one has the professional guidelines, but one has not yet been able to get them implemented. This does not help with a primary health report, because it was less concrete for coal than the strategy that is. Then it doesn't help to refer to a public health report, because it was also less concrete. Then we're talking about primary prevention – it's very important. But when it comes to follow-up, diagnosis, of all those who have coal and have not been diagnosed, it does not help with the primary health message that has been delivered. There is a need for a more concrete approach and a much more focused approach to both general and hospital coal patients, not least in order to improve monitoring and diagnosis. One requires public information so that people know that one is going to investigate, and that one knows that one can measure the lung function. It's very important that one doesn't leave so many undiagnosed, even to improve the prognosis. So I have a question. Smoking measures are the most important and only that can affect the mortality rate by positive coal. I know that the government has been negative to let this patient group smoke abstinence on a blue prescription, while one has a late anti-alcoholic drug coming on a blue prescription for those who have an alcohol abuse. In order to achieve the objective of becoming a transitory country, will the Council and the Government reconsider this position in the long term? It also has an economic side. One doesn't give it to everyone, but being able to give it on a blue prescription sticks up to a diagnosis, based on the degree of seriousness, I think it might be solved in Stortinget – as it looks now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1710	In my post, which was to a large extent a reproduction of the written reply that the representative has received not so long ago, there is a quite thorough review of the measures and status that have been followed up. A great deal of what the representative addressed in his main speech was about how to get adopted guidelines and measures implemented in practice. That's a big question. In very many areas of healthcare, there is no lack of guidelines, plans and strategies. What is the challenge is implementation, to make a change in practice. Several strategies, plans and guidelines at the top of existing ones — in addition to existing ones — are not necessarily what lead to results. Therefore, the primary health notification and part of the instruments in place are crucial for implementation also for the coal patients, because it is finding new ways to work that contribute to change. Primary Health Teams are in the grip of the challenge that is in today's primary health service. The fact that decision-makers do not become a sufficiently integrated part of the same healthcare service, that they are unable to work well interdisciplinaryly in primary health services, is to try to solve by organising healthcare in new ways. It makes clear competence requirements for municipalities: to contribute to the co-location, co-organisation of several municipal health services, so that patients with complex disorders and chronic diseases do not see the municipality as ‘siloorganised’. All of this is about how we can implement what is good practice for the large patient groups, for example. the cols patients. What characterizes these patient groups is that they very often don't have just one diagnosis, they have several diagnoses. Cols patients often also have e.g. diabetes, congestive heart and masculinity, in addition to coal. These are patients who just don't deserve to think of a silo- and diagnostic-based healthcare service, but we have a healthcare service that manages and abilities to work across highly skilled people. Therefore, this really is a measure that should help us to get away from the situation that we are constantly making good guides, good descriptions of what should be practice, but that patients feel that it does not lead to a change in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1719	Thank you again to the Council of State, who took the floor. Governments refer to a written question from in winter. There's a reason why I've done this interpolation. It's of course because I wasn't happy with the answer, which I don't think was a thorough review of how the government has followed up this strategy. The NCD strategy was clear. It had a concrete point. I can't see, either in the written answer or the answer here today, that one has been within the concrete points. I didn't think that was so good, because those points were actually very good. It is clear that one can have such an understanding of how to raise the field, that this is going to go into the big effort of the primary care provider. It can work, but here has a set of clear targets of 25 pst. reduction by 2025. Now four years have passed, and I ask: how much has the reduction now been? What does the Council of State do with that 75 pst? of people who have carbons, don't know about the carbons themselves? Will the primary health message make sure these people know about it? For an improvement in this area, one must at least begin to get hold of those who have the disease without knowing it. If not, help nothing. I'm not asking for any more strategies, I'm not asking for a new action plan. I just request that the actions existing in the existing strategy be set, followed up, and implemented in the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1730	Of course, it is also my wish that they be, and in a number of those areas action has been taken. But my answer was that when the representative tries to present it as if the primary health message and the grips that lie there are not answers to these challenges, I disagree with that. The challenges outlined by the representative are very much linked to challenges in how to get adopted improvements implemented in practice, and that is a general challenge in healthcare. We need to create either new ways to work or new implementation tools to get this done. One of the ways we do it now is related to chronically ill patients, the pilot on ParkinsonNet, who is now in the process, who is just a pilot based on a way of working where we ensure that health services work more closely in networks around the individual patient, that one finds health services that actually have knowledge of the disease you have, and that one has access to information. It is a way of working on implementation in the healthcare system to respond precisely to the challenges that the representative addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1735	As a result, the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1751	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1767	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1786	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Left and Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Geir Sigbjørn Tuscany on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from André N. Skelstad on behalf of the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the government to ensure, in an appropriate manner, that a proportionality assessment is carried out in the event of withdrawal of citizenship, including: the period of residence and the period during which citizenship has been acquired shall be taken into account.’;» The Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1815	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that children and grandchildren who have been deprived of citizenship due to errors committed by parents or grandparents, with the necessary exceptions and limitations with regard to unauthorised children, are given the opportunity to have those decisions reversed and to regain their Norwegian citizenship.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1832	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to grant a limitation period, which after a certain period rescinds the possibility of withdrawing a citizenship under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Civil Code, with a view to introducing such a rule as soon as possible.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1879	It is added over IV. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1893	I, II, III, and V are then voted on. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1911	The positions of the Committee, I, II, III and V, were then adopted by 51 votes to 44. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1928	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1965	In Case No: 5–9 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e1974	Case No. 10 and 11 are the second processing of legislative acts and relate to legislative acts 77 and 78. There are no comments. Bill No. 77 and 78 are thus approved for second time treatment and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-09.ana.ud32e2007	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
