ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e52	The President will start by noticing that we have a lot under formalization today. Many people are applying for leave, and there are many proposals being made – not only does the Council of State have 28 on its table. However, the President will ask that people be in the Chamber until we have adopted everything under formal procedure. The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, who has been on leave, has once again taken the seat. From the meeting alternate representative of the Nordland County, Tone-Helen Toften, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on Thursday 6 April under the permission of the representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, for reasons of well-being. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The third alternate of the Nordland County, Anette Kristine Davidsen, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It is also considered to be adopted. Anette Kristine Davidsen is present and will take the seat. Four permit applications are available: by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative of Oskar J. Grimstad from 6 April until further notice by Mr Hans Olav Syversen, on leave on 18 and 19 April to attend the World Bank parliamentary network meeting in Washington from the representative of Fredric Holen Bjørdal on parental leave from 17 April to 30 April from the representative of Mudasar Kapur on parental leave from 17 April to 23 June These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Møre and Romesdal counties, Mette Hanekamhaug, is currently abroad and is therefore unable to meet in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Oskar J. Grimstad. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the period of leave as follows: For More and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Square 18–26. April, Åge Austheim April 6th For Oslo County: Frode Helgerud 18 April–21. June, Ann Kathrine Skørshammer 18 and 19 April – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Oge Austheim is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e145	The representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e150	On behalf of the representatives of Torgeir Micaelsen, Freddy de Ruiter, Ruth Grung, Ingvild Kjerkol and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on a municipal action plan to strengthen the mental health of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e155	The representative, Freddy de Ruiter, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e160	On behalf of Torgeir Micaelsen, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Ruth Grung, Ingvild Kjerkol, Karin Andersen and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on a comprehensive plan for autism.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e165	The representative, Ruth Grung, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e170	On behalf of Torgeir Micaelsen, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Ingvild Kjerkol, Freddy de Ruiter and myself, I would like to propose recruitment to the primary health service, and on behalf of Torgeir Micaelsen, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Freddy de Ruiter, Ingvild Kjerkol, Kjersti Toppe and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for the prevention and treatment of chronic wounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e176	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e181	On behalf of the representative of Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to maintain emergency surgery at Odda Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e186	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e191	On behalf of the representatives of Pål Farstad, Abid Q. Raja, Terje Breivik and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on increased green competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e196	The representative, Mr Breivik, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e201	The size of this spring won't be without purpose either. On behalf of the Signatories, Trine Skei Grande and Abid Q. Raja, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to introduce competence requirements in the field of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e208	The representative of Sveinung Rotevatn will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e213	On behalf of the representatives of Iselin Nybø, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the Teacher's Lift 2.0.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e218	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e223	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Anne Tingelstad Wøien and myself to implement music therapy in healthcare and to increase national educational capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e228	Finally, the representative, André N. Skkelstad, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e234	On behalf of Pål Farstad, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I present a proposal on municipal freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e239	All proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the items on the agenda are taken up for consideration, the President will state that the meeting is continuing, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e259	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e268	Today we are going to consider a proposal to repeal the law on injection rooms and instead introduce a law on user rooms, where drugs can be used with impunity, as stated in the representative proposal. The proposal is to open up to several routes of administration and several types of substances. In today’s legislation, injecting is the only permitted route of drug administration, and the spray room code specifies that heroin is the only drug that can be consumed. In the vote we can see that there is no majority for any proposals, and the individual party will explain for itself where this matter stands. The aim of the law is to increase health safety and to provide more rapid assistance for overdoses. This was the reason why the Progress Party in its time supported the law, even though the resistance was partly great and came from several teams. Oslo has been the only municipality that has had an injection room for more than ten years. Recently, Bergen also opened such an offer. Bergen wants to turn the injection room into a user room, as statistics show that amphetamine, methamphetamine and cocaine have had an increasing trend, while heroin use has had a downward trend. The Progress Party has consistently supported the practice of the spray room law as it stands today, and today’s party programme does not open up the liberalisation of this law. In these days, the parties have their national meetings and new batch programmes for the next growing-up period have been adopted. We are already seeing a change in the view of drug policy in several of the parties, and it may seem that the next enlargement period can bring about some changes. The Progress Party has not had its national meeting, nor has it adopted any new policy in this area. Where we end up at our national meeting, we don't know per day. With this in mind, the Group of the Progressive Alliance has decided that we should oppose amendments to the law and the regulation. So to the Central Party's proposal on hepatitis C, the Center Party is still saying that they're occupied with local autonomy, but at the same time, it's perhaps the worst party to control the municipalities in detail. Everything the municipalities do, is too bad, and the government has to take care of it, is their mantra. This time the government asks for local initiatives funded by the municipalities themselves, such as injection rooms in Oslo and Bergen, to also ensure the diagnosis and treatment of hepatitis C. The Progress Party believes that such diagnosis and treatment should continue to be provided by specialist health services and therefore also vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e285	Heavy addicts are among our sickest fellow human beings. Cross-politically, we have managed to lift this patient group and get many during health care, but still, especially in the big cities, we have large groups of seriously ill people who are so heavily marginalized that they are unable to benefit from health care as it is today. They live at a constant risk of overdoses and diseases associated with the injection and use of drugs. All the experience and research shows that user rooms make us better able to reach the very sickest and most vulnerable drug addicts. User rooms provide less risky use, reduce overdose deaths, improve hygiene, reduce the sharing of user equipment, reduce the risk of infection, prevent hepatitis C, give vulnerable people dignity and, in particular, encourage more people to enter health care through contact. The purpose paragraph of today's spray room law is good. It states that addicts should be given drugs on which they depend, indoors, with increased dignity and under the supervision and care of health professionals rather than in urban areas, public toilets and back streets. User rooms will also reduce the conflict with neighbourhoods and lead to fewer diverting syringes. Today’s spray room law dates from 2004. At that time heroin was mainly injected, while heavy drug addicts today are dependent on many types of drugs. The Labour Party believes that it is our responsibility as a big deal to ensure that the legislation is adapted to the reality of today's addicts and the experience-based knowledge we have today. We have a responsibility to organise the offer to reach the most seriously ill drug addicts. We know that smoking rather than injecting reduces the risk of drug use, and it is therefore a paradox that we distribute equipment and have campaigns to get more people to smoke rather than inject, while at the same time refusing to take the drug indoors under the supervision of health professionals. We believe that the health and dignity of amphetamine addicts is as important as the health of heroin addicts. The written hearings clearly show that Bergen has managed to get a cross-political and multidisciplinary commitment to reach all those heavily addicted to alcohol. There are heavy professional and clear recommendations from Health Bergen, the Church's City Mission, the Bergen Clinics, the municipality and the user trust authority at the MO Centre. In this setting, we have chosen to reproduce the full opinion of the trustees of the low-threshold users. There are few who can express the need as clearly and clearly as those who are in the middle of it every day. The intuition was one of the most surprising. They have been in care for Russorg in Bergen for 105 years and today have 30 unique as temporary housing for men with major disorders. The institution concluded its letter of consultation with a direct appeal to the Health and Welfare Committee to use the unique opportunity we have today to save valuable lives by changing a outdated law. Intravenous use is thought to be room for use and not drug injection rooms now need care. It surprises me that no more will take up new knowledge, listen to professionals and those who work closely with the most marginalised and ill-addicted addicts, who we do not have the ability to reach today. We thought that at least right after their national meeting, we would support the proposal to modernise the spray room law. I therefore support the proposal to the Labour Party and the Left. The Labour Party will also go into the comments of the Right and the Centre parties, on page 4 of the vote, so that at least we get a majority for an order here from the Stortinget to start an investigation — from injection rooms to user rooms — in order to give all seriously ill drug addicts an equivalent offer to take their drugs indoors. We also support the proposal of the Central Party in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e304	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e309	Up until recently, since the adoption of the spray room regulation in 2004, it has only been the municipality of Oslo that has established injection rooms. Bergen has now also got his own. But there are only two places, two municipalities, in Norway where drug injection rooms are available for drug addicts. The issues addressed by the Left and the Labour Party in this proposal for a representative are real, and they also concern us in the Right. Firstly, it is a fact that many of those injecting drugs inject drugs other than heroin, while the provision of needle and syringe rooms provides only so-called freedom of punishment for heroin. It is therefore a real challenge for many injecting drug addicts to stand outside the provision of a safe area for injecting, because the regulation does not open up. It's a dilemma, and it's a problem. However, when a proposal from the previous government on the spray room law and regulation was being consulted in 2013, there was no question of allowing the injection of other drugs into the hearing. In the right, we believe that it is such an important issue that there is a need to consult other drugs than heroin, and we are therefore asking for this in our comments today. The question of allowing heroin to be inhaled in injecting rooms was out for consultation in 2013. Several heavy hearing bodies supported the proposal to open up smoking in injection rooms. The intention of the injection rooms from the start was to create a safe arena to avoid overdose deaths by injection. Because inhaling in the injection room really helps to change the whole intention behind the rooms, we believe that we need a broader discussion about whether we should go from redefining injection rooms to user rooms, as the proposers also want. In smoking heroin, the risk of overdose is minimal, and there is a clear national objective of getting more heroin addicts to go from injecting syringes to smoking it. That's why it's also very positive that we've got the SWITCH campaign, which allows you to switch, or switch, from injecting to smoking and getting guidance on it, and that the Minister of Health has also opened up Nalokson's nose spray. The right supports a hundred percent of the intention that we have to meet the heavily addicted better. In the future, it may be quite right that injection rooms become history and that user rooms become a better name, but not least a better service. Although the spray rooms are currently only available in Oslo and Bergen, this is a small but important part of the care for drug users. Then we all share the hope and intention of helping the ruspaces out of addiction, but we need to have more thoughts in our heads. We have to make sure to have services on many levels that capture the weakest, and that protect those who really need our help. What we need to have a thorough discussion about now is whether to turn the injection rooms into a lower-threshold user room service. We think that user rooms might then be more topical to establish in other cities and cities as well. Then it's important that we think we'll hear the whole of this before we make the change. So in order to take seriously the increased debate and proposals in this representative’s proposal that injection rooms should have more function as a low-level user area, and the intensified campaign to get heroin addicts to switch to inhalation instead of injecting, we believe that in the Right it is wise now to have a wider consultation than the previous government provided in 2013. It is also necessary to consider the proposal to open up drug use other than heroin to the United Nations Conventions in this area. The right is known as moving on these questions. We believe that making injection rooms into user rooms can be right. It is good for the Workers' Party to signal so clearly that they also support the intentions of our remark, which will give the government clear signals of sending such a broad case to the hearing. We are concerned with drug treatment in Norway that meets those addicts in the best possible way. That's why we think it's important to get all the views and knowledge available at this point, and we're asking the government to add up to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e337	In this case, we're talking about a group of people that we can't help. As a society, we have an obligation to stand up to these heavily needy drug addicts and to help them live a dignified life. In addition, it involves having a drug policy to help those at risk of health damage. When I get so involved in this, it's because I have it so strongly inside of life. All parties now have a process in law, in injection rooms and in user rooms, but we must not get into the situation that we give up and will give up a substitute for the goal of helping everyone to get a life without drugs, if possible. The Christian People's Party believes that harm-reduction measures are important both to control the difficult situation of drug addicts and to prevent fatal overdoses, but we do not want to allow measures that legalise drug abuse. That is why the Christian People's Party is going against the proposal that exists, and we are also going against a regulatory change. We have a program process and a national meeting in front of us, but it is essential both in the programme that exists and in what comes, that we do not lose faith in helping with a goal of a life in abstinence. We also think we should have a review of the entire LAR scheme. The LAR system works well for some groups, but the entry threshold has become low and the exit threshold has become high. The objective of LAR has changed. The objective for injection rooms has now also changed. We started with one type of substance, and we're changing this. We have to ask ourselves the question: is this helping them, or is it not helping them? I'm willing to change if it's for real help, but I believe in more health care for those who are unable to achieve the goal of abstinence – with more low-threshold offers, with proper housing, with good follow-up, with a dignity over time, where they are actually allowed to be in their own home. It is necessary to ensure that they can get help over time, that it is not just an outpatient job that takes a short time, that there are different treatment options, that they are not the same, that not everyone can be cut over one comb – that someone needs to be with private people, that someone needs to be with ideal actors, and that someone gets help in public. The Christian People's Party believes, as we have said many times now, that we must have faith in the individual human being, that it can benefit from treatment, and that it can benefit from meeting places where it is seen and has a goal of abstinence. We are strongly committed to a comprehensive drug policy, to prevention, treatment, follow-up and aftercare, prevention and treatment aimed at drug-free treatment, as well as to getting there that one can be without medical help. This has to apply to everyone, including those we think we've given up, and those we don't think we can help, because it's those who live in this, who are alone with their challenge, who think they're not getting any help, who actually pay the price. I'm willing to be pragmatic to aim care and treatment at the individual, but where we are now, the Christian People's Party does not want to open up to change the spray room law, rather to change the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e350	Injecting drug law was adopted in 2004. Our starting point for this case is that today there is an opportunity for municipalities to set up injection rooms, and no party has taken the initiative to change this. This is the question of whether we should listen to the municipalities that have chosen to set up injection rooms. There are two municipalities, the two largest cities, Oslo and Bergen. Especially from Bergen, there is a desire to change the laws so that it can be opened to inject drugs other than heroin, and that it can be opened to inhale heroin — not just inject. Personally, I'm quite sceptical about injection rooms, assuming that I'm not sure if there's a proper prioritization of the funds in the russian community, because it's very expensive, it costs a lot of millions to operate, and when you look at what else is missing in the russian community, I'm doubtful whether it's the right priority. This has also been the starting point of our Central Party in Bergen. But we respect the municipalities that have set this up, and we thought that we should take the question that comes up now, seriously. When it comes to inhaling heroin, it is a slightly different issue for us than opening up to new drugs. The background for this is that inhaling heroin has already been debated, it was listening in 2013. We can read what the hearing aids said at the time, it was both, some were negative, but there were also a lot of people who were positive. After an overall assessment, the Centre Party is now ready to review that amendment. I know that spray rooms both in Oslo and in Bergen have free rooms. This is something you might have got a suggestion for the Storting about now, one doesn't need a new listener. This is why the Central Party proposes that the government return to the Grand Duchy with proposals for a change in the spray room law and the injection room regulation to open up for inhalation of heroin. When it comes to allowing other drugs in drug injection rooms, there is another issue, because it is not apparent that this is in line with UN conventions. I mean, as the proposers do, one just asks that this be fixed. It is not trustworthy, because this has to be listened to. And then the Center Party is a little bit open; it's going to be a little bit more to open up, but we think we need to get an assessment of this, especially against the UN conventions. So we've supported the comment on page 4, which we've talked about in several ways. But it's also the way a person tends to enter a comment in the setting, one cannot just go into a comment in the room, and there is no suggestion. That comment actually has minorities, when the Right Party and the Central Party, which have a good assessment of what, in my view, must now be done, and which also ensure that it is defenceworthy, because we need to know what we are doing if we change the spray room regulations. Of course, we have to have this on a wide listener and listen carefully to what comes back. Finally, on the second proposal from the Centre Party, to ask the government to work actively to actively use the injection rooms established to intensify the prevention and care for the diagnosis and treatment of hepatitis C. I noticed that the case spokesman in his main post spent a lot of time at the Center Party because of this proposal, and that this goes on the municipal self-government. It's a little funny when they don't want to let the municipalities decide if they should be able to give you an inhalation of heroin. Looking at the objective of injecting rooms law, it is precisely in order to contribute to increasing health safety, including prevention of injection and infection. This proposal is very much in line with the intention of injecting drug law, and this is a reminder that hepatitis C is a serious disease that takes many good years of life from drug users. This is what the Center Party will fight for. Then I'd like to make suggestions from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e369	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e374	I allow myself to start this post by quoting former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland. One of her most used quotes, from a New Year's speech, is: It's typically Norwegian to be good. With regard to drug abuse and policy, I would rather borrow a slogan from Canada's liberal prime minister Justin Trudeau: better is always possible. Luckily, I have to say – for the left part – that it's typical left to be first. The left has taken the lead in the first injection room in Norway, in Oslo, and with the corresponding law in Stortinget, at the then Justice Minister Odd Einar Dørum in the Bondevik II government. Now we're going in the middle of the second, and to change both the name and the practice, without changing the purpose. The aim should be to increase health protection, such as saving lives and reducing harm, but also to contribute to reducing the open-ended drug scene and to be one of many measures to dampen an aggressive, illicit drug market — without legalising drugs. The left was also the first to open up housing rather than prison to the court programme, also initiated by then Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum of the Bondevik II government — a first step towards decriminalisation, about at the same time as the spray room law was established and adopted in the United Kingdom. We were first going to accept heroin-assisted treatment for those who can't use drugs in today's LAR program. We first claimed a 24-hour treatment guarantee after detoxification. Better is always possible. In particular, it should apply to those who need it the most. Now we're talking about people who have an average life expectancy of 20 years shorter than the rest of the population. They have almost without exception serious mental and somatic diseases at the same time and need a lot of health care. Heroin smoking, as an alternative to injecting, is, according to national overdose strategy, a less harmful health route than injecting. There is a lot of talk about heroin here, but the challenge is becoming at least the same with other drugs. That's what we're now going to do. The needle and syringe exchange law dates back to 2004 — a lot has happened along the way, for it was more than 13 years ago. Newly produced substances are emerging that can be consumed in several ways. It therefore appears paradoxical that we have a law on injection rooms that contradicts both the national overdose strategy and the future challenge we face. When I talk about better is always possible, more parties have been involved in program processing now, and the Right has e.g. have received a lot of publicity in the media related to the national and programme meetings in the last half of the year. These include decriminalising drug use, less focus on punishment and more on treatment, even testing heroin-assisted treatment for the most heavily addicted and amending the injection room law to allow methods other than injection. This case could become a dressing room for Right new clothes, instead everything becomes at the old one, in a sample room with a little dusty curtain and worn clothes. One can hide behind the curtain and say that it has to be an investigation, that it will only take one year, but that's also where we're facing the big challenge: what happens in one year? Last year, about 260 people died of overdose. This year we might get down to 240, if we're lucky-- next year maybe 220. But in three years, there are 700 lives we're talking about. There are many lives to take off, obviously, while things take time. That's what's the challenge: it falls down a plane every year, and nothing else in society would we accept that a plane fell down without us having a breakdown commission – or did more to help those who are the weakest. The future is not an injection room, so we're just talking about Oslo and Bergen. In my county, Oppland, we have between 10 overdoses per year. Only in Gjøvik and Lillehammer there is a need for better responses, but injection rooms are not the answer there, there is a user room. Now we have to get to and help to reduce the damage we see in this sector today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e391	First, I would like to thank the proposers for an important proposal. Seriously, said the representative Kjenseth from the Left, about how many die every year, and that we have also known for many years that there are no measures to help the most disadvantaged and addicted. I find that Norwegian drug policy has unfortunately been full of too much wishful thinking and intelligible attitudes to alcohol. I am of those who have even made a vow of euphoria, so I cannot be accused of being a liberalist in that context, but nevertheless I see that the harm-reduction measures are far too bad in Norway, and they have been so for too long. This debate is also a bit influenced by the belief that the strengthening of harm-reduction measures will give up abstinence, and that is not true. We have to stop saying that, because that's not right. This is about making the way to maybe a treatment easier. If you get people to inhale and not inject, we know that the risk of overdose decreases, wound damage decreases, spread of infection decreases. Health is getting better, and when health is better, it's also easier to accept other offers. It's easier to work better in society. I was among those who were very happy when the Right made their decisions at their national meeting, and wanted to congratulate them on it. That is why there is a downturn when we are now going to deal with this matter and the Right, which has the Council of State, does not follow up their own decisions on this. What might be the small point of light today is that you say you should have it out at the hearing, and it's at least something and it's a little step in the right direction, but it's going really slow. As the representative of Kjenseth also said, it should be part of the national overdose strategy to allow heroin to be smoked in an injection room. Instead, the argument is that smoking reduces the risk of overdose, as an argument against allowing it in injection rooms, because it should initially prevent overdoses. Then you argue in a ring, which ends up in disease and maybe overdoses. Hepatitis C is also a serious health problem. It hurts awfully many people. Many of them are in a very vulnerable situation, and it's very precious to society. Only being able to reduce the incidence of hepatitis C will be a reason for allowing this in what is now called injection rooms, but which should be called user rooms. Sending signals that drug use is not good seems to override almost everything we do in drug policy. We have to take from the reality of those who are addicted to drugs, and see how we can contribute to harm relief far more than today. Therefore SV will support proposal No. 1 from the Labour Party and the Left, and we will subsidiaryly support proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. As regards proposal No: 3, from the Center Party, we have some questions -- not those that the representatives of the Advance Party had, because it's strange to discuss local maritime governance in this case if it's about being able to diagnose and save lives. The question is just what it means to ‘provide for diagnosis and treatment’. In the view of the SV, it must of course be done in close cooperation with the specialist healthcare service, so that they may be unloaded there if there is no capacity in the injection room for this. So there's a little bit more to the practical implementation of that proposal, but we have an intention to vote for it if it gets a little bit better explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e407	Fortunately, there are currently many debates on drug policy, both in the political parties, in the trade unions and among users. I feel that this debate is now much more open, much more pragmatic, and I am very pleased about that. I think that many of the posts here – although there are some exceptions – also express this. One must have the transparency that many parties are involved in processes where one changes their position, and respect that not all parties carry out their national meetings on the same weekend and at the same time. The representative proposal is an expression of a commitment to the drugs field, of which all parties are engaged, and which also shows that there is a need to look at the consequences of today's policies. We see changes in the use of illicit drugs. Use of heroin is decreasing, while use of amphetamine and methamphetamine is increasing. Many people use several types of drugs and drugs, often in combination. We still have too many overdose deaths, and the incidence of hepatitis C and other infections is high among drug addicts. The government assesses different approaches to these challenges. A proposal for a change to the IDU Act and the IDU Regulation opening for the inhalation of heroin into drug injection rooms was sent to the hearing of the previous government in 2013. The consultation round showed that there were different views on the issue, including: was the Norwegian Narcotics Association, the Rusmis users' Association of Interests, the Norwegian Psychologists' Association and the Police Directorate against the proposal. These thought it was unlikely that a long-term heroin user injecting will switch over to inhaling. Some agencies also pointed out that the proposal could facilitate increased trafficking of heroin, because inhalation requires a higher amount of the drug than is required for injection. Some also thought that changes could contribute to the increased recruitment of new heroin users and new groups of users because the threshold for inhaling may be lower than for injecting heroin. The estimates for this proposal indicated that inhalation is less harmful to health than injecting and that the changes would therefore help to reduce injuries, infections and infections. They also indicated that more people with heavy drug dependence may be more likely to come into contact with the auxiliaries if heroin is inhaled in injection rooms. Several bodies and organisations supported the proposal, including: SIRUS, Actis, Oslo Police District, the Church's City Mission, the Play Association, the Health South-East and the Health Directorate. The representative proposal goes beyond the 2013 proposal because it also opens up to the use of other drugs in drug injection rooms. Opening up to other drugs requires a new consultation. Prior to the 2013 hearing, the Ministry of Justice and Defence assessed whether opening up to inhalation of heroin would be contrary to UN conventions in this area. I am aware that in the last annual report, INCB is now talking about injection or use rooms in the sense that the system as such does not conflict with the conventions. The prerequisites for compliance are, inter alia, the following: the provision of services within a framework facilitating treatment and rehabilitation, while not promoting the increased use and placing on the market of illicit drugs. I believe that the proposal to allow other drugs in addition to heroin in the injection room should also be considered in this context. In the light of the ongoing debate and international developments, I will re-examine these questions and come back to the Storting in an appropriate way. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the government has continued the appropriations for the follow-up to national overdose strategy and has not least invested considerable resources – together with the Christian People's Party and the Left – in the escalation plan for the drug field. We have increased capacity in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, and waiting times have decreased. Municipalities have been strengthened by the growth of free income in order to provide better services to those with drug problems and to provide low-threshold and harm-reduction measures. We are on track with the escalation plan, and the questions raised, especially those related to overdoses, cannot be met with just one measure; they need to be met with a broad range of measures. The national meeting of the Court of Justice shall, on the initiative of, inter alia: by myself, adopted a new policy for the follow-up of drug addicts for the next ageing period. I look forward to implementing that policy, but I also have respect for other parties carrying out their national meetings, and the Right sits in a government where we cooperate with three other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e426	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e431	Noise policy may be one of the fastest and pure knowledge-based fields, but despite the fact that we have received quite a number of LAR treatments and other measures that make them health-treated, when we do not reach the weakest. I was so lucky to be the case rapporteur for the priority message, so it's in the backbone as to whether we have a responsibility to prioritize the most ill, and that's what it's all about here. I understand it this way from the post now that Höie as Minister extends quite far, but shouldn't one be clear now, by a majority, to take care of – because it's not about adopting a law here and now, it's about starting a job, based on the reasons we've described in our post – both to open up smoking in addition to injecting and to stand freer in terms of which substance to allow, as they've done in Copenhagen? So the question is, why not take this grip now, and start a review of the law to try to get these under health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e438	I perceive that there is a lot of work going on in this area, as I also referred to in my article. We're now on the verge of a majority period. At the beginning of this ageing period, many parties had a different position on these issues. I respect that when parties are going to change their policies, do it through programme processing and national meetings, and that then applies a new programme for the next enlargement period, but that does not mean that one needs to sit with his hands in prison during that period. Here a good job will be done, and if one ends up being a majority to make changes in the next enlargement period, one can do it quickly, in line with the requirements being set. So this is one of the instruments, and I would like to emphasise again that most of the work on overdose deaths in Norway is taking place elsewhere than in injection or user rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e447	We've agreed on this all along, but it's about being able to get the very most marginalized in contact with the health care system, those who don't benefit from it today, and see if we can think about another way and get them during health care. The city that has been most advanced in this area wants this to be strong, including cross-political. And there's something about respecting that majority, because together with the Right, we could get a majority to make a clear order for this right now. What progress does the Minister for Health see that such legal work should take place? Every day, people who are exposed, living under unworthy conditions, under a bridge, around an offer – an immediate house – where it is really clear that they could go in if they had used other drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e454	With regard to the general situation of addicts, I have much more impatience than the Workers' Party itself had when they put in position and could do something about this – and did not implement an escalation plan where we spend 2.4 billion. more precisely for the follow-up of drug addicts in municipalities. The type of legislative changes required by this work will in any case not be able to be implemented until the next period, and it will then be fully feasible to do so. The representative himself withdrew the prioritisation message. I am of the opinion – and the representative well knows, having seen my commitment to this at the National Council of the Right – that these are good measures, which the municipalities should have the opportunity to assess in a wider context. But if I was a local government representative in a municipality, it is not certain that I had seen user rooms as the most effective measure within the limited resources that a municipality has. There may be other measures that are actually much more effective in this respect. [[President clubs]] But it's a challenge that some of those municipalities, among other things. Oslo... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e461	That's when the time was up. The representative Grung gets a third line under a little bit of doubt, because we have two other replicators on the list. Grung, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e466	Now it was a little disappointing, because now you're starting to refer to the previous period. It's important to see how forward-looking different parties are today, because the future is ahead of us. And now, in fact, it's Bergen City, the City Council, who has chosen to prioritize the funds in this way, just to reach the weakest – have some respect for the fact that Bergen has sat in the driving seat and managed to really get a cross-political action plan, where all the relevant actors are involved. Is it not important for a Minister of Health, when it comes to the sickest and most vulnerable fellow human beings, to support a city that goes ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e471	Yes, and therefore the government has contributed to Bergen being able to give priority to this through the escalation plan. But I'm disappointed in other cities, for example. Workers' Party-led Oslo, who do not even use the funds they receive in the escalation plan, is an action, even though this is one of the cities where we see an increase in overdose deaths. I think that is disappointing, because the municipalities now know that every year they get more money for escalating in the drugs field. Many cities and municipalities have major challenges in this area, and I am disappointed that they are not following up and using these funds for what they have got them to do. We are absolutely committed to supporting the work that is being done in Bergen. With regard to this single measure, I am convinced that this is going to be a solution, but I also believe that the representative should respect that other parties have different views, but are in a process of changing their positions, as the Right has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e478	First of all, to the Council of State and Government: the escalation plan is very good, and as the Council of State says, we need to work widely to reduce the number of and prevent overdose deaths. That's finally what we're talking about here. Norway, one of the smallest countries in Europe, is at the top of that statistics in Europe. We're among the countries that have the most. It's a big challenge. Half of them happen in Oslo and Bergen, and half happens in other parts of the country. So the user room is important for more than Oslo and Bergen. The mountains have gone ahead – across the board – not only in the municipality, but they are also in front of the hospital sector, with a separate department for drugs. Would it have been possible to let them try this out without going to the step of changing the whole regulation by sending it out to the hearing, making a NOU and then a crash message and propositions, and instead going straight to the goal and giving Bergen a leadership trough?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e487	Implementing the proposed type of change in the injection room will require changes to the law and regulatory work. So it wouldn't be possible within the law that Stortinget has adopted. We don't have to go very many paces to make these changes. Regular consultation and legal proceedings are required. It doesn't require a NOW or that kind of thing. The major radical issue adopted by the National Court of Justice, namely shifting responsibility for follow-up and responses to people in possession of drugs to their own consumption, will require more investigation work to find out how the experiences of Portugal can be carried out in a Norwegian context. But this will not require such extensive work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e495	I'm glad of the last thing that the Council of State said, that it won't take very long processes to come up with a decision, because it's very urgent. Now we are talking about measures for those who are the worst. There are a lot of other measures in the whole chain that need to be strengthened, and if you want to make sure that the money you give goes to what they need, you have to label it. That's the experience, unfortunately. That's the way it is. When the Council of State says that the way to getting something done here doesn't have to be that long, the question is, what will the Council of State do now? How broad and what themes will the Council of State launch consultations and preparatory work on now? It is clear that we are now moving towards a majority that is in line with what the National Assembly of the Right and the National Assembly of the SV have adopted, and to which the Labour Party and several other parties are also on their way – so that we now have this clear and heard, and that it is possible to put it into effect, regardless of which change is coming... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e502	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e507	The work of the government in this area has been explained in my reply to the committee and in the statement. It will not take a long time to achieve this in the next growing-up period if there is a majority for it. So it's something that you get to come back to, and it'll be well prepared. I am very pleased with the developments that are now being heard in the discussion of drug policy in all parties. I think that is important in order to create good legitimacy for the implementation of the changes that I believe are also necessary in this area. We also see that there is a lot of good going on, both as part of the escalation plan and as part of the follow-up to the national strategy on overdose deaths.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e516	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e523	The ambition to reduce the number of overdose deaths we all have, and we're all concerned about it. Smoking heroin in injecting rooms will help some, but most addicts need, first and foremost, the measures that we, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have initiated through the escalation plan for the drug field. SERAF has recently investigated all prison discharges in the period 2000–2015. Of these, 123 died of overdose the first week after release, and a total of 493 people lost their lives of overdose in the six months following release. There are complex reasons. We know that in the transition from treatment to return to the municipality, it is essential that you have good aftercare to avoid overdose deaths. That is why we need to strengthen that work. We have to secure housing, we have to secure work, we have to secure activity, and we have to ensure good protection. It may well be that this is what the representative Karin Andersen says, that in some municipalities – including in red-green municipalities – one has to pay attention to local politicians taking responsibility for this. However, there are many municipalities now making local contingency plans for drug use on the basis of the funds granted by the government, 2.4 billion. DKK over five years. My own municipality, Eidsvoll, is now doing it. I'm very proud of that, and it shows that local politicians take responsibility for these addicts and for those who need help in the municipalities. So there's been a little discussion about this with the comment. That's the way this remark about asking the government to send out on the hearing, doesn't have a majority, but I know that we have a health minister who listens, and I know that it matters what is said in this room, so we expect the government to take this debate seriously, and that we get a hearing that provides a broader basis for getting movement in this case and solving these challenges better in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e534	It's great that a minority comment is continued. I assume that it was the Center Party that was decisive for it, and not that the Right stood out. That's very good, what the council says. I was challenged to take care of our proposal on hepatitis C. I would like to stress that hepatitis C is a global health problem, and it is an international objective to eliminate this disease. The Institute of Public Health has said that it is possible to reduce hepatitis C in Norway, and they have seen a target that it can happen by 2025. But the problem, the big challenge, is to find those who are infected. The second challenge, of course, is to avoid multiple infections, i.e.: clean user equipment, from injection to inhalation, is an important argument for us today to agree to be able to offer smoking in injection rooms. So to the proposal that a government begs to ensure that one in the municipalities that create injection rooms, and in the injection rooms that are, intensifies prevention and provides for diagnosis and treatment. It's like those who use injection rooms are those who are at the highest risk of having hepatitis C, and if we can't catch them, we've kind of lost before we get started. It is clear that this must be done in collaboration between local health services and specialist health services, but one can ensure that prevention is intensified, i.e. clean user equipment, allow them to smoke instead of injecting, etc. However, ensuring diagnosis and treatment now is not to be understood in such a way that they should do it themselves. The point is that one must have good referral procedures. It may be the responsibility of the health care provider for these injection rooms. They may be able to offer tests. The Institute of Public Health says that it must now be able to give as a low-threshold measure, such as this. One must be able to ensure that they come to the delivery elasticity measurements they need to follow the disease. I think that, as I said in my previous post, is quite in line with what is the purpose of the spray room law, simply – and I quote from Section 1, purpose: ‘Further, the injection room system shall contribute to increased health protection, including prevention of infections and infections’. I think this is so important to get in place that it could be a plural proposal that when we have injection rooms in Norway, they can be used in the fight against hepatitis C.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e550	This has been an interesting debate to follow, to listen to all the good speeches – actually from both sides – on the matter. The Progress Party has not yet concluded, because we have not yet had a national meeting. These are things that will certainly be discussed during the programme process, which the chairman of the Committee also presented in a good way. I would like to say that I have never been afraid to dry to go ahead and dry to think untraditionally and was quite proud when my municipality chose to say yes to medical treatment with Subutex – before it was legal by decision in Stortinget, one had a decision in a local government that one was willing to dry up and fight for this. That is why this debate is important. And I think, as I said, there have been good arguments from both sides in the debate, which at least I will go further in the process that we are going to have in our party on whether or not to change our position, considering where one has stood so far, because in the current period we are opposed to the proposal that now exists. Then you'll see what you'll find in the debate. But it's a little interesting when a representative from the Workers' Party in a line change with the Council of State says we don't have to look back, we have to look forward to what you want to do in the future. I fully agree with that, because it's important to be forward-looking. But it's okay to realize that this is actually a government that has really put the care on the agenda, given that we have a health minister, and a committee leader from the Progress Party, who is very concerned about and burns for the care of people, along with many others. We've now invested over 2.4 billion. kr for the next five years. It's a real boost for the care of the drug, as well as many other interventions you've done. So this is a government, two government parties, the Advance Party and the Right, who, together with the cooperation parties, are concerned with taking the drug addicts seriously, and helping them to get a decent life – perhaps all of them without being addicted to drugs, but you also have to take care of those who can't get out of it. I also think that the representative of Bollestad had a good point, which in a good way brought forward some of the dilemmas in this debate. I'm worried about those who are afraid of legalization, and how to get more involved by doing some of these steps. I think it has been a good debate. I think we've got a lot of good ideas. I am happy to see that we will also discuss this at the national meeting. So we'll see what the next magnification period is going to show. The council also says that these are the things he's working on, so that maybe you can change quickly in the next period, if that's what the majority wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e565	It is said that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. I feel that when we discuss drug policy, it often becomes a bit like this. There are many dilemmas – yes, there are a thousand dilemmas in this – but what we know a little about is that if we manage to improve the everyday life of those who are most addictive and most outlawed, more of them will actually survive, get through and perhaps even be able to accept a treatment offer. That's what's the starting point for our commitment to this. Then I am pleased with the clarification that the representative Toppe gave. I would perhaps also hope that more parties who today want to go further – as requested by SV – and support the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Left – could at least go for these proposals in addition, because it takes some steps in the right direction and must be the right thing to do now when so many parties have placed themselves there and seen that this is necessary. So it's enough that there's been a lot of escalating up against the rush. The government should be very grateful for that. Most of us have spent even more on drugs in our alternative budgets, and we have also earmarked the funds. If we examine how things work in different municipalities, I don't think it has anything to do with party color. It looks very different in different places, and according to the Swedish authorities, earmarked money is necessary precisely to be able to follow up the promises we make from the state that this is actually a help to those we say we should help, whether it be child protection, psychiatry or drugs. In the municipal sector, they have too little money for all the good purposes and all the good actions we know are necessary. There is one reason why SV has prioritised the local economy higher than all other parties in this room, precisely in order to be able to meet some of these needs that exist locally and that must be met differently, as others have been. It will not be right to have user rooms in all municipalities, but in all municipalities there will be a great need for increased efforts, among other things. in the care of animals, from prevention to after-care.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e574	I start with the representative Mr. Bård Hoksrud, who referred – quite correctly – to a good and very important debate, and there was also some of the intention to promote the proposals, but he was also a little concerned that we have emerged as two sides in this debate. In my article I pointed out that better is always possible. I'll repeat it and try to build a little bridge. I perceive that we're all concerned that better is always possible, and that we appear less and less as both sides or as two parties. We'll do it in the future. It's a little bit about the velocity, of course. When I pulled back some threads to the early 2000s and the cooperation administration, it shows, 14 years later, that it takes time to develop actions, and that it takes time to get better. So that's possible. We're politicians that are speeding up, and now it's time to speed it up because it's happened a lot in these years. To the two proposals of the Central Party: All the arguments of Kjersti Toppe's representative are really for user rooms. We're going to prevent, we're going to extend the specialist health service on the street to meet the addicts and to increase health safety. We need to reduce the possibility of getting diseases and infection, and not least reduce the possibility of overdose. If we can reduce overdoses and reduce hepatitis C infection, we have done two very good measures for the most heavily addicted, so the Left will subsidly support the proposal of the Centre Party. Of course, there was also a debate on whether we should support the comments from the Right in order to start investigations. Yes, pragmatically, it's natural to get started, of course, because it will take time. So there's also something to point out that here we mean different about the velocity, and that this is possible to do now. As of today, we have only one injection room in Norway, in Oslo. The mountains have opened one and want more. They have good professional prerequisites for doing that job, but they also have a large drug environment that is demanding to get better. To the Christian People's Party: I have all the respect for believing that we should be conservative. But it also involves dealing with a reality where we almost had to block the boundaries of drug imports, and it is a huge challenge where the Left does not want to be in debate... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e585	The President recalls the speaking time, in and of course throughout the debate. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e601	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e610	There is a cross-political consensus in the Committee on the importance of investing in lowthreshold services and that action has already been taken to strengthen prevention services in municipalities. In recent years, municipalities have been able to apply for a variety of drug and mental health grant schemes, including: Rapid mental health care and the recruitment of psychologists in municipalities. The Committee welcomes the fact that several municipalities are now setting up good prevention services for children and young people, and believes that there is a need for further strengthening of this area. It is also an overall committee which, in its observations, supports the proposers in the importance of interdisciplinary services in order to provide good and holistic services for children, young people and adults. This was also one of the key themes of the Primary Health Communication, which Stortinget addressed in 2016. The Committee also notes that the Stortinget has asked the Government to present a comprehensive cross-sectoral mental health strategy, on a proposal from the Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. It is clear from the Council of State's letter to the Committee that the government is now working on this strategy and that the strategy will cover both the public health perspective and the service perspective for children, young people and adults. The Committee also agrees on the main mental health challenge. Recent reports from Norway and the Nordic countries suggest that there is a slight increase in the prevalence of mental illness among young people. According to the Swedish Institute of Public Health, about 15-20 pst. of children and young people with reduced function due to mental health problems. That one in five young people are struggling is also confirmed in the Young Data Studies. About 8 pst. of Norwegian children and young people have a diagnosis of mental illness. So a joint committee also says that it's not unusual to have mental health challenges during life. We know that approx. Half of us will experience it. But if we are able to prevent mental health problems in children at an early stage, it will be very important for the rest of their lives. Psychiatric health must be a major and important part of public health work, and therefore our government presented a new public health report only two years after the previous government's announcement because the red-green message did not address mental health well enough as part of the important public health work in all our municipalities and communities. In the Right, we are proud that together with the government partners, the Progress Party and the cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have made a promise to strengthen the prevention services for children and young people. Through our budgetary cooperation, the municipalities have received funds through the escalation plan for mental health and drug use, and it has been allocated close to 1 billion during this period of government. to strengthen health centres and school health services. A new report from SINTEF shows a significant increase in annual work in mental health and drug services in municipalities. Municipalities are committed to providing children and young people with better health services. For adult psychologists, there has been an increase of 41 pst. from 2015 to 2016. For children and young people, there is an increase in psychologist specialists of 25 pst. For the first time since the end of the Roadmap for Mental Health in 2008, there has been a marked increase in annual work aimed at children and young people with mental health problems and/or drug problems. Over half of the country's municipalities and townspeople have now recruited a psychologist. Good mental health is important for good quality of life, and therefore efforts must be made earlier towards those who are struggling with mental health. During this government period, Norway’s first youth health strategy has also been presented, which aims to help young people master their own challenges and live a good life. Important themes are mental health, solitude, bullying, school dropout, social pressure and exclusion. Of course, young people’s own views and experiences have been central to the strategy. In recent years, prevention health services and important escalating in drug and mental health have become a high priority, because it is when the door to health care sisters is finally open more school days a week, or when there are psychologists already in kindergarten and in schools who can give children good mastery advice that life goes up and down a little, and that we can manage to master it, that we can talk about low threshold. The Health Committee was visiting the Municipality of Oppegård last year. There we met psychologists and health sisters who, in an exemplary way, told us how they work preventively and continuously with the overall mental health of children, throughout kindergarten and throughout school. It seemed to us that Oppegård has invested a lot in low-threshold mental health care, and they have been able to seek funding and prioritize employing interdisciplinary health professionals to work with the most important resource we have, children and young people. Our government's strong commitment to multi-disciplinary and competent school health services is crucial to providing children in school with good mental health care early. Seeing a large growth of psychologists in municipalities means more accessible mental health care for people of all ages. In the Right, we are proud of the positive development and are sure that it will develop even more positively in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e635	We know that mental problems are an important reason for the great decline in high school and early disability. According to the Swedish Institute of Public Health, about 15-20 pst. among children and young people, such as anxiety, depression and behavioural disorders, and several studies suggest an increase in depressive symptoms among girls, although research is not clear whether mental health problems are generally increasing among young people. Half the population suffers from mental illness during life, and 70,000 children and young people suffer from mental disorders requiring treatment. Fortunately, the most common and most costly mental disorders can be prevented. When something is difficult, it must be easy to get help. It is therefore essential for municipalities to be able to provide low-threshold and easily accessible assistance, good information on the relief measures and coherent assistance services across disciplines, sectors and levels, in view of early efforts to address the unfortunate development of children, young people and adults. Such offers must be designed in a way that makes it feel natural for everyone to make contact. The Directorate-General for Health defines low-threshold mental health services as direct help without referral, waiting and long process time — offers that can be visited by users without payment capability, help that is available to all, and provides early and sufficient help and perhaps a loose further in the system. Professional staff must have the competence to fulfil the objectives of the services. The time of opening must be appropriate for the target population and purpose. There must be good user involvement and acceptance for the needs and needs of users. It must appear to be a visible, clear, relevant and trusting offer for its citizens. There are several municipalities today which have good lowthreshold services for their inhabitants, but not all municipalities have a well-functioning and cooperative system in place. For us in the Labour Party, it is important that all such good and effective welfare offers are made available to the entire population. Everyone's coming, that's it. Examples include Young Arena, an Oslo-based project aimed at children and young people aged 12 to 25 who need advice, treatment, support or help out in their life situation. It can be loneliness, it can be everyday challenges, a difficult, maybe transitory situation, it can be trauma, assault, intoxication, apostasy, bullying, eating disorders – yes, most of the things that make life difficult. Young Arena works according to some important principles that have transfer value to other municipalities. The stanchions are another example of a health promotion called the House of the Family. It is a successful low threshold offer. There are many different professional groups working together under one roof, without a shot between the professional groups. In the municipality of Lierne, in my home country, they have created a multi-disciplinary family unit that offers low-threshold help. There is a great deal of excitement in the competence of employees, but help is available. The threshold for seeking help must be lowered, no matter where you live in Norway, not just in Oslo, Strange or Lierne, but in all Norwegian communities. The Workers' Party wants large-scale and government to be the driving force for more such good services in municipalities, with rooms for local adaptations based on local experience and assessment when the low-threshold offer is established and further developed. An important requirement for content must also be that the offer contributes both to individuals and to preventive health work. That is why we are promoting our proposals here again and hope that more parties will participate and ensure that low-threshold mental health services for children, young people and families are established in all municipalities. So I take up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e656	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e661	Still, we hear that today's youth is better and more duty-fulfilling than ever. They smoke less, drink less alcohol and start drinking later. They're training more, they're good at school, and juvenile delinquency goes down. At the same time, the youth of many is a difficult time. Psychiatric problems are an important reason for dropouts in high school and for disability. Many children and adolescents have symptoms of anxiety, depression and behavioural disorders. In order to make the best possible use of the municipal offer, the proposers call for interdisciplinary expertise. There is no disagreement about this, and the rapporteurs are well aware that this was adopted in the Stortinget in the context of the primary health notification. Proposalers also point out that it is essential to facilitate the early provision of good help and that access to help does not depend on where you live. This too is a broad consensus, and therefore the government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, has granted close to 1 billion. to strengthen health centres and school health services, as well as earmarked funds for community psychologists and other good measures. Local authorities have also received funds through the escalation plans for mental health and for the drug field. In addition, the government will present a comprehensive cross-sectoral mental health strategy. This too was known to the proposers when the proposal was put forward. Work on the strategy is in full swing. This will cover both the public health perspective and the service perspective for children and young people. The process of developing the strategy also includes other departments with children and young people as their responsibilities. For children, it will be particularly important to focus on what promotes good mental health outside the healthcare system. There is also reason to recall that the public health message promoted by the red-green government lacked mental health as a theme. That is why the Right Party government has promoted a new public health report where mental health was given a lot of space. During this government period, Norway’s first youth health strategy has been presented. This aims to help young people master their own challenges and to live a good life. Important themes are mental health, solitude, bullying, school dropout, social pressure and exclusion. Young people’s own views and experiences have been central to the strategy, including: have been set up a recording youth panel. A new report from SINTEF shows a significant increase in annual work in mental health and drug services in municipalities. For children and young people, there is an increase in psychologist specialists of 25 pst. For the first time since the end of the mental health escalation plan in 2008, there has been a marked increase in annual work aimed at children and young people with mental health and/or drug problems. Over half of the country's municipalities and townspeople have now recruited a psychologist. So it's been very important and right in the last three years, and things are going in the right direction. The Progress Party understands that the Workers' Party must control its municipalities from Stortinget. Fresh figures show which municipalities have been allocated earmarked funds for the school health service in 2016. The criterion for getting ear-marked drugs was that you had used 90 pst. of the free resources allocated to health stations and school health services. The figures show that out of 203 working party municipalities, there are only 20 municipalities that have applied for, or have been allocated funds, because they meet the requirement. There is once again reason to remember that it is the parties that promote most of the suggestions to govern the municipalities in detail, which are at the same time very concerned with local policy priorities. Some lots should be decided soon. Should the municipalities manage care and care, or should we direct this from Stortinget? We put a lot of government leaders. We're trying to tell the importance of how the municipalities work, but at the same time we can't control everything unless we want to take over everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e682	Norway has been assigned to one of the world's best countries to live in, yet we have never had so many children and young people who are mentally struggling. We also have many young people who don't see a solution to life and choose to take their own lives. One out of five is mentally struggling – 20 pst. The Christian People's Party believes that all children and young people should receive an accessible and equivalent health service of high professional quality, regardless of their social background and where they live in the country. Good mental health is important for good quality of life. But we know that the waiting time for children and young people in need of specialist health care has not fallen, and you have to do a job on many levels. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we in this Chamber have agreed that there will be an overall strategy that will show where the challenges are, and then a binding escalation plan for children and young people's mental health, so that we take the goal, provide measures and grant money where the benefits become greater. Here, children and young people themselves are going to come and say something about what they need, and what is the best treatment for them. The Christian People's Party will work for a level of knowledge and quality in this area, both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service, and that the two things must actually be linked. The Christian People's Party would like to share in passing on the earmarked funds to psychologists in the municipalities to ensure that we achieve the goal we're actually going to have. We are in order for municipalities to have decentralised services and that the number of years of work in mental health for children and young people needs to rise. Children do not primarily ask to dip down their problems, but they ask for help and time to sit down with an adult and put words on what is bad inside the chest. The Christian People's Party believes in a binding standard for school health that ensures that there are enough adults with knowledge, other than those who sit in the classroom and are teachers, who can meet the students in school everyday, and that the psychologists are in place when the problem is there and one wants to talk about it. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is a lot of work in the school health service, and for the psychologists in the municipalities, and we're glad that we've also had some of these resources earmarked. The Christian People's Party would have liked to have earmarked more, until we reached the level we actually believe is right for our children and young people, so that there is never a closed door when one comes to the school health service. However, when the Christian People's Party does not support this Document 8, it is because we know that there is a strategy. We know that in that strategy, one will put this under the spotlight and look at what is missing in this field, and then a binding escalation plan will be created – a stepping-up plan that may show that there is a need for low-threshold services, that there is a need for interdisciplinary work in the municipality, that health centres, child protection, psychological services and mental health may have to work together. But we don't know that per day, and then we have to get an overview of what helps best. We know that many municipalities have good effects from doing this, but I think that we should succeed, we also have to take children and young people and ask them. Sometimes we adults think we know best. When it comes to the piece and we've built a bike path, it's not the one they use -- they ride in the middle of the road anyway. So this is also going to be right over here. We have to ask children and young people what they need, and we have to make a strategy, and then we have to commit ourselves to the money being included in the action plan. It deserves our children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e699	Thanks to the proposers who have made a proposal for a representative for a very important area in the Norwegian health service. The proposal is to ask the government to ensure that low-threshold mental health services are established for children, young people and families in all municipalities, that it can be established as a family home and/or other easily accessible services, and that these services must be interdisciplinary and cross-cutting so that a person is given a holistic service. No one, I suppose, is opposed to the intention behind this proposal. It is also not the Centre Party, but we cannot agree with the device that is the basis of the proposal – and I will do the right thing for why. Psychiatric health protection has been through a transition that has been both professional and political, at least at the beginning, where one converted from extensive daily treatment in hospitals to decentralisation to the district psychiatric centres and municipalities. The question is whether this conversion has gone too far. It's been recorded on several occasions by the Center Party. Many beds before mental health protection have been removed in Norwegian hospitals and perhaps without the local authorities having the chance to build up their supply accordingly. I'm still worried about that. The centre party shall make a similar proposal early in this period. We believe that there is now a need for a new escalation plan for mental health, which this time should not cover the entire healthcare system, i.e. hospitals, but which should only cover the municipalities. We looked at the statistics on annual work in the municipalities after the closing of the last plan, which showed that there was no growth, possibly a small, weak growth in annual work before psychiatry. Therefore, we propose a five-year municipal mental health escalation plan where a user uses ear-marked funds in an escalating phase. That's what we're going to repeat today. When one of the settings refers to the SINTEF report, which shows that there is a significant increase in the number of years of mental health and drug abuse, I would remind you that it is the second year after a combination of the drug field and mental health. Before this was merged, the drug field had a growth, but not mental health. I am concerned that the new way of counting does not show the real status of mental health in the municipalities. We mean by our suggestion that we, Stortinget, can't say that it's the family house or something that's going into the municipalities. This must be evaluated by the municipalities themselves. Is there a health centre that needs a reinforcement? Is there a need for more psychological settings, or should a family home be established? We do not want to commit to the proposal. We want a municipal escalation plan so that the municipalities themselves can make the right decisions. I have a reflection on this debate and some other debates we have to raise the mental health field. No more talking about the fasts. We're talking about the family's house, we're talking about psychologists, we're talking about health stations and other possible low-threshold facilities. But it is clear that when it comes to families and young people, the determination is also important in this work. I heard a Document 8 proposal today to recruit more staff, so I hope we can come back to the responsibility of the staff for those patients who have mental health challenges – and that applies to both families and children and young people. I propose that the Central Party should do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e718	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e723	Strengthening the mental health provision of children and young people in municipalities is very important. For the left, there is one of the most important things we can do to promote good health in children, and what prepares the basis for healthy and robust adult life. Fortunately, we have been able to participate in this process and contribute to a historic effort at an early stage, together with the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. As many people have been involved, it has been invested over a billion dollars in municipalities to upgrade school health services and health centres. A power cut has been made to employ more psychologists in the municipalities. Kindergarten is made free or more reasonable for those who need it the most. And the early school effort is strengthened by more teachers. In addition, hundreds of millions have been allocated to different grant schemes to strengthen lowthreshold provision in municipalities. As others have pointed out, the first youth health strategy in history has been presented. The left has been an important contributor to it, and a summit on youth health was also organised in connection with the Youth Olympics at Lillehammer. This is evidence that we are taking children and young people's mental health more seriously. But it's also important for us all that we connect body and psyche more closely, that we do not treat it as two different parts of our health, nor do we distinguish as much between somatic and psychetry as we do in today's health sector. A small contribution that the Left has contributed to obtaining a majority in this period is bringing the Psychiatric Health Professionals into the state budget, an important expression of our taking children and young people's situation seriously, their experiences. They have become travelling ambassadors for children and young people who are struggling mentally, also because they express their experiences in their own way, and it is also important for us politicians. Someone's been in the organization here, and we have to keep working on it. Half of Norwegian municipalities have a health centre, but we never talk about mental health as part of the health centres. There, most nurses or physiotherapists work, and they may work most with those who are referred because of obesity. There may be a connection between mental health and weight, but it doesn't have to be. But to a very small extent, we think that mental health should be part of the health centers. Luckily, we've started talking about packaging processes and public health, the long races, where it's possible to make changes in life. The family's house is another part. Very few municipalities have organized it. Secondary school is another field I want to point out, because they don't even own school greetings themselves. Many of the activities and other courses in secondary school are under Nav. The Nordic Council has carried out a study on how this is organised in the other Nordic countries, which also face the challenge of non-response. All countries face the same challenges with regard to the implementation of secondary schools, and partly with regard to the organisation of measures and the means of preventing young people from falling out of school — out of the school, out of the circle of friends and the rest of their lives. Bringing together resources here is something we need to talk more about both in the municipal sector and around those young people who require a lot of effort. So to the forthcoming escalation plan, there are important reasons why the Left does not support these proposals. In the course of the three years, the Left and Christian People's Party has been in a state of crisis in negotiations with the government to make more and more efforts towards children and young people in particular, but also to bring forward Norway's first mental health strategy. All of this is now on the stairs, and we trust that there will be a plowing of both a strategy and money to strengthen the effort from 2018/2019. In addition, we also need to work on the important organisation of these measures in order to invest best in people's lives. An investment in children is much better than an investment on the stock exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e739	SV believes that there is a need for an escalation plan for lowthreshold mental health services in municipalities. We proposed this in our alternative budget for Christmas, where we earmarked 200 million. kr to get a local offer without waiting time and strict admission requirements. The offers must be different, but they must be low. In the light of the interaction reform, this is incredibly important, because we cannot continue to downgrade the specialist health service and the number of bed places without a good offer in place. Prevention and lowthreshold services also require much more. The posts that have been held here today show that. This applies to both children and adults. On Monday I was at a meeting at Hamar on a family program called Home Start. There was also the psychologist in Stangehelpa, who has been mentioned in the debate before today. There, emphasis was given to volunteering and co-work with families who are struggling for periods of time. A great many of those who had been helped say that it helps. So it's all the way down to what we have to discuss. The psychologist in Stangehelpa reminded us of this was that the normality concept today is very narrow. Many young people get diagnostics that they probably shouldn't have had, and they don't have any help at all. Accepting that kids are different, and not imposing on them a feeling or giving them a stamp that they're going to wear is important to slow down that development. These diagnostics can be anything from being placed as a little special and strange and help-needing, searing if one isn't, and it does something with one. The serious thing about these diagnostics can be another, completely extreme case, where you're diagnosed with ADHD, while it's actually an assault you're exposed to. The Christoffer case is an example of horror and horror. There's a lot that needs to be done locally on many levels so that people who wear a little bit will get help, maybe even be told that it's completely normal, that there's really no big problem that your kid can't sit down at the dinner table or in the classroom. It may be a very common personality that the child has, and rather we have to make sure that what's around is adapted to find those kids who are actually struggling with mental problems and those who may be at risk of assault. Wide-ranging efforts are needed in many areas, and the best option is to get this as early as possible and as local as possible. I am also pleased that several representatives have mentioned the Change Factory and that those who have the experience must get in. What I think is perhaps the easiest thing for us to understand, is how we organize this help towards those who have young children, while it is considerably more difficult when you have children who are growing up. Therefore SV wants to put a special search light on it. That's why we've chosen for many years to earmark our efforts for the school health service, because that's where you meet all the kids. There's a chance to go to someone and talk about what it might be impossible to talk to both teachers and parents about, but as it might be good help to talk to some adults about, maybe get help, either because it's a common problem that solves with a little bit of good adult support, or that you actually have a problem where you need technical assistance at medical level, or maybe you need help from child protection or other agencies. I look forward to the strategy that is said to come, but in this area as in other areas, we have to have people doing this job. They must be employed, and they must be present where children and young people and those with mental problems are, so that it is possible to get help early. We will support the two proposals put forward in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e754	Representatives address several important issues in the proposal to establish lowthreshold mental health services for children, young people and families in all municipalities. I share the goal of the importance of early efforts. Help must be readily available and must be effective. There are many authorities in municipalities that provide services that include mental health services for children and young people. Many municipalities have also established good lowthreshold services, which are also mentioned in the debate here. Common to the municipalities that succeed in this type of offer is that they take into account the needs of patients. But despite the fact that several local authorities do a lot to help children and young people and their families, I meet children and young people who experience not being heard when they ask for help. The government has therefore done a great deal to strengthen the supply of mental health, with a low threshold for children and young people, in cooperation with our cooperation parties. We have been committed to increasing the number of psychologists in the health and care services in municipalities through a recruitment grant. Over half of the country's municipalities are now receiving grants to psychologists. In 2016, a total of 395 psychologists were reported. 273 of these are aimed at children and young people. This has provided more lowthreshold services, better prevention of health work and more cooperation with other municipal services and with specialist health services. But there is still a need for investment. I would like to add that children and young people up to the age of 16 can visit the permanent staff and get a free consultation there. The project ‘Rask Gesichtshilfe’ has been in place since 2012 and the evaluation has shown good effectiveness. This is a low-threshold community treatment provision for people with various anxiety problems and mild or moderate depression problems. The lower age limit has now moved from 18 to 16 years. These methods should be applied in all municipalities. There are already several different self-help tools available on the Internet. Digital self-help and mastering tools can help increase the availability of information and contribute to prevention and treatment opportunities. Health and school health services are an important service for early detection and prevention among children and young people. Many say that the school health service is not available when they want it, and employees say they need to give priority to all the important tasks. The government and the cooperation parties have therefore, over several years, made significant efforts in the field of health and school health services. In total, it's now strengthened by close to 1 billion. NOK, of which more than 730 million. NOK in the municipal framework and SEK 280 million. kr of earmarked grants. The revised regulation on health centre and school health services shall be consulted and the new regulation shall be aimed at its entry into force as from 2018. The new regulation includes: clarification of the service's responsibility to prevent, detect and avert violence and abuse against children and young people. We have limited knowledge of the distribution of annual work between the health centre and the school health service, and on what the employees prioritise time use. The Health Directorate has been given a better overview of the distribution of annual work and is investigating how different tools can be used to develop health care and school health services. A report on the work will be ready in October. Health promotion can prevent the development of mental health challenges. This is an important part of the government's commitment to mental health in public health work. We have now established a programme for public health work in municipalities, where children and young people and their mental health are the main target. Through this programme, municipalities can be helped to develop tools and measures to promote mental health in the population. This is a program that was granted nearly 40 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the Commission in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The government is concerned that children and young people should have easy access to good health services, even when they face mental health challenges. A new mental health strategy, which will cover both the public health and the services perspective, is now being implemented – as many people have been involved in. This work also includes lowthreshold mental health services, as the representative suggests. The voice of users is important and will therefore be involved in the development of the strategy. We see that there has been a significant investment in this area in recent years, but, as many have been involved, much remains to be done to ensure that there is a good enough offer for children and young people to take care of their mental health. The effort must be early. Therefore, it is important to have a good strategy as a basis for prioritising the new measures in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e777	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e782	This proposal for a representative is about mental health provision, specifically targeting families, children and young people. My question then applies to the very early phase, simply mental health around birth, in maternity. We know that one of ten new mothers is developing birth depression, several are showing signs of it, many of them are undetected, and one is also concerned that shorter periods of rest in the maternity wards can make many more fun because the provision in the municipalities is not yet built up. So my question to the Council of State is whether the government is looking at this, and whether there are some specific measures that the government has to put in place to prevent more people from having birth depressions that are not being treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e789	Through the health care provision and the follow-up of pregnant women, but also during maternity, public health work starts before the child is born, and it is now working to strengthen this offer. The government has provided this in the state budgets that we have submitted, and the negotiations that have been in Stortinget. I think that the most important thing you can do in this area is to strengthen the ability of municipalities to follow-up in health care and midwifery. Now we're working on an overall strategy for mental health, which needs to be a good foundation for identifying the areas in which new initiatives are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e798	Thanks for the answer. I have a follow-up question that goes on this with maternity follow-up, because the council is talking about the health center in pregnancy, and it's also very important. But there are new guidelines for maternity care, which are important precisely to discover whether a birth depression has developed. My concern is that many municipalities are still unable to meet what are the professional recommendations, with visits at home for a certain time, etc. And I think maybe there's a consensus that there's a need for a lift out in the municipalities to get more midwives in place to follow up the pregnant women after birth, especially when a now is faster out of the hospital. So my question is, what does the Council of State have to do with the provision of maternity when it comes to follow-up, that is, that part of the health care agency? Does the Council see the need for an extra effort when it comes to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e807	The money allocated to this area has the ability for municipalities to prioritise there as they themselves feel they have the greatest needs. We'll now look at where there's a need for new bets. So on Friday the government promoted proposals for a new law, which Stortinget now has to deal with, which makes clear competence requirements for municipalities, among other things. requirements for midwifery competence. I hope that more parties than the government parties and the cooperation parties support that law, because in that case it would involve a shift, since the parties that were in the previous government have just removed the requirements for professionals in the municipal health service law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e814	I would like to have a follow-up on depression and mental problems related to pregnancy, childbirth and childbirth, because it is a very important matter. I visited Kongsvinger Municipality for a while back, where they have established what they call a family department, where they catch up with some of the families who may be struggling both with networks and with putting in place the relationships and making it work in practice in everyday life. They have chosen to organise this under kindergarten, because it was where they were able to find money for it, but it is obvious that this also has implications for both child protection and mental health as well as physical health and follow-up. So my question to the Council of State is, when you make this strategy, which is now under work, will you take into account that here you might have to organize it differently in the different municipalities, and that this kind of low-level follow-up is very important?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e821	Yes. This is also why until now the government has been committed to combining this effort with earmarked funds in some areas, but with free resources in other areas, precisely because municipalities often have good solutions both in the organisation and in identifying the disciplines in which they are lacking, and could have great freedom to use resources. We see that it gives us results. While we were in a situation when we took over, where the annual work in these areas went down, not least the annual work related to the work on children and the mental health of young people, we have now reversed development and are in the process of recovering as we inherited from the previous government. It's very positive. I am also concerned that the municipalities here find different good solutions themselves, but we also grant a subsidy to the Health Directorate to municipalities that want to gather this type of services during co-location, for example. in the form of a family house or other thing, such that one gets the services in one place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e828	None of the municipalities I have spoken to about this or about child protection or school health services have said that it is earmarking money that is the problem, there is a lack of money that is the problem. When you actually get money for a purpose and strengthen it interdisciplinaryly, it is quite possible to earmark the money too, so there is no problem. The problem is that the money does not exist. If the Council of State had the SV budgets to manage, he would have had a lot more money for these areas as well. So I don't think we need to discuss that. But perhaps a slightly different question is this with the interaction reform, because the community health service has worn out. Not everyone builds up similar offers as what is being built into the specialist health service. How will the Council of State ensure this in the psychological field?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e835	First of all, there's the money. 1 billion. kr is authorised to strengthen government health and school health services and cooperative parties, in a combination of earmarked funds and free resources. This is probably one of the reasons why the representative does not hear much complaint that this money is being too detailed by the state. Perhaps the sound had been slightly different if SV's budget had been adopted. Yes, the interaction reform has created major challenges for municipalities. It must almost take responsibility for itself. However, we are now committed to strengthening the interaction between specialist health services and municipalities in the area of mental health and drug use. This is why we are now imposing requirements on how municipalities and healthcare are to interact, for example. in the context of mental health and drug abuse. It was an area that the previous government did not give priority to the cooperation reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e843	I think it's time for the Council of State to take responsibility for what he's in charge of, and not just for others. I think, to put it that way, if the local government sector had got the financial envelopes that SV has proposed in its budgets, it might have had a completely different economy to deal with both in school and in health than it has today, so I don't think there was a problem for the municipalities. What I'm asking is that you actually make sure that this comes into place. In some areas, you have recognised that you need eartags. And so does the government in some areas. When we started in the red-green government and stepped up on child protection, we saw that not to label, not working, and then we had to do it. And so do others. In the field of drugs, the government does it, but not in mental health. What's the reason for that difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e848	It's not a proper presentation. In mental health, we have a very clear ear mark. We give direct recruitment grants to hire psychologists in the municipalities. That's what results are. The number of psychologists has increased significantly over the years as a result. In the case of school health and health care, there is a combination of earmarked and free resources. Not least, the earmarked funds are designed so that the municipalities that show that they use the free resources for the purpose can get extra funds, some form of reward, because they then show that they are willing to make an effort. But it gives the municipalities freedom, just as the representative was inside, to find the good solutions locally on how to organise the offer. Then I perceive that SV is especially, and also the Workers' Party, very concerned about criticising the government. But then they also have to bear in mind that their alternative policies are called into question, because that is what the choice is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e857	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e864	I just needed to say a little bit when we're talking about bed capacity in hospitals that are being built up, and then we're talking about children and young people. The Health Committee was in Stavanger a couple of weeks ago, right in the Children's and Youth Psychiatric Department and the Family Unit, where one saw that if one moved out of the specialist health service and got to work out, there were better results. This is according to the same principle as an advanced home hospital for seriously somatically ill children. The results also show that if we get there, it is better for the children and for the young and better for the families. They are allowed to be in their normal environment. It does something to those who are going to live around them, whether it's school or kindergarten. I think we also have to think about that when it comes to mental health. Perhaps the specialist healthcare service, in line with the low-threshold provision in municipalities, needs to work differently in the future? That's what the strategy will show, I think, so we can bet on the right horse, so we win the race that's about helping as much as possible. I believe that it must be possible to have more thoughts in my head at once, and it is possible to do anything but increase the bed capacity of the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e869	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e885	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e894	The representative, Toppe, mentions the strengthening of the emergency medical offer outside the hospital in this representative’s proposal. Several of these proposals are a follow-up to the Emergency Committee report, NOU 2015:17 First of all – A comprehensive system for dealing with acute diseases and non-hospital injuries. The proposal for a representative makes a total of 14 proposals to strengthen the offer of emergency medicine outside the hospital, including medical services and ambulances. Emergency medical preparedness is the foundation of our healthcare. It shall provide security for emergency assistance to all — throughout the country and whenever they need it. The Committee shares much of the challenge outlined by the proposers and presented by the NOU. There has been a need to strengthen, in particular, the medical services, and the emergency medical regulation, adopted in 2015, now imposes requirements on the services in terms of competence, response times and cooperation between the establishments providing these services. The professional communities and the other consultative bodies, including in the context of the Committee’s consideration of the proposal for a representative, believe that the investigation provides a good description of the status and challenges and provides a basis for future action. However, the hearing bodies are divided into many questions and point to the needs of the investigation and potential costs for municipalities. In assessing emergency medicine for the future, it is important to be aware of the consequences to be expected from the various proposed measures. For example, what are the costs of the proposed action plans, strategies and actions in this proposal for a representative? It also contains several proposals for the regulatory setting of different service objectives. The intention is good, but the majority believe that this may be the reason why the objectives of the service are better as quality objectives, rather than as regulatory requirements. Norway has a geographical area in which the service must be organised differently based on local conditions. Regulations that are simple to comply with in one part of the country may be very difficult to comply with in other parts of the country. The letters of the Council of State to the Committee point out that several hearing bodies, in particular district councils and inter-municipal medical practitioners, believe that a requirement for travel time will reinforce the challenges of recruiting doctors, which have been and are a theme of the Committee. Several intercommunal medical teams believe that the proposed requirement for travel time, without the creation of multiple watch bases, is problematic. The State Health Authority also mentions this. A unanimous committee indicates that the government is following the NOU 2015:17 First and foremost. The follow-up must be seen in the context of the national health and hospital plan and the primary health notification. National health and hospital plans indicate that hospital structures and ambulance services need to be viewed in a coherent way and that an emergency response change requires a simultaneous review and strengthening of the ambulance service. We have a good ambulance service in Norway, it's important for people's safety. The Committee points out that the Council of State has entrusted regional health establishments with the task of reviewing the base structure and capacity of the air ambulance in the light of the national health and hospital plan leadership. Most of the proposals put forward in this proposal for a representative are the promotion of work in progress by the government. I understand that the proposers are impatient, so are we. However, several of the proposals require a more comprehensive investigation, and efforts are already being made to put the measures in place. We have a common goal that the population throughout the country should feel safe to get competent and prompt help in emergency situations, so let's have a common goal of putting in place the best-functioning measures across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e915	In the past, the Workers' Party has clearly stated that we had expected the NOU – First and foremost – from the Acute Committee to be treated as a whole in the Stortinget and not in pieces and divided. This has been mentioned in the treatment of the last state budget. The acute chain is about life and death, about early and proper intervention, and about treatment that determines survival and reduced harm to survivors. Good emergency chain depends on good interaction between primary and specialist health services, and there has been a weak point that has remained in many of the messages that we have addressed in this room. There is a need for a national lift to increase the capacity, competence and quality of the emergency chain. Despite the extensive knowledge base on status and challenges, medical care remains one of the most neglected areas of Norwegian healthcare. That is why we expected a comprehensive plan for treatment here in Stortinget. The Centre Party has chosen to promote 14 actions on the basis of the report of the Committee of the Regions. For the Workers' Party, it is problematic and unsatisfactory to decide on many of the concrete proposals – although they are good – and the measures they have not been properly investigated. We therefore support some of the proposals and intentions in many others. Throughout, we believe that it is better – as the rapporteur was also concerned – with quality objectives for the service instead of regulatory requirements. The reason for this is the same: Norway has a geography that requires different types of organisation of the service based on local circumstances. We also believe that the medical watch should have a call-out vehicle available and that the safety of medical personnel should be ensured. It is particularly important to have an outreach vehicle with certified personnel with a long distance from the hospital — there is a parallel debate — and medical competence may be required before transport. The need may differ from one city to another and should therefore be investigated, taking into account the costs involved. I am promoting the proposals behind the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e930	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e935	When it's urgent, when it comes to life, it's to hope that we politicians have provided the best possible emergency service for all the inhabitants of the country. This is why we are discussing this proposal for a representative here today – recognizing that the individual human being is small and helpless when acute illness occurs and one is in a situation where one depends on others making decisions and providing solutions that make the help close to the life-critical event. This is precisely why the government's objective is to ensure coherent systems of emergency services within and outside hospitals that provide adequate safety and quality throughout the country. The aim is for the whole population to feel secure in getting competent, adequate and prompt help when the need is greatest. The proposers promote no less than 14 proposals which they believe should strengthen the emergency medical offer outside hospitals, including medical services and ambulances. Several of the proposals, as mentioned earlier in the debate, are a follow-up to NOU 2015: 17, first of all. The government is in the forefront of its follow-up, and the Council of State has already, in letter form, briefed the Council of State on the measures taken. It is reassuring that the Council of State has announced that he will return to Stortinget with the follow-up of the NOU. Emergency medical preparedness is important for people. However, as the Emergency Committee writes in its report, Norway — with long distances, widespread settlement and climate challenges — is a challenging country to provide emergency medical services. Of course, this does not prevent the search for the best both political and health solutions for most people to feel secure that emergency care is provided through the patient’s healthcare when the need arises. Nevertheless, it is not possible to ensure complete safety. Acute illness will continue to lead to acute deaths that no health budget or healthcare can prevent. Therefore, it is so important that we optimise, develop and strengthen the prehospital services and the prehospital emergency medicine in all possible ways, including in research. Strengthened prehospital services can save many affected by acute illness. It is pointed out from a majority in this Chamber that several of the hearing bodies of the Committee of Inquiry report require more investigation and will have major consequences and costs. Many of the proposals are not suitable as absolute requirements that will apply to the whole country. Therefore, standards or quality objectives would be more appropriate than regulatory requirements in some areas. This government has presented its national health and hospital plan. It states that there should still be a decentralised hospital structure with a spinal cord of acute hospitals. I think that's part of creating the security of the population in all parts of the country. And in all cases where there is no offer of emergency surgery right outside the learner, it is vital that the prehospital services are well-developed and well-functioning. In this respect, I am pleased that a Bachelor's degree in Ambulance will be established, which will strengthen the competence of the Ambulance Service. Specialist training in emergency medicine will also ensure even better and safer reception conditions and assistance when acutely ill people arrive at the emergency reception after ambulance transport by car, boat, aircraft or helicopter. In view of the importance of emergency medical preparedness for people, I feel confident that the follow-up to the former NOU will take care of the 14 proposals that proposers are making here today – at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e950	Building the patient’s health service is building a foundation wall that makes it the best condition for treatment and rehabilitation. Early intervention is important in many places in life, and perhaps the most when you are seriously ill or injured and it says about life. Meeting acute injury or illness early, with the right competence, right response and right help, is important for the health outcome of patients, the damage that is incurable and the quality of life that they will live with for the rest of their lives. After many years of work in Norwegian emergency medicine, I know from experience that those who are furthest away from help rarely call, and that those who have the greatest access call most often. The longer the journey, the fewer demands, and when they get there, they're really sick. That's why this is important to get in place. We are a long country, with great distances and different weather. This means that we have to provide for some assumptions at the bottom that ensure that we get the most equal starting point when patients arrive at hospitals: medical watch structure, whether on land or on water — in some places they also have it on board Ambulance structure air ambulance rescue service ideal helpers such as the Red Cross and the Public Aid knowledge of what they are going to do, call 113, that they are going to put the patient in stable side rental, and that they are able to save the heart and lungs, which is vital to success; When the National Health and Hospital Plan was adopted, the Christian People's Party was occupied with just this whole thing. What do we take into account for the health and health plan? What are the assumptions society is making for us to succeed in hospitals? It's not useful to have many fancy treatments in hospitals if we get too late and the heart or brain is broken. In many places, good cooperation between municipalities and health businesses is a major challenge in developing and dimensioning emergency medical services. This has in many places created conflicts and resulted in the centralisation and weakening of preparedness and health care. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is urgent to put in place the competence and quality of medical care and the dimensioning of air ambulances, so that we know that there are the same possibilities to be picked up where you are in the country, that it is important to think about response time and how to put in place good medical guards and good medical practice in municipalities with great distances, that you should be careful that ideal actors such as the Red Cross and the Public Aid along with all other good forces are connected to the public when the disaster or the emergency occurs. When the committee was in Stavanger on a visit to Lärdal's factory, we were told that the general knowledge of people was the most important thing to succeed in emergency medicine – that we build knowledge and competence, so that those who watch a fall are able to help in the minutes that may count the most. That's why the Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring that knowledge also in school and kindergarten, that we are actually already starting to build a competence that sits in the back of the day that something is happening. We can see differences from part of the country to part of the country in the emphasising of emergency medicine and results. Some places in the country have been more able to survive a heart attack because there has been a great idealism among specialists, because there has been a driving force at the Red Cross and other ideal actors, and because permanent practitioners and municipalities have been connected. More survivors. We have to make this work all over the country. We need to get an interaction between medical staff, ambulances, air ambulances, hospitals and fast doctors, and about response time we have to mean the same with red, yellow and green responses. That's why the Christian People's Party believes in systematic work across the country, so that we can reduce the geographical differences that actually exist. I bring up the proposals No. 6-13.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e990	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e995	Emergency medical preparedness is a foundation for the health care of the people, and it will provide security for emergency health care to everyone in the whole country when they need it. The quality and proximity of emergency functions are important to establish safety and care when helping to cope with emergencies. Norway manages such situations in a large way in a good way, but there are large geographical differences, and there is a need for quality improvement throughout the chain. The emergency selection has delivered its setting through NOU 2015:17, First of all – A comprehensive system for dealing with acute diseases and injuries outside the hospital. They thought it was a particular challenge that health professionals and municipalities tend to centralise their emergency services at the same time, i.e. that one experiences a simultaneous centralisation today of medical services, ambulances and emergency services. They write that long travel time and distance from health services lead to less use even in acute illness. This threatens the political objective of equivalent health services wherever a cage is located in this country. The NOU was well received in the health services. The centre party has been concerned that the government – right on this NOU – does not want to make a holistic follow-up to the Stortinget. That is why we are tabling this proposal for a representative. When it comes to medical services, it is a very important part of public health care in municipalities. The emergency committee writes that their impression is that the medical officer is becoming a weak service in the emergency medical chain: the medical service has challenges with recruitment and staffing and medical visits, and printing is less than desirable. There is little evidence that developments towards major medical care districts and intercommunal medical cooperation have increased the quality of services. One doctor on duty, the closure of medical wards and long travel time to medical care have been a reality for a very large number of residents. With a long travel time to a doctor's watch, the use goes down. The decrease in the use of a medical device is due to time-critical and potentially life-threatening conditions to almost the same extent as less time-critical conditions. The emergency selection suggests that medical care services need to be better staffed, according to the needs of the residents and patients, and that fixed pay for medical staff needs to be used more frequently and in the longer term become the main salary. It will also be able to strengthen the governance of the municipality. The centre party is engaged in medical surveillance and determination in the context. One will not be able to develop a good medical watch service without a stable fixed service. There must be a goal of increasing the participation of the fixed members in medical surveillance cooperation. And our proposal to put forward an action plan on accessibility, quality and competence in the Liaison Service is – for those who do not know – a direct quote from the Sundvolden Declaration. So the government itself has done this, but they haven't delivered on this in the Storting. We suggest that financial arrangements should be made for those who care for the smallest municipalities for their medical care, so that the quality can be equal throughout the country. And we want to verify what's seen as an Acute Selection measure, that's 90 pst. of the population in each medical care district shall have a maximum of 40 minutes travel time to the nearest medical care station and that 95 pst. the population shall have a maximum travel time of 60 minutes. This will ensure that people are provided with an available medical care. So for ambulances: on weekends we heard that the Blackland fire department had to carry a damaged patient to the hospital because one had cut in the ambulance. There are still fewer ambulances on the Norwegian road. Since 2002, the number of ambulances has been reduced by 70, while the number of missions has increased by 42 pst. Only in the last four years has it been at least 10 pst. increased. We suggest that you also attach the recommended printing times here. We believe that these proposals that we are making are good, as these are proposals from a NOU that have received very good feedback in the hearing. In the proposals, we ask that one should work out, for example. this with fixed pay for the medical staff, and we are asking for an appointment for the emergency services. This is absolutely necessary, because they come between the bark and the wood when everyone centralizes each of them in their field. With this, I would like to put forward a proposal No. 14 from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1018	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1023	Emergency medical preparedness is particularly important. This is why, together with several representatives from the Left, the 2015 proposal for a dream promise for emergency medicine, psychiatry and regional health innovation is promoted, precisely because we need to discuss the major challenges we face both in capacity, in quality and also in organisation. The medical team has conducted an investigation into the special medical guard and calls it a emergency in the rear. There's probably a lot right in there. It's a emergency that's not uniformed, they don't have their own play cars or their own uniforms for that part, and they're struggling with a variety of digital platforms. Seven, eight, nine, ten municipalities may be involved in one medical watch and have at worst different health platforms, and it is difficult to interact between them. Recruitment to the medical officer is another challenge. We have to take into account that seven out of ten medical students in Norway today are women. They make it work, they make it work, they do medical work and they make them babysitting, but there may be some challenges associated with it. We need to better facilitate the use of this possibility by the many female general practitioners, because general practitioners are important in the medical profession. Quite a number of medical officers have no psychiatric or mental competence — it is also one of the challenges — and there are other major technological advances that the medical guards between primary health services and hospitals are struggling with being connected to. Practice, training and simulation are another of the challenges we face. So there's no shortage of challenges in this sector. The left wants us to discuss this space between primary health services and specialist health services today. We have counties that can take a greater responsibility, and we see that in dentistry, they both run dentistry and organize dentistry. There is an opportunity to discuss and look at further coordination of these guards. The representative Kjersti Toppe was in the process of development from 2002 until today, a trend in which we have seen fewer medical guards, larger medical guards, fewer ambulances and an increase in the number of calls and needs. Then one has to look at the fact that the Center Party itself put in government for eight years where the majority of that centralization actually happened, and there were many fewer and significantly larger medical guards. It's good that the Center Party sees that this development was a challenge, and that we have something to pick up again, on both capacity, quality and organisation in the future. It is not certain that many small municipalities are the right place to organise medical guards in the future. Then I am very happy that the Left has been given a pass to do a few more pilots related to health care, who can suit the smaller municipalities that are going to cooperate, or also for some city councils. Trondheim has an experiment with some neighbouring municipalities, they're actually building a kind of health guard that's supposed to be more mobile in town, not just a place to go, and that includes more health professionals than just doctors. There is a development Left encounters. We have to look at several of these pilots, and we have pointed specifically to Valdres as an opportunity, there are several pilots. Besides, it's an area that's a good place away from the hospital that's built a new local medical center. We have 12 local medical centers in Norway today, and I ask myself a lot about why we don't have more. It should be one of the answers to future healthcare, where the new counties can well be the actor who has the political responsibility for the type of healthcare. South East is also an example, and it's close to a major emergency hospital, like Elverum. So to the Central Party in the matter of rushes, we have to make an investigation... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1047	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1052	SV will support most of the proposals submitted in this setting. We do that because they are investigated in a major investigation, NOU 2015:17, and because this is a very important area of people's safety and trust in health care, as well as that of course it is a crucial part of the lifesaving business that is going on in emergency medicine – whether that is what is happening at the scene of the crime, what is happening in transport, or what is happening in emergency medical reception or in medical care. There may be reason to wonder why there are no more district medical centers around, but the most important thing now is that we do not lay down more local hospitals, which can be the base for this many places, and that there is an invaluable basis for having good emergency medicine, both on the road and on the hospital, where there are local hospitals. In addition, better medical guards or medical centres where there is no such organisation must be provided. We are going to vote in favour of the proposals that are available. There have been several representatives who have explained to them, so I shouldn't have to say that much about it. We have been a bit in the mood for proposal No. 7 because it's very specific. Sickness of 20–40 sick visits per 1000 population may be a large sloping coin, says – in the investigation – about a development where you use less home visits than you did before, but that it can be a good and absolutely necessary boost to use home visits. So under some doubt, we vote in favour of proposal No. 7, sail if it's so specified that you might need to see if it can be done in a slightly different way. The other proposals are largely to be asked for investigation and follow-up. Then, of course, you have the opportunity to do this when you want to present it, with different assessments behind it. So when everyone agrees with this, it's a little weird that you have to vote against it. The only proposal we are not going to vote for is proposal No. 14th @item: inlistbox It's because we've gone into it, and it's not possible to see why you should have to change some curricula or main goals to get this in place, on the contrary, it's covered within the curricula that are in school today. Of course, it's important that all students from kindergarten can learn first aid, but we don't think it's necessary to go into this and make changes to it. What is missing, either, here too, is a little economic opportunity to put it into practice. We will support all the proposals available, except for proposal No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1069	The government's objective is to ensure a coherent system of emergency services inside and outside hospitals. The population should feel safe to get competent and prompt help in emergency situations. Through the primary health notification and national health and hospital plan, the government provides a plan for the development of services, including emergency medical services outside hospitals. In this area, several action plans and investigations have been submitted, and I believe that we now have enough to implement the measures. The Government aims to strengthen the quality and impose stricter requirements on medical care by means of the Emergency Medicine Regulation. The regulation is well received in the professional environments and provides a basis for strengthening the service. At the same time, many municipalities are concerned about whether the medical services are able to meet the competence requirements. There is also a concern about recruitment to the permanent scheme. A transitional arrangement has been established for May 2018 to put in place the necessary competences. The concerns of local authorities tell me that we should find a good balance between national service requirements and an opening for local adaptations. Several of the Committee's proposals require investigation and will entail increased costs. Based on the hearing opinions, I believe that several proposals are not as appropriate as national requirements. Standards or quality objectives may be more appropriate. The Directorate of Health has therefore been entrusted with the task of setting out quality objectives for medical care. The Executive Board shall also review the need for normative documents in the field of emergency medicine and consider setting up a medical care supervisor. Medical care is a vulnerable service with many sustainability challenges. Good solutions require local authorities to plan their sub-services together and involve other actors where necessary. I believe it is time to think more innovatively about medical care and to facilitate the use of local resources, both public and voluntary, in a better and more flexible way. I have therefore commissioned the Health Directorate to carry out a pilot project with a health care system. OECD figures show that Norwegian results are in the top class for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction and stroke. This indicates a functioning emergency chain. In the ambulance service, we can now provide treatment for patients with symptoms of acute myocardial infarction and stroke. The government will continue to strengthen the capacity and competence of the ambulance service. I believe that the development of the ambulance service should be seen in the context of the actions of the national health and hospital plan and the work on development plans of regional health companies rather than individual action plans. I have followed up the Committee's recommendation to make the ambulance service response times a national quality indicator. I think it is good that the results for response times are now published regularly. Hospitals can then use the results to improve the service. Last year, the first national population-oriented brain impact campaign was conducted. This week we launch the Heart Tester Register, which gives an overview of where the nearest heart starters are located. But we can get even better by more people getting to know the signs of stroke and heart failure, and more people also have to be able to give lifesaving first aid and call 113. We follow up with a national first aid programme, where schools, working life and older people are important areas of action. The emergency aid scheme is part of this work. The Directorate for Health and the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness will provide a guide to clarify the emergency response function. We have a tradition of cooperation between the public rescue services and the voluntary sector, and cooperation with the voluntary sector is defined in a planning and framework – national and local. The Health Directorate is the contact point for non-governmental organisations. In my view, we have established a comprehensive and good framework and procedures for cooperation with the voluntary health care sector, and I do not see the need to develop further plans or strategies. We have good emergency medical services outside the hospital, and the government will continue to work to ensure a coherent system of emergency services inside and outside the hospital, and we will do this by implementing concrete measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1094	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1099	I referred in my post to the government platform, where it says that the government will ‘develop an action plan on accessibility, quality and competence in the care services’. My question is whether the Council of State believes that the government has provided such an action plan as they themselves said they would deliver on the government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1106	We're probably a little bit more concerned with action than with action plans. I believe that we are following up on what was the intention of the government platform through the new emergency medicine regulation, which we have adopted. With the launch of a pilot linked to a health watch system, which the Directorate of Health has been tasked with investigating, it will provide us with new and innovative solutions, probably, for the future. We want to try out new emergency models outside the regular opening hours of the permanent agencies, after 8 p.m. 4 p.m. or after 4 p.m. 23:00. At the same time, the user's availability must be in focus 24 hours a day. In my post I refer to everything that is now going on in this area, and it will involve an action to get a better medical service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1117	Thank you. I didn't want an action plan; it was the government – just to clarify it. But I have a question about emergency workers. The emergency selection problem is their position and responsibility, which is now visible in many municipalities where you may not have a well-developed medical care service and where the ambulance cuts in its supply. Often it's the emergency helper, who's the first in a damaged place, who's being cut out. These are volunteers, they have another civil job, they do it side by side, they don't have the same training, and they don't have the same support device around them when they're in difficult situations. The emergency committee asked for the emergency aid scheme to be removed, I propose it, today it is voted down. What should my council do with regard to this service?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1124	The NOU refers to many good examples of how the emergency aid function can be used in different municipalities. I've also seen that, and there are many exciting solutions. However, the Directorate of Health and the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness will now provide a guide to clarify the emergency response function. Thus, a few more clarifications will be attached to this role – which I believe is also the intention of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1129	Thanks for the answer. The Council of State was in its contribution to the new emergency medicine regulation, which included a set of medical care requirements to ensure quality and competence. The regulation is good, but we all know that for some municipalities, for example, there is a requirement. In fact, the regulation will be able to force even larger medical wards when the transitional regime is over in 2018. What's worrying, professionally, up against it, is that we know from research that a greater distance from medical care leads to people not going to medical care, even in emergency situations. What will the Council of State do to ensure a good system of competence also in small long-distance municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1138	As the representative is involved, we have adopted a transitional period of three years until 1 May 2018, precisely to ensure the basic competence of doctors and operators at the medical centres, and that within five years they will be given the opportunity to receive a course, because, among other things: have challenges with capacity in this area. We expect municipalities to work well to put in place personnel that meet the competence requirements. Then we follow closely the implementation of the regulation, along with the Health Directorate and the KS. I think that now we've given a deadline, and then we're going to follow up on what challenges this might present further, in order to be able to adjust along the way if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1145	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1153	I would like to say a few words about first aid, which has been mentioned here. It's clear that in emergency situations, it's in minutes if you can save a person or if you can't do it. Often we see stories in the media that someone who could help first, has happened to be near people and ready to save them. A story from my own home country: A staggering representative fell outside a training studio. There was a heart-starter, and one could handle that heart-starter, so he survived. So this with knowledge and competence of first aid in the population is very important. Many have gone through such courses, but there are still major shortcomings. Focusing on knowledge and skills on first aid means a lot. The majority of the committee, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, believe that it is important to put in place a comprehensive system of first aid competence in school. It's nothing new, the school's been working on it. But we're internationally leading in this area, and it's important that we keep on being it, and we keep working on it. The Committee also looks forward to the National First Aid Strategy with which the Directorate-General for Health is working. The Council of State specifically mentions in its letter its AMK headquarters and their ability to provide guidance to the public. There was also something that we learned about our visit to Stavanger, that the role of AMK headquarters may have been underestimated, and having the skills to guide those facing someone who has fallen down is incredibly important and means a lot. We are approaching the Passover, and then it is tradition that hundreds of volunteer workers are available to Easter tourists around the country. We have a large voluntary sector that represents a resource in the field of emergency response, not least to be able to handle immediate help. We are very concerned that this good cooperation with the voluntary sector should continue. It's covered in a plan. It's a good routine for that today. Therefore, we do not see the need to develop further plans and strategies in this area, but at least from the pulpit I want to praise all the volunteers who are now going to mountain and help. What they're doing is incredibly important and valuable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1164	This is a very important topic, which means something in the everyday life of all people in this country: having good emergency services and a good emergency chain that takes care of people when they need help, and it says about life. That's why I'm very happy that the discussion has come up, and that we have a government council and a government that's concerned about this, that these are things that you want to do something about. So I feel a little bit that part of the suggestions that are available here is a little bit like turning open the doors. But it's good to get the discussion that we've now had. I think it has been interesting to hear the comments. Of course, I want to draw up at least one Sunshine story, considering doing something about this important area. In Telemark, an emergency chain project is now under way, where you look at the entire emergency chain – from the patient’s call to the first call, to hospitalisation and possibly treatment, and with all the different actors within the municipality, volunteering, etc. It is important to look at patient flow and how patients are treated and given help, until you are at the hospital. I think this is very important and very good, and I want to tell several of the committee members that you should get a little more information about how to work there, how to strengthen and improve the emergency chain, and how to get better at it. Finally, I also want to be in the same position as the previous representative: the level of volunteering in rescue and preparedness in Norway is fantastic. They do a very important job, and you're concerned that you have to appreciate it. I feel that you already have good practice there to do this in a good way. We're going to be very happy that we have those resources. Maybe especially now, as it approaches Easter, they're important in the mountains. But there are also many people who are prepared by the sea and elsewhere, for example. rescue diving, etc., that volunteering carries out, which is an amazingly good offer, of which we shall be very pleased and proud. Then we have to keep working to strengthen the emergency chain, because it's about everyday life and the security of people across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1177	First to the volunteers: it is very important and right that they are mentioned in this debate; they provide a good part of the overall health care in this country. We propose that a voluntary health preparedness strategy be developed. It's basically not something that we, the Center Party, propose, it's a proposal from the NOU. This is important, and we don't have the holistic strategy and the arrangements for it. Then I think it's a little easy to disapprove of the fact that this works so well. We also need to secure it for the future, because it doesn't come of itself. When it comes to what the representative, Kjeseth, was into – it was very good – and that is pointed out: as a medical officer, one runs around in private cars with non-uniform staff and without support staff. Even if there are several arrangements for this in the fixed medical units, one is still on the watch. We have a proposal on that, it's also going to be voted down, but I think this is a way one has to go, and we have to go. The same applies to the proposal for regular medical adjustment, that it should become part of the regulated working time of the medical practitioner. It is the case today that a medical care unit in Norway is the driller of a layman who works overtime, it is outside normal working hours. To the representative Kjeseth: Yes, it is clear that this has happened under several governments, both ambulance centering and medical care. I'm also going to admit that I've been for something larger in medical care, because there's a balance between the guarding of the corpses and what's the need for the patients. I'm not absolutely opposed to medical cooperation, but we know that there is a travel distance limit, and we're forced to decide. Otherwise, I have actually worked both on a medical watch and in an ambulance, so I kind of look at both sides of this case. If we're going to strengthen emergency preparedness in Norway, we're going to have to get the medical system to work and the medical service to work, and then the ambulance service doesn't have to be cut, as we've seen trends in the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1186	I'm starting where the representative Kjersti Toppe ended, because the Left is probably very much in agreement with the Central Party proposal here. When we do not vote for so many of these proposals now, it is because we believe that it is so comprehensive that they should pass a big message and some propositions. There's a lot of money there, so we have to have a priority debate about where we're going to start that escalation, which we have to go through. As far as decision-makers are concerned, they are an important part of strengthening the emergency chain. For the left, we have decided in our new program that we want a ceiling on the number of fixators with lists, 90 pst., and that we need room to have municipally paid doctors in the remaining 10 pst. – to a greater extent that the municipalities take that responsibility. Some can oversee institutions, others can work with Ruspacers, some can work more with medical services — and emergency services for that purpose. However, municipalities themselves must be involved in prioritizing which medical services should give priority to resources not funded by list patients. We talked earlier today about injection rooms and user rooms. It's also part of this emergency chain, because there's a lot of calls out. They also need to be more closely linked, and the challenges around the country are growing. We need to work more with the AMK headquarters. The 17 we have today have done a good job, but now we're in a situation where many of the municipal emergency services are going to switch from analogue to digital centers. There's going to be a much larger number of alarms, and they're going to be handled locally. For this reason, it is particularly important to do some health care pilots in order to develop the competence to handle it locally. In addition, we also need to connect to the Emergency Network Operations Organisation of the Health Service, which is currently behind and supporting under the 17 AMK centres. We also have to put these in the municipal emergency services and get more into a national system. Finally, one of the good emergency helpers that we might overlook is the avalanche dogs. And when we, some of us, go into the Easter mountain, it's important to remember that it costs up to $1 million. To train an avalanche dog, and that's two years of practice. There are no support schemes for avalanche dogs today. We'll remember that when there's a race going on in the Easter mountain.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1199	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1215	I just need to explain a small error that is in the setting. We are not in the committee, but we are in the Stortinget, and in the Stortinget we voted in favour of these proposals together with the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Today we want to vote against I and for II.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1220	That's when it's explained. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1238	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1247	Today, we are going to deal with a bill on family support that addresses changes that aim primarily at clarifying the responsibilities already imposed on local authorities in relation to those who provide special care over and above the usual. There is cross-political agreement that this is important. An overall committee underlines the importance of the work carried out by the relatives and indicates that about half of the overall care tasks in society are carried out by family members and/or related to the recipient of the services. The Committee also agrees that we should have mechanisms and legislation that ensure and value this work. All the hearing bodies that have expressed their views point out that we have a major challenge in providing good and, not least, equivalent offers to relatives who care for family members. Today, the differences between large municipalities are in terms of the type of benefit provided. These differences we need to look at and assess more critically, better than what this proposition adds up to, what we can do to remedy this in the related policy. This means that we also need to look at the patient and user rights law when giving deserved recognition to relatives. We need to assess whether laws and regulations adequately address the concerns of relatives and other related persons who have taken on a high level of responsibility for care. Here, we need to be responsive to the needs of the relatives to care for their own lives, not to be a caregiver, and then we need to follow up on targeted actions. I notice that the government often refers to Report. St. 29 for 2012–2013, Tomorrow’s care. That's very good, because that's good reason. This message, presented in the spring of 2013, by the Stoltenberg II government, was groundbreaking in several ways in the care sector. The Communication had several concrete proposals to make visible, recognise and support relatives, and underlined the importance of better interaction between relatives and professionals in the health and care sectors. Coordination and clarification of existing legislation, as this proposition also states, is important. However, the Labour Party believes that there is reason to point to what many of the organisations that participated in the Committee’s hearing said that the government does not take the necessary steps to really strengthen the situation of the relatives or users. Several point out that the level of ambition of government is far too low in view of the considerable work that relatives do. The Labour Party believes that it is necessary to look at how the obligations of the municipalities, which the present proposal is intended to strengthen, can be followed up by clarifying the relationship between these provisions of the Health and Care Services Act and the rights provisions of the Patient and User Rights Act for those who have a comprehensive responsibility for care. This is not addressed clearly enough in this proposition. We know that the municipalities, for example, manages the provision of care pay or welfare benefits very differently. This suggests that the proposed strengthening of the responsibilities of municipalities, as set out in the bill, should be answered by formulations in the Patient and User Rights Act or in guides and circulars clarifying the rights of their relatives. The working party therefore asks that this be investigated in the further efforts to implement the proposals in the proposal. It's e.g. the possibility of clarifying this right on the basis of how the Law on the Rights of User-Controlled Personal Assistance is designed. Here, the recipient is entitled to receive personal assistance if one has a «significant need for assistance», defined by a given number of hours granted in support per week. Of course, you can also use that template for care benefits, but you can also imagine other ways to do it, for example. with clarifications in supervisors and regulations, as mentioned earlier. That is what we think should be examined in more detail. In our new programme proposal, the Labour Party calls for a national family strategy, where we see even wider and more thoroughly the work of family members and related people who have an additional need for care. That proposal shall be examined and, hopefully, adopted by the National Assembly of the Workers' Party just over Easter. I address the proposals we are promoting alone and together with the Christian People's Party and the Central Party respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1270	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1275	Finally, Stortinget is currently dealing with this law to ensure that relatives receive better support and follow-up of the municipality. Many relatives have demanding care tasks and are subjected to heavy loads. It is therefore important that relatives receive good support and relief and that their efforts are recognised. Last week, the Retirement Alliance presented its survey of relatives, a thinker of an investigation documenting the enormous effort that the relatives are making. The message of the Alliance was clear: the most important thing we can do for relatives is to value their efforts, make their work visible and include them better in the future. Today it's 86 pst. does not receive any financial compensation. 12 pst. are paid for care, and 2,6 pst. I'll give you a allowance. There's a situation the Right Party government is now doing something about. The new legal provision we are adopting today strengthens the legal position of the relatives by clarifying the responsibility of the municipality to provide support to relatives with particularly burdensome care tasks. Local authorities are now required to make an independent assessment of the needs of their dependants and to provide related support in the form of relief, care assistance, guidance and training. We thus ensure that the municipality's health and care services also take care of relatives. The legislative proposal will thus lead to a change in the legal status, and it is therefore not true, as claimed by several, that this is only a continuation of the current law. It is also the case that this legislative proposal has to be seen in the context of the significant extension of the care scheme proposed by the government and the recent position in the Labour and Social Committee. The strengthening of the care scheme is a solid uplift – an annual additional cost of about 560 million. kr. This is a doubling of the cost of pampering people's fear. The number of recipients is estimated to increase by 8 000 to 9000 people, twice as many as are currently receiving care. Talk about lift! Talk about taking parents with seriously ill children seriously. Overall – with strengthened family support in our case and strengthening the care allowance system – our government has improved the arrangements for relatives, which has been in demand and for years. Then it is almost striking that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are unable to enjoy the important and great step we are taking today. Instead, they are promoting new investigation proposals. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV held the relatives almost at an arm's length distance through their eight years in government. They delayed investigating these arrangements and never came up with improvements that really monasteries, as we do now. We have shown that we are doing this, we are giving priority to this, and this will change the daily lives of many people in Norway. When the Workers' Party and the Centre say in their comments that the Stoltenberg II government took several initiatives to strengthen the important work of its relatives, it is tempting to ask for clarification for us others here in the Chamber of what kind of reinforcement they actually carried out. It's not just talking when we know that relatives are the superheroes in healthcare. Several research projects have shown us in recent years how relatives provide a significant amount of service to their closest. Statistically, 100,000 dependants do care work that the public should actually do. For those who are ill, it is also important to know that the family and the closest ones receive support and help to master the everyday life as a relative. It is a fact that long-term and extensive care efforts can increase the risk of health damage. In the Inherent Alliance study, 74 pst appears. of the family members that their own health is adversely affected. The care tasks are so large that it affects the health of the relative. Last week, the government promoted a new bill that strengthens the legal position of children in health and care services. The law strengthens the right of children to participate in the provision of health and care services and imposes on health professionals the obligation to care for children as relatives of siblings and survivors of siblings. For the Right, this is an important follow-up of the recordings we have received from children and young people, but also as a natural extension of this matter we are dealing with today. We look forward to dealing with those laws after Easter. We were told by the representative Knutsen that the Workers' Party wants a strategy for relatives. The question is whether we don't know enough soon. The question is, can we not base this investigation from the Family Alliance and others that document the vast effort and strain of the relatives, and that what we now need is action. In the Right, we are humiliated by the efforts of the relatives, and we are proud that our government sees, acknowledges and appreciates their efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1303	Loved, desired and missing, but sometimes misunderstood, overlooked and pushed away. You and me, all of us are related to someone -- all of our lives, from the day we are born, to the day we die. Being a relative is basically a good role to have – to be able to take care of the person or people you like, to be a spokesperson, to be a little lawyer, when your loved one does not have the strength or the ability to fight for himself. But in this role we will have the opportunity to know our whole emotional life, well and evil. I have through my life, both as a private person and as a politician, experienced relatives who cry, who are despaired, worried and angry, and who have lived for a long time with a high level of stress. The common denominator for them is, in addition to grief, the experience of not being included and taken seriously, the lack of information from health services and the lack of understanding. This is something that this government is doing – not just saying that we are going to. From the moment the government has said that it aims to create the health and care services of users and patients. In that service, relatives have an important place, the overall objective is that all relatives are granted their rights, met with respect and given support and recognition. In several of the communications submitted so far by the government, relatives are lifted up and down. They are seen, and they will be taken into account – in the National Health and Hospital Plan, where relatives are seen as change agents and with it will be the main driver for the renewal and improvement of healthcare, in the Primary Health Service Communication, which says that the service of the future should be developed together with patients, users and their relatives, and that patients, users and relatives should be as important as professionals and politicians in the change work we are now facing, and in the Demen Plan 2020, which has been involved in making. The Government Platform states that the government will strengthen the situation of its relatives through better provision of relief, guidance and a review of the support schemes for its relatives. Many relatives have demanding care tasks and are subjected to heavy loads. It is therefore important to support them in order to facilitate their mastery of everyday life. This is why we are standing here today – to ensure that family support in municipal health and care services is strengthened. Today we decide to oblige municipalities to provide the necessary family support to people who have a particularly burdensome care job. Relatives who take care of their closest shall be met by public services working with them, coaching and supporting them and providing relief when they need it. This legal provision brings together and clarifies the responsibilities of the municipalities towards persons with particularly burdensome responsibilities for care. Municipalities are given a clear obligation to make an independent assessment of the needs of their dependants and to take decisions on measures. We are already in the process of doing this. The Health Directorate has already launched projects for the development of municipal models for comprehensive services for those with demanding care tasks. Overall, this legal provision represents a new and improved legal status for relatives and confirms once and for all that relatives are an important and invaluable resource for people living with disease, disability and/or other challenges, as well as for health and care services. I am proud and happy that we have changed the world a little bit better today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1316	It was said here, and it's quite true, that relatives account for almost half of the total care services provided to users today. They are thus an important resource for the nearest and for healthcare services around the country. Many relatives experience that this effort is not always recognised. We must first recognise this importance in order to see the need for many to also need related support in the form of relief, care assistance, training, follow-up, conversations and valuation. Today's fundamental thesis for many is that human welfare and quality of life are increasing as standards of living increase. This can be true at a certain point, one cannot live a good life if fundamental material and social needs are not met. Nevertheless, the safety of sickness or old age does not mean poverty and social exclusion, necessary for good quality of life. Still, if you are ill, you belong to your flock – one is part of a community. Man has other needs than just getting well, one needs to be part of and belong to a family, have cultural experiences, to mention something. It is here that the individual can meet and meet a need that the public does not always meet. A capable of providing help, but unable to show in practice that he/she is part of the flock. Retired people put down an inescapably important work, and they value the one who is sick, by showing that he/she is part of the flock, of the family. We have to be involved and value this work. We need to realize how important a job is and how important it is to care for many of our sick people. It's best for the users, and it's best for society that we have active and good relatives. The family is a diverse group, which includes everything from children, relatives to children and children who are related. The Christian People's Party, together with the Left, promotes a proposal on how children as relatives can be guaranteed independent rights and good, holistic services. Being small and being related to someone who is very sick is too many children difficult. Relatives to children under 18 are in a special position, as parents of children under 18 are the only family who have a statutory responsibility to provide care. We must not forget that even if they have a statutory responsibility, these care needs, they need help, they need support, guidance and relief to help the rest of the family. The Christian People's Party is also concerned that, as far as possible, seriously ill children will be allowed to be at home with their relatives, with advanced home hospitals. We've done something about it in this growing-up period, but I think we have a lot to do, and that will facilitate the work both for children as relatives and for relatives of children. When it comes to providing related justice, information, guidance, relief and care pay, we don't have to have a low level of ambition, because this means a lot to both patients and the relatives themselves. For many relatives, it is difficult to be briefed in all schemes and in the public systems that exist. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes in one coordinator who can relate to him, regardless of the area of service from which they are going to enter or get help from. The Christian People's Party, together with the Workers' Party, proposes to strengthen the role of coordinator, precisely because this is so difficult for a lot of people – many people say that's what's bothering them. In addition, the Christian People's Party believes that it is important to build up relatives' centres, national drivers, who are involved and help us around the municipalities to do a good related work. The Christian People's Party believes that this bet is good. We, together with the government parties and the Left, have invested in this in Stavanger. I believe that these contact centres can also take a national responsibility, point out the responsibilities of municipalities, and help them with good measures, because we need relatives, and patients need relatives. I am promoting the proposals on which the Christian People's Party is alone, and on which we stand with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1341	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1346	I was the case spokesperson for Meldning in his time. St. 29 for 2012–2013, called Tomorrow’s Care. In this context, we are working a great deal on how to ensure a better policy for all the relatives who make a great and invaluable effort, both within the care of the elderly and otherwise, by taking care of family and possibly others in their networks. That was when this program for a new care of relatives was taken. In connection with the Storing Message, we stated that there had to be a development work against the care pay system, which the Center Party has been a strong driver for all time. Now that we've got this proposition, the Central Party is clear that we are calling for a common and more holistic policy of relatives that provides for new rights and welfare arrangements, including training, support and guidance for relatives, relief for those who are calling for heavy care burdens, financial security, so that they do not become enslaved in a difficult economic situation, if necessary leave, so that they do not lose their right to work or have to be registered in order to be able to deal with their loved ones. We mean that the proposed proposition is not sufficient to ensure this. The centre party will strengthen and simplify the care pay system, and we will make it available to more relatives. Care pay should be a real option and not a consequence of a lack of municipal provision. Allocation and measurement must be carried out in accordance with the same criterion, irrespective of each cage, and dependants receiving care pay must be trained, entitled to relief, sick leavers, good leave arrangements, a fixed contact person in the municipality with a care plan provided as part of the individual follow-up. We make proposals asking the government to present a new proposal for a change to the health and care laws, for family allowances, where the topic of ‘care pay’ is not changed to ‘care assistance’, where there is no common regulation and inclusion in the laws of services and services to which different obligations and legal status are attached. This has also been pointed out by the Health Directorate because both training, guidance and relief are now provided in the same way as care assistance. The first one has a right to get, and the second one has a non. We ask that relief, training and guidance should include all those who have major care challenges, not just those with particularly burdensome care tasks. Then we ask the government to draw up national guidelines, so that care pay is included as a regular provision in the municipality, where a national-tariff standardisation and payment is made, corresponding to a health-care worker's salary, where assigned hours may vary between 25 pst. and 100 pst. We also ask the government to put in place the necessary measures to provide care plans and a contact person in the municipality, with individually organised relief facilities, leave arrangements and security for temporary workers in the event of illness. In addition, together with the Workers' Party, we propose to ask for a legalisation of the municipalities' obligations to children as relatives. The case spokesperson wondered why the Center Party was not any more positive in this case. Now the government itself writes that this is an essential extension and clarification of the current law, and gathers the department to assess it so that ‘the proposal will not have an administrative and economic impact of importance’. Many hearing authorities wonder whether this is actually an improvement or a deterioration in the rights of the relatives. I'm taking up the Center Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1371	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1377	This spring, Stortinget will deal with two important issues relating to relatives as a resource. It's this proposition, about increasing related aid, and Prop. 48 L for 2016-2017, on the care allowance scheme. It is worth remembering that earlier in this magnification period we also have legalized user-driven personal assistance. These arrangements are interrelated. The efforts of relatives cannot be exaggerated, and we all know that we are unable to solve future health and care services without relatives. There is little doubt that it is socio-economically viable to facilitate an increase in related aid. It is also best for the individual caregiver that the network around it is not burned out. A family with a sick and nursing child is under strong pressure and with the greater likelihood of family conflicts, breakups and child care failure. Similarly, of course, the case applies to relatives of adults and older people. Many relatives may end up with sick messages and, in the worst case, disability. Then we know that the costs are running. There is really no lack of money, but there is a lack of flexibility, arrangements and rights for the relatives. We know that the support for the relatives is random and different from municipality to municipality. Relatives report that the fight against the municipality and against the Nav is more exhausting than caring for the caregiver. The same situation has been experienced by many relatives of sick children with the social security benefits in Nav in terms of care allowance, which is particularly true for those children who end up in a grey zone between diagnosis and progressive disease. Therefore, it is good to clarify and clarify where the responsibility belongs, and who can receive support. The extension of the care scheme to cover several seriously ill and nursing children is a step in the right direction, but it only helps a little if there is no more seamless transition to the support that the family must expect to receive in the municipality. I am therefore very pleased that the majority of the committee has clarified that it must be assumed that there are good arrangements that take over in the municipality once the right to care ceases. It is essential that the transition and arrangements be perceived as predictable and safe for these families, and that means that municipal social welfare schemes must be strengthened in the years to come. Many children are also related, and in recent years the awareness of this has fortunately been strengthened. There have been donations to several organisations offering the many thousands of children who have parents with severe mental or drug dependence, and the first centre for violent children opened last year. Hospitals shall monitor and monitor the situation of children and monitor them, and the children’s perspective of Nav needs to be strengthened. But despite progress, we know that many children are not caught. Children who are relatives are little protected in the law today and need to be given a clearer place in the further related work. This is the background to the proposal of the Left and Christian People's Party that the government be asked to propose ‘how children as relatives can be guaranteed independent rights and good and holistic services’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1390	Several representatives have been up and told how important and crucial the relatives are, and I agree with what has been said about it. This work has to be seen and valued, and not least the family must be given better support than they have now. That's what SV agrees with. There are, as the representative Kjenseth said, two things that have been promoted about better support for relatives, and we in SV want to go a little further on some of it. However, there is little doubt that the improvement in the care allowance scheme presented is a major step in the right direction and much better. I'm a little bit more in doubt about this one we're dealing with today, and I hope that it will mean a change, but you can get a little bit more thought about when you see what the government's seas are writing in the proposition, namely that it's actually going to be a little bit clearer about what today's rights are. It could be good. If you do that, it might work better. That's what we're going to hope for. But it might also have some consequences, as the proposition says it doesn't. I guess there's no big revolution when the government expresses itself like that about the text itself. But SV is going to vote for it. Then there is a need to look at the transition between the different schemes in terms of related aid, those that are of an economic nature. It may be more appropriate to extend the care scheme further rather than to set up a care pay scheme, where this is made into a kind of profession for some. We're sceptical about that in SV. What we are very concerned about is that the relatives get good support and get involved in how to provide care. It shall be possible for both the person in need of the offer and the relative to be involved and to have an impact on. For many years, I have met a lot of people – especially parents, but also those who have older relatives, or relatives of people like them. is struggling with severe, heavy mental disorders — which feel that they need to coordinate their efforts, run around and know where the different things are in the public sector and get them to talk together. That's why we think it is very important, the proposal that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have promoted here, to ask the government to strengthen the coordinating role, that is, that it is the public and local authorities and possibly state measures that must coordinate themselves with the sea, and that it is not a task for the relatives to keep track of it. We are also very concerned about what is being said about children as relatives. It's probably been a neglected chapter for a lot of years. Now it is legal that if someone is hospitalized, you should ask if he has children and make sure that they are at least well cared for, sail if I have seen examples of that happening the second day. If he had had children who were alone, it would have been a bit of a crisis if the children were young. Then that means you didn't catch it up the way the system is today, either. There is a great need to look at how children as relatives are cared for. It's incredibly important to do it because children are related, they make up their minds, and many of them have a very demanding everyday life. Then there is reason to boast, for example. Stine Sofie's Foundation and the work they do for children in such difficult situations. It's a very important work. We hope that this bill that we will support will mean a change because it is made clear – as we say – what is the responsibility of the municipalities, but it remains to be seen a little. As regards the proposals put forward, the SV will vote against the proposal No. 6, 9, 10 and 11 and for the other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1407	Relatives are a resource – not only for their immediate loved ones, but also for society. They carry out almost half of society's care tasks. Their effort is approximately 100,000 annual works. They constitute a large and invaluable support apparatus. There are mothers, fathers, spouses, children and friends who care and who are on the move to ensure that their nearest person receives a service offer that is as good and targeted as possible. Unfortunately, many people feel that this effort is not recognised, that their efforts remain invisible and that the dialogue with the service provider is not working. Then it's hard for relatives to be a resource for their closest. We know that many relatives are struggling – they experience health damage, stress and overload. Unfortunately, care for relatives is also about families that are no longer able to do so, about networks that are being torn apart. It is a loss for patients and users, who get a worse offer, but it is also a loss for relatives, who are left with a poorer health and a poorer sense of mastery, and it is a loss for society, which risks shortages of skilled personnel, while increasing care needs are expected. If we are to create the patient’s and the user’s health and care services, we need to create a good framework for care. When relatives want to provide care and the user wants to receive care, health and care services need to facilitate this. The user's history, needs and preferences will often be better known by relatives than the community service provider does. Many relatives also have a long experience of how different services affect those in need. This is a competence that the municipality should value and use. A good interaction between relatives and the municipality can be crucial for the quality of services. This is the background to the government’s proposal to strengthen the family support of the Health and Welfare Services Act. The proposal shall ensure a clearer place for those concerned in the health and care service. The family shall be met by public services which work with them, guide and support them, and which provide relief where necessary. A new obligation collates and clarifies the responsibility of the municipality for those who have a particularly burdensome care job. People in health care are becoming increasingly good at asking the users: ‘What is important to you?’ Now we ask them the same question to the relatives. This means that the municipality’s provision of guidance and training should help the caregiver to provide good care – not only for their immediate persons, but also for themselves; that the municipality should make an independent assessment of the caregiver’s need for relief; and that the municipality should provide care assistance if the user and its relatives so wish; and that it would provide a good and sound service to the user. The family is not a homogeneous group. Some relatives are not to provide very extensive care. This applies primarily to children who have sick parents or nurses. Children shall receive care; they shall not provide. If parents or guardians are unable to meet the needs of their children, public intervention is required. When children are related, it is particularly important that health and care services also meet their needs. We know that many relatives want more predictability in everyday life. They want to ensure that both the user's and his own needs are met. At the same time, relatives have different needs, different desires and different prerequisites for providing care. Support for relatives must therefore be flexible enough to adapt to the different needs, but concrete enough to ensure predictability. This is a difficult balance sheet, which cannot be resolved by legislation alone, but which must be based on a dialogue with those concerned. In the work of reform Life throughout our lives, we're going to do just that. We need to have a direct dialogue with users and relatives and get their input into action. That's how we're going to create the patient's and the family's health and care services. Living your whole life will not least be about how we're going to get a better interaction between relatives and municipal health and care services, so that relatives can do what they want, that's to be related, but without the task of being a relative in the end becoming so big that they don't want or want to do more.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1426	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1431	This proposition is intended, as the Ministry also says, to strengthen the provisions of the Health and Welfare Services Act for municipalities with a view to providing assistance, support and relief to non-usual care-providers. This is an obligation that already lies there today, but nevertheless we see that there is a problem with e.g.: what has been mentioned several times here, that care benefits are practised so differently. That is why the Labour Party has proposed an investigation that looks at the Patient and User Rights Act. That is what the government parties will vote against. Then I ask the Council of State: does not the Council of State not see that it may be necessary to make changes to the patient and user rights law, so as to respond to what is now strengthened in terms of duty?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1438	This new provision obliges the municipality to provide the necessary related support in terms of both relief, training, guidance and care assistance. However, this obligation reflects the patient and user rights law § 2-1 a and thus makes clear both the rights of the relatives in relation to the municipality's health and care services and the obligations of the municipality in this area. This case has been promoted and is closely linked to the strengthening and improvement that is also done by the care allowance scheme. That's what's been embossing these things for a long time, not least in the eight years before we got into government, when these two things went back and forth, and one after the other was investigated. Now it is time for us to strengthen these arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1445	Discharge rights are unlikely to be important for those who take on burdensome care tasks for their loved ones. It is a well-known case that there is a lack of a portion of day-time activity places for those who are home-built older with dementia. The expansion has gone too late for years. The size has allowed resources, but they are not used. There are several years in a row that the funds go back to the state. We have evaluated in different contexts what we can do to get the municipalities to build up. Besides imposing the obligation on municipalities, what will the Council of State do to speed up the development of day-to-day activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1450	I share the opinion of the representative. I also find it frustrating that the Council of State repeatedly grants money for day-to-day activities in the municipalities to which the Stortinget subscribes, but where the money is not spent during the year. The government and the Stortinget have decided that it will be a legal obligation to offer this from 2020, which the representative was also involved in. In the context of the 2017 government budget, the size has also said something about the government looking at this scheme to see how we can achieve greater success and reach the municipalities in order to establish more day-to-day activities, and that is something we are now working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1455	I have to ask a little about what the proposition says about economic and administrative consequences, because it is a little difficult to understand how this should be both a strengthening and, nevertheless, ‘a continuation and clarification of the current law’, and that it will not have any administrative and economic consequences of importance. When this is described, it is said that it could affect the demand for services to relatives. Is it so that the government has assessed it so that the municipal sector has got money to do this, but they haven't? Is this what this right here means? It's a little bit difficult to figure out what the government really means by what they write.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1460	I think it's popular – that's a good description. We believe that the municipalities should have done this before, but that the obligation provision may not have been clear enough. Some of the municipalities we know clearly have not done this, and therefore in a way now the legal link to this is strengthened. The duty is made clear, but that's something we think – and I also think a broad majority in the Biggest has thought – should have actually been done. So I think it was a good description the representative gave.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1465	But I'm afraid that these municipalities mainly want to do more, but they have to choose between other things they can't do. Does the Council of State see that there may be a need to strengthen the local economy in order to get a better care for relatives, and that maybe, in sum, it would finally come out with a plus?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1471	Yes, the government has also significantly strengthened the finances of the municipalities, but the representative is involved in something very important: this law is about particularly burdensome care tasks, which we initially believe the municipalities should have done themselves, and when relatives do it instead of the municipality, it is really so that the municipality probably saves considerable resources on this. So that the municipality fulfills these obligations – strengthens the role of its relatives, provides them with training, relief – is a cost that is significantly less than the one that is for the municipality, that is to say to solve these tasks itself, for which the municipality has a duty. That's why I believe that this is less about generally strengthening the municipalities' economy; it's about making the municipalities conduct a policy in this area that's good for the municipalities' economy, but also good for relatives and good for the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1476	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1483	I chose to take the floor again, because I wondered very much about the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen's understanding of the Labour Party's position on this matter. I must have looked seriously fast as I stood here and presented the case-rapporteur’s post – it may well be – but it’s not like we’re voting against this proposition, we don’t do that in any way. But we've made some proposals that we think would have improved the proposition and the intention in it if we had got a majority for it, but it doesn't seem that we get it. We believe that it is important to clarify and strengthen obligations towards relatives. I believe – as also the representative Andersen – that what has been put into Prop. 48 L, if care allowance, which is dealt with by another committee, is also important. We support the proposals there, but we also take some steps to make that proposition even better. So let's do that right over here. The reason why we do that is, among other things, that we listen to the organizations seagoing, and we think they are very credible. Both the Organisation of Disability, the Cerebral Parese Association and the Association of Nurses warn against believing that there will now be automatic equal treatment and equivalent in municipalities. There are many loose threads, even after the Storting adopts this proposition – we have to admit that. We have tried to ask for clarification in the Patient and User Rights Act to be investigated. I fully agree with the Council of State, which talked about the fact that right-wing parties have their sides, which don't always turn out the way we think, but we want an investigation where one makes it clear and says something about how this can be operated also with a right at the bottom of relatives, patients and users. That's what our intention is. And we've listened to those who wear their shoes and who know how this works. The obligation has been there all the time – just as the municipalities have managed this very differently. Then we also have to look at the second law. We support the proposal and the proposals in it, but we have made proposals because we have listened to the organisations, which can do better if we get a majority. But unfortunately it doesn't look like it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1494	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1510	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1519	Norway has a well-developed health care system, and we're going to be in a range of areas when we compare ourselves to other Western countries. Most patients, users and relatives are happy with health and care services, and we also have good treatment results for a number of serious diseases. Treatment in the healthcare system will always be at risk. Accidental events, errors and missing events may occur, but the risk can and must be prevented. That's how we can get a health and care service that's even safer, and build confidence in the population. The government has now submitted the third annual quality and patient safety message. This means that we can have a debate on this issue in Stortinget, and that's good. The notification summarises and compiles the status of quality and patient safety work as reflected in annual reports and reports from patient and user communities, state health services, Norwegian patients’ compensation, Health Directorate’s notification system and national and international quality indicators and comparisons. The material for 2015 shows that there are challenges in many of the same areas as in previous years. There are ongoing challenges related to communication, interaction, competence, learning and leadership. In this case, the Committee is largely in the configuration. We have arranged a wide range of hearings, and we underline in the setting that it is an important overarching political responsibility to ensure quality and patient safety in the services. Even if we come out well from an international perspective, especially when it comes to heart attacks, strokes and certain cancers, we cut worse than other countries when it comes to drug use in the elderly. Weaknesses have also been identified in the coordination of treatment after hospitalisation and that it takes too long before necessary information is provided to the general practitioner. The annual message from the patient and user environment also provides important information. They indicate that there are many people who are in contact with poor and inadequate information and communication, and they also believe that the fixed medical system needs to be evaluated. Omboda is still concerned about the provision of health care in Norway, as they were last year, and they are calling for concrete measures to ensure that the healthcare provision in Norway complies with the patient and user law, the guarantee of dignity and the quality regulation. This emphasizes to the Committee in the setting that we are some in. Patient and user environment also specifies that patients must be able to handle their complaints. In the case of the State Health Authority and the State Staff, the Committee refers to the nationwide supervision in relation to the outsourcing of patients, and calls for both short-term and long-term measures to ensure better cooperation and information flow through outsourcing. The Committee also refers to the lack of risk assessment and patient safety related to the introduction of new methods, change of tasks and the transfer of functions. It is not least important now when assessing functions in local hospitals, for example: It is also a reference in the committee's position on the supply of people with co-morbidity and mental illness. The Committee also refers to the two major issues in the media — ‘glazed girl’ and the monitoring of mental health enforcement by VG — and points out that we need to be able to trust that supervision actually reveals bad practices in services. The Committee also draws attention to the importance of freedom of expression. 44 pst. hospital departments have a climate that increases the risk of patient injury. That is clear to the Committee. We will also review and re-write unwanted variations, which have been a specific theme in this message. In the setting, there are no suggestions, but I assume that the Council of State and the Department read carefully what we are doing, and that we can contribute to patient safety and quality work in the Norwegian health care system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1540	The annual quality and patient safety notices are important. They give a picture of the status and challenges seen from different points of view. Everyone has a responsibility for the development of healthcare in accordance with adopted policies, and that we use resources to ensure that it becomes good and equivalent healthcare for all. Openness is absolutely essential. Norwegian health services are basically good, as the rapporteur also pointed out. It is important to bear in mind when, in such a communication, we bring forward the areas we think should be improved. Variations in health and care services have been raised in the year’s notification. There is variation both in quality and in use. I remember the Committee's first meeting with the Health Inspectorate and remember the clearly stated consideration that it was the same institutions that went back from supervision to supervision and that had the same deviations. It's not durable. We have to put in place a culture of change, and that might be the biggest challenge. After almost four years in the Health and Welfare Committee, we have seen from our point of view that it takes time to build it up and build good structures – and build it up under such a culture. New reporting areas and quality indicators are constantly being developed. Some of the most illustrative, and which brings out the variations especially for us as big-scale politicians, are the different health atlases developed in recent years. Health-Norway has gradually gained a better basis for discussing unwanted practice variation, but the most important thing is to create, as I was in place, a learning culture and get good change processes. On the last committee trip to Health Stavanger, we got a good and convincing description of how they had taken action to create just such a learning culture. At reception, they have introduced new methodologies and set aside time for systematic reflection — the word ‘reflection’ was repeated many times — and they described how they had improved practices precisely on the basis of that systematic approach. It's about good management, proper prioritisation and being knowledge-based. Health professionals are under pressure. Most people who train as health professionals have their own drive to save lives and to help people. It's kind of not the bottom line they're looking at first. We must therefore be extremely aware that the actions we take to improve quality become user-friendly at all levels and limit reporting, so that they are able to prioritise what is important. There is still a great difference between the knowledge we have about the quality of healthcare in hospitals and in the community health service. It takes time to create a knowledge base for primary health services similar to what we have for specialist health services. Variations in use of BPA are problematic, and we look forward to the follow-up evaluation to be carried out during the year. Patient and user representatives have for several years pointed out that both service, patients and relatives have insufficient knowledge of rights, which weakens the legal certainty of perhaps the most vulnerable people. Oversight of the elderly living in the home with extensive assistance needs shows an ongoing lack of dignity, care, trust and security. It is desirable both for individuals and for society to provide healthcare so that it is possible to live in their own surroundings for as long as possible. The number of older people is increasing, and the picture and level of function are becoming more complex, while at the same time we see that municipalities are lagging behind in the competence of many of their employees to meet this challenge. In the further development of health policy, there will therefore be a major need to give priority to the provision of community health services and, in particular, to increase the competence of large sections of the community health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1563	This is the third annual report on quality and patient safety. In this Communication, there is an undesirable variation in the focus of healthcare services. I have to say that it is great to get such a message. It provides incredibly good overviews, and the figures that are here, and the studies that have been done, provide a very good basis for further development of health policy. That being said, Norway has a good health care system. An overall committee refers to it. We get better when we compare ourselves to a number of countries. Studies suggest that patients, users and relatives are satisfied with health and care services in Norway. However, we know that healthcare treatment is associated with risks, and it is known that adverse events and deficiencies occur too much. The health atlase and the children’s health atlase tell of geographical differences and variations. Day surgery has been shown as an example in the health atlas, and the use of outpatient services has been shown as an example in the children’s atlas. It can be asked whether there is an equivalent offer in the country when there are so many variations in treatment. The Committee is now aware that the material is not representative of everyone and that it can give a too negative picture of the situation. However, it shows at least a number of risk areas where more action is needed. For most areas, there is insufficient knowledge of the correct and correct extent and level of healthcare, e.g. in the case of surgical procedures. We know that when we focus on variation in intervention, there is nothing said about the quality of the individual intervention performed. Further research and analysis is needed here. But it is a cross of thought when the removal of almonds occurs twice as often in Finnmark as at St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim – then there is reason to ask some questions – or when children living in Westfold are hospitalized twice as many times as children who go to Oslo University Hospital. We need to look into that further. We must not forget that the OECD report ‘Health at a Glance: Europe 2016’ shows that the health status is good, as I have said before. We have an expected high life expectancy and low mortality after heart attack and stroke. Norwegian health services are better than average, and we have low self-reported consumption of tobacco and alcohol, although I know that the Minister of Health believes that it is too high and works to reduce it. We all agree. We have good results in cervical cancer and breast cancer, and we are actually the best of the OECD countries in terms of survival. That's what the report shows. But the deviations I have mentioned require action. Better management, culture and systems to promote culture and patient safety are essential for the further development of healthcare. The Ministry also promotes better management, culture and systems, while at the same time organising healthcare around the patient’s needs. So it's not the systems, but it's the patient. We have fine examples that by focusing on it, attitudes change, among other things. there are very many people at the hospital who do not get their dinner at noon. 13.30, but that actually gets its dinner when most people eat dinner, around 1:00 p.m. 16:00, 5:00 or 6:00. That gives you better quality. Similarly, we need to be much better at using all the available knowledge we have. We are developing several quality indicators. We have a lot of web portals. New research is constantly being published, and the Patient Safety Programme ‘In Safe Hands’ provides a lot of information on where healthcare is failing. We have also received a new regulation on management and quality improvement. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in It deals with both specialist and municipal health services — that’s good, because when it comes to quality and development of quality systems, it boils down to management and how the manager develops healthcare. It's good that the report focuses on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1580	For the third time, the government presents a separate communication on quality and patient safety. It is reassuring for the Storting to get such a message from a government that it has shown that it puts the patient in the high seat, both by realizing the patient’s health care and by including the relatives to a much greater extent than before. It is reassuring to know that Norway as a whole has a solid, well-developed and well-functioning health system. No matter how much time, power, technology and resources we add to the health sector, we will unfortunately always find some story, communicated to us via the TV screen, the newspapers or social media, about people who have experienced anything other than the sun of our health system. Such is always bad to see, such is always bad to read. And that's one of the things that drives me further in this work, that's the struggle to continuously improve our health care system. That is exactly why the message we are handling today is important. It advocates strengthening the policy management focus on the quality and patient safety work of all our health and care services. It deserves users of the Norwegian healthcare system, it deserves relatives, and it deserves employees. Although the Norwegian health system is well located in a number of areas, compared with many other Western countries, adverse events occur. In fact, being treated in the healthcare system could be associated with risk. Therefore, continued focus on quality, safety and patient safety is also important. And that's also why the matter we're dealing with now is important in terms of the future health care system. Communication is a diverse theme in the Norwegian everyday life and debate. It's all about communicating, whether it's from this pulpit, via newspapers, radio and television, or on social media. But there is one particular type of communication that we must never fail in health and care services, and that is the interpersonal -- the communication that occurs in the meeting between people, the one that is usually sick, the other that is there to help. It is important for security; it is important for correct information to be recorded and passed on. Communication, interaction, competence, learning and management are identified as challenges in this year’s communication, just as in previous years. Therefore, a Joint Committee points out that this notification must be followed up in the annual work carried out by the Ministry for Health Enterprises and Municipalities in order for the notification to have a value in itself. So finally, a little worry and a little joy. First, to the gamers. It is a problem that there is a very long waiting period for some permanent doctors. We know that it is harder to recruit doctors in some areas of the country than in others. But no matter where you live, the uncertainty is felt if you get to the firm before many weeks have passed, as demanding, even if you don't have a life-threatening suffering. It's possible we need to think about this area. So the package sequence for cancer. In Norway, about one of three any form of cancer. That is why I am pleased that this government has introduced a package for 28 different cancer diagnoses. And it is good to see that patient and user representatives support the implementation of this and see that it contributes to more effective treatment processes. Patients also feel safer and more secure than before. It is also gratifying that we now know that two out of three people who get the diagnosis of cancer actually get healthy and survive the disease attack.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1597	Quality and patient safety are something we will never finish or learn — or something that will expire on the date of the Norwegian health system. We would never have had the results of a heart attack or a stroke if it hadn't been for a systematic work, a cooperation over time. One has made common criteria, made standards, and made the different levels of service work together. One became better, and a achieved quality. This Communication summarises the status of quality and patient safety in the overall care service in 2015, as expressed by various supervisory bodies, patient representatives and user representatives. It's about trust and reputation. In many areas we are far ahead. In other areas, we have potential for improvement. Some of the issues that have remained over the years are related to communication, interaction, competence, learning and management. It's almost incredible -- we know that these are the very points that have been good for us, and that have made us get where we've come from in terms of heart attacks, for example. So we always have to ask, why is this something that's still hanging out? We've recently also seen programs, especially at the NRC, where a different patient group that doesn't feel well is experiencing events that have happened in the health care community. The Christian People's Party believes that we still have to work systematically here, and it is good that we get this message every year. There are some issues that go on and on and on. It is important to have good and correct reporting procedures, alerts and follow-up and, in particular, to have a willingness to learn from deviations. Ensuring good documentation is important both for those working in the healthcare system and for those who are patient and user. The Committee notes that deviations related to clinical processes and procedures, such as observation, treatment and care, constitute the major part of the notification, as well as medicinal products management for the elderly. You can ask yourself why. Is it about competence, busy guards, getting people, sicker patients? We need to know more about this in order to put the right measures in place. The Christian People's Party, together with the Committee, is pleased that quality indicators have been developed, which can be used to improve and manage quality. The Christian People's Party has said on many occasions in the last four years something about medical staff in Norwegian nursing homes, where we see the deviations, where we see that there are problems with drug management. Patients who are very ill, who have many and complex disorders and many kinds of medications, often share one doctor. There are even large geographical differences shown in this report. Sometimes it's just 50 pst. of patients in the hospital who have received medical supervision in the last year, or 33 pst. were supervised by a dentist. This is not good enough. We have to look at that back carpet and be willing to prioritize. It is also a paradox – as several have said here – that the undesirable variations in specialist health care are a quality issue. Are we somewhere sicker than anywhere else? Is it true that at some point we might be overtreated and have faster operations than elsewhere? What is the risk in this? This is extremely important to achieve, because it is not correct either with over-treatment or with under-treatment. The Christian People's Party, along with the rest of the Committee, believes that concrete action is important in the risk areas we are now seeing. It is necessary to build trust in reporting non-conformities, to use deviations to learn and, not least, to take measures to reduce risks and build quality and patient safety at all levels of our healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1618	These annual reports show us that there is a lot of good things going on in the Norwegian health system, but also that there is a lot of room for improvement, and not least that it should be possible to do so, it is necessary to use more of the community's resources, both in the community health service and in the specialist health service. It takes the consequences, and therefore we are increasing budgets in these areas rather than spending resources on what the government has prioritised, for example. treasure bill. Every year these messages come, and they tell us there's too much variation between municipalities. There is also one reason why SV wants both eartags and statutory clarifications in several areas. User-controlled personal assistant is one of the areas where the government has put in place some improvements, but where there is not enough quality and similarity of this offer yet. So it has to be ensured. These reports tell us that patients and relatives have many rights, but that they know about them, and get the information they want. There is a repetition in these reports. So what do we do with that? Sick home is a repeater, and the Stortinget will now get more suggestions from SV at that point, among others. that we want to implement human rights in the care of the elderly. That is what is needed, and the Stortinget has voted down before. We also need to bring up the crew, because it is not possible to implement the quality requirements that we all agree on, without sufficient, sufficient and qualified staff present in the nursing home or home care. There is also a need to implement different types of trust reforms across healthcare. Notice is a theme that is up every single time, and there we all say that you should have a management culture that should have patient safety and quality in focus, while some reports show that it can even be a fear culture in some of our hospitals and elsewhere. A year ago, the Minister of Health was commendable and said that there was no need to explain or paint. You should get the facts on the table, because we have to deal with that, and then we have to control it. We need to do that because it's infiltrated some management cultures inspired by American New Public Management's management models, which have nothing to do with care and health at all, and which makes you get these structures that make you need more warning, and that you don't get a true picture of what's going on. I think that's very devastating for the good ethics and the good competence that almost everyone who works in our healthcare system has. We have to make sure that it is used in the best way possible, and that we do not have to impose laws that impose violence on professionalism and ethics. User involvement is also one of the points that goes over and over again. There I want to draw attention to what is called the User Control Center of Hamar, which is a low-threshold offer within psychiatry. There they have prices both for users and for employees in different parts of the government, where they simply learn to talk together in a way that makes both parties understand each other. There's a great need, because of course it can be difficult to communicate with someone who has a very high level of professional competence in his field, and see what it's like for someone who's in a completely different situation, who might not know what's wrong, or who doesn't even have the name of what's the problem. Being able to talk together and have user involvement, which is actually user involvement, and not like that, "Come and talk to us, and we'll listen to you, and otherwise we'll do what we originally thought." There is no proper user involvement. Finally, there is also some talk about over-consumption of drugs and their side effects. That's one of the reasons why we need these staffing standards, so you get the care you need, and not the medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1633	Three times this government has provided a communication on the status of quality and patient safety in healthcare. The examination of the annual notification has therefore become an established practice and once again an overall committee is behind it. I am very pleased, and the Committee's way of dealing with this communication has helped to make it the objective, which was an important tool for the Storting as the top responsible. We have invited a broad and open debate through this annual communication, where quality and patient safety are regularly put on the agenda. I would like to thank the committee for that. The aim is that such regular status messages should also stimulate systematic local quality improvement work – for the benefit of patients. The government is systematically building the patient’s healthcare. A cornerstone of this construction is quality and patient safety. We can safely say that the Norwegian healthcare service is at the top of the world and achieves good results. Norway is high in the survival of diseases such as cancer, heart failure and stroke. We're good at dealing with accidents and injuries, and most patients say they're satisfied with the services they get. As in the first two notifications, this Communication also describes challenges, as expressed in the 2015 Annual Reports of the Patient and User Ombudsmen, the State Health Authority, Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation, the Health Directorate’s notification system and national and international quality indicators. The Committee highlights its concern about parts of the municipal services, in particular the provision of health care facilities. The government has been working on a quality reform for the elderly, Life all its life. Work will focus on the basics that most often fail in the provision of elderly people, both at home and in hospital: food, activity and community, health care and the context of services. We will present a big message on the reform in spring 2018. The reform shall be undertaken nationally from 2019 onwards. The Committee has also noted the concern of the patient and user representatives that cancer-packaging processes may have consequences for the provision of other patient groups. I don't share that concern. On the contrary, I believe that in the long term, package trajectories will be resource-efficient and that experience will benefit other patient groups in order to facilitate new treatment processes based on similar models. We already see this in several of our hospitals. In this third message, we have chosen to have variation as a theme. Although the health and care services in Norway are generally good, there is an increasing variation in the number of areas that we need. The health care reports published in 2015 revealed wide variation in day surgery and treatment of children. But not all variation is unfavorable. Differences in age, morbidity and patient needs may be due to variations in the provision of services. In municipalities, local policy priorities can also contribute to different design of services. In areas where specific objectives are set on the basis of professional guidelines or legal requirements, it is particularly important that healthcare services follow their compliance with the objectives and contribute to minimising variation. Examples are the cycle of cancer and emergency medical services requiring response to medical emergency numbers. The professional environment and management of municipalities and health enterprises have an important role to play in analysing the causes of variation and in putting in place measures to combat unwanted variation. Within the specialist health service, I have followed up this with requirements in the mission document for both 2016 and 2017. I think it's a very central challenge in the future to reduce unwanted variation. With this message, we prepare the status and summarise the overall challenges. It concerns communication, interaction, competence, learning and management. Systematic efforts to improve management, culture and systems are essential for meeting these challenges. We're working on that. We have now established a new regulation on management and quality improvement for healthcare, which entered into force on 1 January, and the guide to the regulation is ready. The aim is for the management of municipalities and healthcare companies to take greater responsibility for systematically working with quality improvement and patient and user safety. The regulation will be a very good tool in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1652	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1657	‘Family members with comprehensive assistance needs need to be provided with adequate assistance independent of the municipality of residence’, it says. We fully agree on that. Some of the challenge is that there is extensive municipal discretion in the care field. The question is simply whether the extensive municipal discretion in the field of care prevents an equivalent and qualitatively good provision of care, and what the Council of State sees as possible action to balance and provide for a more equivalent offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1663	It's a very big question, which can't be answered in a short row. This is throughout the discussions that the Storting has in this area. We have chosen to say that the municipalities should be fully responsible for these services, precisely because you have had a basic belief that the municipalities are best suited to see the overall offer, and not least to do the local priorities. At the same time, we are in more and more areas and control the municipalities in the direction that Stortinget wants, for example. as we have done with the rights attaching of user-driven personal assistance, as the government is now doing with the new law on competence requirements, which was promoted on Friday. So I don't think the answer to that question is either yes to one or yes to another, I think it's about finding the right balance between the two considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1668	It might be an idea to look at whether the health field and care area should have about the same discretion. Today, in the field of care, there is a considerable increase in the ability to exercise judgment. I think it's a challenge in terms of service provision. The councils were now in on this with BPA, and that was my next question. It is quite clear, as a report has stated, that unfortunately, for many, the municipality of residence is crucial for what kind of offer – or not offer – a sheep tied up with the BPA. Then there's an evaluation going on. My question to the Council of State is: When is that evaluation available, and what does the Council of State think about continuing to ensure an equivalent BPA offer regardless of the municipality of residence?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1675	Now I can't track memory when the evaluation is going to be ready, but I think it will be during this year. I share the representative's concern. We have made a circular to the arrangement that I believe is very good, and that very clearly takes into account what was the Storting intention. I also have the impression that there are challenges related to whether it is used well enough in the municipalities. That was the reason why I personally wrote letters to all the country's rapporteurs recently and made them aware of this, with copies also to the statesmen, in order to get more attention to what the Stortinget actually wanted with this scheme directly from those who are the top political leaders in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1680	In this setting, the Committee notes that the most alarming aspect of the Health Authority’s report is that there are wide variations in the way serious events are followed up in health care activities. I refer to the report ‘Patience culture in Norwegian health companies and hospitals 2012 and 2014’ from the Health Directorate, which shows that patient safety culture indicates to what extent routines, postures and actions contribute to preventing unwanted events and patient injuries, and that at least 44 pst. by Norwegian hospital departments have a climate that increases the risk of patient injury. I've asked the Minister of Health before what measures the government has here, but now it's been a while, and I want to ask again, what is the government doing now to ensure that there's a problem in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1687	I was involved in the regulation that we implemented now from 1 January, and that sets a very clear requirement for management at all levels related to that type of question. So to the specific problem that the representative raises. I have commissioned health regions in the 2017 mission document to come back to the way they will systematically work on this issue. They'll come back to me before summer, and I'll look at the measures they describe there. These are actions to be established in cooperation with trustees, and they shall also establish reporting systems on how the culture of the business is linked to dialogue with employees and trustees.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1694	I also have a question about variation, which has been a special theme in this message, and that's good. One thing is if a patient is injured, but if he is injured by a treatment he does not need, it is twice tragic. Governments don't want to use the word over-treatment, but it's part of the variation. We have just received a national audit report showing that the DRG code system connects to input-driven funding, IFS, according to the National Audit Office, is not a robust system that should be brought down to department level, because it could lead to error priorities and possibly over-treatment and thus also unwanted variation. The question is: Will the Council look at what funding can contribute to an unfortunate variation in Norwegian health services, and why not, if appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1701	It is important that the funding system also underpins the proper prioritisation and professionalism of the service. I am not of the opinion that it is right to reinforce the importance of the funding system for this, on the contrary. What we do, among other things, look at the possibility that the funding system will finance the entire patient cycle to a greater extent, and that a patient will address it instead of some parts of a trajectory. That's the kind of thinking I want to substantiate in the patient's healthcare. The DRG system is not designed to have funding at department level; it is a system designed to have funding from larger units in large hospitals or regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1708	We are quite a few that ISF wasn't going to be taken all the way down at the department level, but the point is that it's happening pretty much everywhere. There is nothing hospitals have to do, but they can do it. When the Council of State is so clear that this is not something that he, as I understand the answer, is a follower of, will the Council of State and the Government then ensure that one cancels the bad practice – also in the light of the report of the Riksrevision – where one continues IFS down to the department level? Would he be able to put a stop to it from the government's side? Will the Council of State contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1719	We have a continuous review of funding systems. As I said, we are now engaged in looking at how the funding system can more fully support patient progression. It'll be a big problem. We are also very clear in communication with health regions that the DRG system is not designed to finance at department level. The Ministry finances one at the level of health regions, and the different health regions and health establishments choose different funding models. However, regardless of the funding system, it is important for management to pay attention to the fact that good professional practices are to be the leader. I do not want to help reinforce the impression that it is the funding system that is to govern the professional practice in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1724	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6 and it's ringing for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1742	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Left the proposals No 2 and 3, from Kjersti Tops on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for amendments to the law on drug injection facilities, taking into account the following considerations: [[Spray Room Act]] the law changes the name from the law on the system of drug injection facilities to the law on the system of drug-injection facilities; [[Spray Room Act]] [[user room law]] opening for multiple routes of administration than injection; it opens the possibility for substances other than heroin to be consumed, based on an assessment of the target group of the action and the substances used; it is open to make other changes to the law as a result of the above points and as a result of experience gained with the spray room system since 2004.’;» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1781	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the injection rooms established to be actively used to intensify prevention and to provide for the diagnosis and treatment of hepatitis C in users.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The Labour Party and the Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1800	President! I voted, but the vote was not recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1805	President! On an incursion I was going to vote wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1810	That is to say, the votes must be 52 votes against and 48 votes against for the proposal of the Central Party. The proposal is therefore not accepted. There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the IDU Act and the IDU Regulation to allow for the inhalation of heroin in injection rooms.’ The Labour Party, the Left and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1845	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is calling for the strengthening of low-threshold mental health services in municipalities by promoting a five-year municipal mental health escalation plan, which includes earmarked funds during the escalation period.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1871	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to establish a low-threshold mental health service for children, young people and families in all municipalities. The measures can be implemented through the establishment of the family house and/or other easily accessible services. Services must be multi-disciplinary and cross-disciplinary in order to ensure good and complete services for children, young people and families.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1904	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–5, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 6-13, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party proposal No 14, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an increased level of knowledge on first aid through further clarification of the main objectives of first aid and life-saving first aid in primary school, as well as through the introduction of concrete and obligatory objectives of competence for first aid and life-saving first aid in the secondary training body.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1933	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the light of the Committee’s report, the government is asked to set the national standard for the medical officer to carry out 20-40 visits per 1000 inhabitants per year.’ [[NOT 2015:17]] The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e1950	The proposals are then put to the vote. 6 and 8-13, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘In the light of the Committee’s report, the government is asked to submit an action plan on accessibility, quality and competence of the permanent services.’ [[NOT 2015:17]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘In the light of the Committee’s report, the government asks for permanent pay and extended use of permanent posts in medical care and for medical care to be part of a regulated working time.’; [[NOT 2015:17]] Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting, in the light of the report of the Committee of the Regions, that all medical wards should have available emergency vehicles with support staff and that no one should work alone on guard.’ [[NOT 2015:17]] Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘In the light of the Committee’s report, the government is asked to introduce a national requirement for 90/95 per cent of the population to have a maximum travel time to the nearest medical centre of 40/60 minutes.’ [[NOT 2015:17]] Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘In the light of the Committee’s report, the government is asked to submit an action plan for the development of a decentralised and highly professional ambulance service in Norway, with regulatory response times.’ [[NOT 2015:17]] Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that requirements for joint emergency medical plans between municipalities and health companies are laid down in a future revised emergency medical regulation in the light of the report of the Committee for Acute Medicine.’ [[NOT 2015:17]] Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘In the light of the Committee’s report, the government requests the inclusion of all establishments in the municipal health and care services and in the specialist health service in the accident reporting system.’ [[NOT 2015:17]] [[including non-health care]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2000	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1–5, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘In the light of the Committee’s report, the government is asked to provide an action plan to increase the capacity, competence and quality of medical care.’ [[NOT 2015:17]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for various state support schemes to stimulate the establishment of good medical practice in district municipalities with high distance challenges, in order to ensure patient provision and preparedness throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In the light of the report of the Committee on Emergency Affairs, the government is asked to draw up a voluntary strategy for health preparedness and to submit it to the European Parliament in an appropriate manner.’ [[NOT 2015:17]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a national first-aid strategy with the motto ‘A Programme for Lifelong Learning’, and to promote it in an appropriate way for the Stortinge.’ [[NOT 2015:17]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘In the light of the report of the Emergency Committee, the Government requests that a wide-ranging sample be set up to investigate further the functioning of the Emergency Aid Scheme.’ [[NOT 2015:17]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2066	The President has taken the view that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2090	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2118	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 3 and 4, by Tove Karoline Knutsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 5-7, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left the proposals No 8 and 9, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No 10-12, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2142	First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to promote the necessary measures to offer care plans and contact persons in the municipality, individually organised relief services, leave schemes and the safety of sickness temporary workers.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2159	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Ten and eleven from the Center Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present new proposals for changes to the Health and Welfare Act in which: [[rearrest, etc.]] the term ‘care pay’ does not change to ‘care benefit’; no joint regulation and designation is introduced into the law of services and offers to which different obligations and rights are attached; the right to relief, training and guidance includes all those concerned with major care challenges and is not restricted to those with particularly burdensome care tasks.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up national guidelines so that care pay is included as an ordinary provision in the municipal health and care service for particularly burdensome care tasks for children and adults. Nursing pay must be strengthened and standardised and paid at a national rate corresponding to health professionals where hours allocated per week may vary between 25 per cent and 100 per cent of full-time employment.» [[time rate]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2193	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to submit proposals for the retention of entitlement to pay for care.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2210	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish an Advanced Home Hospital for children in all health regions.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2227	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose a common minimum rate of care pay, as well as national guidelines ensuring geographical equality in the scheme.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2245	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider how to bring aid, care allowance and care pay together into one state scheme to ensure the simplest and best possible regulatory framework.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2260	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals on how children as relatives can be guaranteed independent rights and good and complete services.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2277	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to explain how the obligation for municipalities to provide care benefits can be followed up by clarifying in the Patient and User Rights Act the right to such benefits for dependants/companies with extensive care responsibilities.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the economic impact of a common minimum rate for the care aid scheme and to assess national guidelines with a view to achieving greater geographical similarity in the scheme’.» The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2301	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to enforce the obligations of the municipalities towards children as relatives.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2318	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the strengthening of the coordinating role in the form of obligatory national requirements both for the coordinating unit and for the coordinating role, and through enhanced powers to ensure the implementation of multidisciplinary actions and individual levels.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2447	The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2460	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2474	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-06.ana.ud513e2697	And I'm sure there'll be more. We're not going to be unemployed. This is the last plenary day before Easter. The President would like all the representatives to have a really good Easter celebration, with a good opportunity to shine over his or her own constituency or that of others. Even if we do not have a ‘holiday’ in our vocabulary in this House, the President will hope that there will be some good and late days for all the representatives, and wish everyone back to work well on Tuesday, April 18, at 6 p.m. 12th@item: inlistbox Really good Easter to everyone! As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
