ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e54	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For East Agder County: Lene Langemyr For Akershus County: Are Health and Anne Odenmarck For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen For the Rogaland County: Marie Liones Breek An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Kåre Simensen from 21 March until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative Ingalill Olsen is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It is also considered to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e104	The representative, Marit Arnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e109	On behalf of the representatives of Liv Signe Navarsete, Janne Sjelmo Nordås and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a stronger effort to achieve the goal of 10 TWh energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e114	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e119	On behalf of the representative Kjersti Toppe and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure that patients have access to emergency hospital with trauma function if transport time to trauma centre is over 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e124	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e129	On behalf of representatives Karin Andersen, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself – again, I have to say almost – I would like to propose to ensure that palm oil-based biofuels are not sold in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e135	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will then refer to the Stortinge Rules of Procedure § 37 that the Stortinge negotiations will be terminated by the third Friday of June at the latest. This year the third Friday in June is already on 16 June, and with the expected amount of the case in an election year, Stortinget will need some more time to complete the case. The President will therefore propose that the first paragraph of Section 37 of the Rules of Procedure be waived and that the Spring Session of Storting be extended until Wednesday 21 June. Does anyone object to this? It has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e146	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sylvi Graham. – Other proposals are not available, and Sylvi Graham is unanimously elected president of the current Stortinget meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e168	We in Norway know a lot about how to combat poverty, how to strengthen development. We were a lukewarm country that was able to build well-being, so yesterday we were awarded the world's happiest. The fight against poverty and for development was also led by fighting for women's rights. Yes, in fact, for Norwegian welfare, gender equality and women's participation in professional life are far more important than finding oil. One of the first things to be taken into account when getting proper parliamentaryism in this country – or when Left took over power – was to combat maternal mortality. It was done primarily through public education and midwifery. While the left took over, almost 700 per 100,000 live-born children died, the number 700 was 20 years later reduced to 300. Around the turn of the century, Norway was among those in Europe who had the lowest maternal mortality rate. Abortion has also been a tough and difficult discussion, but all new research shows that abortion legislation does not affect the number of abortions. The only thing that works to reduce the number of abortions in a country is three things: it's the supply of prevention, it's sex education, and it's gender equality. That's the three things that get the abortion numbers down. In Norway, through our own gender equality campaign, we have gained a lot of knowledge and experience. We have shown how molestation and female health have been important for both prosperity and well-being, and that the gender equality struggle has been important for development up to becoming a happy country. We know how it affects families in poor countries – and what it means – losing their mother in pregnancy or losing their mother during birth. That is why equality has always been an important part of the fight against poverty. When the UN was established and the fundamental human rights were put down on paper — common to all countries — in 1945, Eleanor Roosevelt had made a great effort to ensure that women's rights were also an important part of human rights. We got the world's first women's conference in Mexico in 1975, and we got the Women's Convention in 1979, which Norway was among the first in the world to ratify. Similarly, we had women’s summits — both in Copenhagen in 1980, in Nairobi in 1985 and in Beijing in 1995 — that were part of my generation of girls. Now we see that there is a UN summit on women. And we see that the progressive equality struggle that has been going on ever since Eleanor Roosevelt and ever since we started with women's rights here in Norway, is now starting to face great resistance in many parts of the world. The conservative forces are on the rise. They've organized themselves into an alliance called Friends of the Family. There you find a good mix of countries like Saudi Arabia and Iran, along with countries like Russia, Poland and the Vatican State. This has antiabort and pro ‘family’ – so-called – on the agenda. Various religious groups are mobilizing together. Young people receive training in this kind of thinking and are bused into the summit. Trump gave marshalls to his civil society that this was what was supposed to be the main job of the United States into that meeting, at which he signed the Global Gag Rule. The image of Trump, surrounded by men only, who sign this, made the Guardian editor write on Twitter: No matter how long you live, you'll never see a picture of seven women signing a law on what to do with their reproductive organs. We see that prohibitions and restrictions do not cut in number of abortions, but actually only lead to more dangerous abortions. The World Health Organization has estimated that about 830 women die every day for pregnancy-related reasons, which could have been avoided. Often families lose their mother, and when we know how important that mother is to all the children in the family, we know what the consequences are when Mom falls away. 99 pst. of all pregnancy-related deaths occur in developing countries. Every year 22 million unsafe abortions are carried out. It is one of the leading causes of pregnancy-related death in women. With this background, I have some questions for the Prime Minister. I know that the Prime Minister has been very engaged, for example. in education for girls. Now that we see that the anti-progressive fraction is well organized and is working hard against those countries that are concerned with gender equality, my main question to the Prime Minister is: How does Norway meet this situation? For example, I see myself. It is important that we also organize ourselves, that we also ensure that more people on our team are actually organized on our team. I'm afraid that all of Africa can end up in the conservative block because we're not active enough. The government has told them to compensate for the 85 million SRHR cuts that the United States has made. kr. I think that's very good. But the questions are, how are we going to follow up on this in the next few years? Where are we going to take the money from? Are we at risk with this cut in terms of global health? Health stations, the basic infrastructure, are one of the most important infrastructures to save the health of women and women. This is one of the reasons why the Left has been somewhat skeptical about the way some of these vaccine programmes are organised, where the basic infrastructure is not provided, but only provides for vertical vaccination programmes. Therefore, the basic infrastructure is very important in the future, and it is also one of the foundations for the health of women. In 2015, the United Nations Member State adopted 17 global sustainability targets. Two of them are equal. The question to the Prime Minister is, how are we going to be able to keep the pressure on women's rights and ensure that they survive in a world where we see that they are increasingly under pressure? How will Norway contribute to the composition that is put together, called She Decides, where the Netherlands, Denmark and Sweden have been initiators, to be a counter-power for those who will now reintroduce Gag Rule? How should Norway contribute to the promotion of women’s rights in the international arena and through bilateral talks? Can we strengthen efforts also for women in the field of assistance? Can we think strategically, with the strong position Norway has in international aid, to organise women's rights in a good way? During this year's UN summit, economic freedom is one of the headlines. We know that women perform 75 pst. of unpaid work of the world, while only 51 pst. is allowed to participate in the labour market. In all the countries of the world – in all the countries of the world, I have to point it out – women have lower wages than men. One billion women are outside the banking and funding system. They can never raise a loan, they often do not have an account. In 150 countries, there are regulations that prevent women from participating in business. In Russia, for example, 450 jobs in which it is decided by law that women cannot participate — in order to protect women’s health. In Argentina, for example, they have a law of its own saying that women are not allowed to produce or sell alcohol. If I started to mention the Arab countries' legislation against women's participation, I could go on much longer. We know that violence is involved and prevents many women from taking part in the workplace. We know that women are economically independent in a household, they have 45 pst. the reduced risk of being subjected to violence. Economic independence is with and strengthens their human rights. Education has been a very important investment for this government and for the Prime Minister. There she has full support from the Left. How are we going to be able to keep that pressure up when we see that especially in the fight for girls' education is organizing itself against us? Summary: How are we going to be able to organise an overall effort to strengthen women's rights in all areas when we now see that we have strong forces against us internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e200	I'm upset by the injustice that girls and women are subjected to in so many countries. That young girls get married when they are young is unacceptable. That girls often go less years in school than boys is fundamentally unfair. It is totally unacceptable that girls and women often cannot control their own lives or their own bodies. Therefore, the fight for equality is an important priority for Norway. We defend women's rights in all relevant forums. We are a political, professional and financial supporter of those who fight for women's rights. The commitment to sexual and reproductive health, including work on safe abortions, is a high priority. We have set up our assistance to support gender equality, not least by doubling support for education. I want to establish that Norway is and will continue to be a strong champion of women's and women's rights worldwide. I share the concern about the reintroduction by the United States of the rule of not funding health care organisations that include information on abortion in their work. This will primarily mean a reduction in access to prevention for the poorest women in the poorest countries. Reduced efforts will obviously lead to more unwanted pregnancies and thus more unsafe abortions. As announced by the Norwegian authorities, we are increasing the support to actors affected by the so-called ‘oral basket’ rule, by 85 million. kr. At the same time, it is important for me to stress that Norway’s efforts in this and other areas are not and should not be a response to the US aid policy. We must shape our aid policy and our efforts on the basis of the considerations and priorities we believe are most important at all times. Some of the increased funds will go to the work of the UN Population Fund on victims of sexualised violence in crisis and conflict and to strengthen women's right to sexual and reproductive health in Syria and neighbouring countries in particular. Central international non-governmental organisations will be invited to apply for support. The award criteria will be performance and efficiency. I am concerned that our aid money will reach out and become important to the individual woman and man. Minister for Gender Equality Horne represented the government at the International Conference She Decides in Brussels on 2 March. It underlines the importance of mobilising more people for increased financial support for the work on sexual and reproductive health and rights. The promise of increased Norwegian involvement was well received in Brussels. It is important for me to stress that the global image of equality is not unequivocally negative. It's going too slowly, but it's actually moving forward. The share of women in the world's parliament has increased from 12 pst. to 23 pst. in the last 20 years. Although it has now slowed down a little, it is also a positive trend. In some regions, female participation in the labour market has increased. In recent years, laws that discriminate against women have been abolished in many countries. Violence against girls and women in close relationships has been lifted out of private space and has become a public issue that is punishable in most countries. Work on gender mutilation and child matrimoniality results in several countries. Norway has been the main supporter of UNFPA and UNICEF programmes. The Norwegian direct aid for the work against gender mutilation was above 70 million. kr in 2015. On March 1st, I met the Norwegian Somali nurse Safia Abdi Haase, to learn more about her amazing work internationally and to talk about how we best move forward in this fight. On 8 March, the Minister of Finance and I launched the government's strategy against gender mutilation, forced marriage and social control. The objective must be that the national strategy and international efforts undertaken by Norway can have a mutually reinforcing effect. It's from the small and big advances we're going to learn about what works. Some are working to weaken what was achieved at the Cairo Population Conference in 1994 and at the Beijing Women’s Conference in the following year. We who have been with a while in the fight for women's rights know that these documents are still the global gold standard for equality. That's why they're so important to fence around. Luckily, however, there are also more and more countries, including the United States and Japan. in Latin America, which stands for equality in international forums. Negative forces have not developed in their efforts to weaken women’s rights standards. On behalf of women, I am impatient. We can't just watch over what's done – we have to move on. The government aims to further develop the normative framework and to continue to promote women’s rights. We're working for sexual rights to have the same international status as reproductive rights. We work for the right to abortion and for women to have the same right to divorce, citizenship, inheritance and property as men in every country. We use a lot of channels to get results. We are promoting equality issues in the UN system, in the Council of Europe, in EU/EEA cooperation and in Nordic cooperation. The UN is a particularly important partner in gender equality and reproductive health. The UN Population Fund is working on assembly, family planning and sexual education. In 2016, we paid 401 million. kr in core support. The same has been granted for the current year. In northern Nigeria, where Boko Haram is suffering from sexual abuse and violence, UNFPA has deployed over 400 qualified trauma therapists and established 11 crisis centres for women and girls. In addition, they contribute equipment to health workers to ensure that childbirth is safe, that victims of rape are treated and that prevention is available. In this work we must also draw on private forces. The Norwegian company Laerdal Medical has, among other things: developed a birth simulator to help train birth helpers in poor-resource countries. Their equipment is distributed in over 70 countries and makes a unique contribution to safer births for mothers and children. The UN Women plays a key role in assisting national authorities in cooperation with civil society, so that global standards are also reflected in national laws and plans. So we're going to get 75 million. kr in core support of the organisation. Let me give you a few examples of what our support has meant: The UN Women's work in women, peace and security in Burundi has engaged over 500 women. These averted about 5,000 small and large local conflicts in one year. In Iraq, UN Women has brought together 230 women's organisations with different religious and ethnic backgrounds to work together on national reconciliation and the fight against violent extremism. These measures mean that women avoid abuse, that girls and boys can go to school, and simply that everyday life can go its own way. That's what I would call peace building with a gender perspective in practice. The greatest betrayal of the world's women is not the lack of norms or declarations, but the lack of implementation of the government's commitment to women's rights. That's the responsibility of the governments themselves. This responsibility must be taken as a result of pressure from the country’s own population and implemented by the country’s own institutions. Although work on gender equality needs to be done by countries themselves, Norway can contribute. We use funds to support countries in making promises of action and services that matter to people. I would like to remind you that this year we are setting up the LIKE programme – equality for development. It contributes with Norwegian experience and competence to support the implementation of gender equality obligations in partner countries in the south. In Europe, Norwegian EEA funds contribute to underpinning fundamental values such as democracy, non-discrimination and gender equality. It contributes, inter alia, to: to combat violence in close relationships and to improve the combination of working life and family life, to reduce the wage struggle between women and men and to establish crisis centres. In foreign and development policy, we prioritise the education of girls, the economic and political participation of women, the fight against violence and the promotion of sexual and reproductive health and rights. Education is mentioned. Education is an important core part of this. There has been considerable progress in recent years in the number of school students, but we know that girls are still being treated worse in the education system. We cannot talk about the situation of women without addressing the conflicts we see in the world. The extremists have attacked women's rights as part of their strategy. ISIL is a rough example of this. That's why we have, among other things, contributed with more money – 50 million. kr – to organisations working for victims of sexualised and gender-based violence among minority groups in Iraq and Syria. We have strengthened the organization of Raffo Prize winner Yanar Mohammed, organization Women’s Freedom, in Iraq. There's a lot to do in this area. Norway shall continue to be an active partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e234	I want to start by thanking you for the answer, and then I want to thank you for the Prime Minister actually coming and responding. It says something about the priority, and I think that is an important signal to this matter. Then I notice that there are actually two men in the hall, and I hope that some of them too sign up, so that this doesn't just become a lady's debate. The Prime Minister is quite right that not everything goes in the wrong direction, especially when it comes to legislation. In fact, more countries are improving abortion legislation than countries are exacerbating it. The challenge is that some of those who go in the wrong direction are those who are close to us – our closest ally, the United States, is going in the wrong direction. And we see countries around us, like Poland, which was probably the last state visit we had on a state visit day, and Russia, which may not feel so close right now, going in the wrong direction. And we see that within extremism a woman uses very actively in her identity building. My follow-up question to the Prime Minister is: Should we not also have a role in organising the good forces, and not only observe that things are not going so bad in all countries, but that we are recruiting in several countries? I'm really glad that Councillor Horne took part in the She Decides meeting, but we should also put in the power to recruit more countries to our wing in this fight. Then I think what is said about supporting women's organisations is important. I also notice from the Foreign Affairs Committee's travel that many of those who are working to take out the quota refugees that we have, after all, said we should accept, often take out women who have dared to stand up to the system, and who are high on the list of those to whom Norway is willing to provide protection through the Refugee Convention. I think it's a good signal to give when we're going to pick out refugees. But the challenge here is whether we really manage to organise the good forces in a good way, at least when we notice that the countries that are close to us are moving in the wrong direction, and when many of the countries that are moving in the very good direction, for example. parts of Africa, not as well organized as we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e245	I fully agree that we are going to help organize, but then the question is always: how is it to be organised? We have helped to organise a women's network against extremism. We met about this in the autumn, during the UN General Assembly, where we helped to extend this network and connect even more closely, and that it should be able to work across. This means that Norway, together with other countries, helped to organise the forces to counter and work internally in other countries for the rights of women and the extremists who want to keep them away from education and who contribute to recruitment to extremism. In that way, I believe that much of what we're already doing contributes to this, and we're going to do more of that. There is no doubt that what we call liberal values in the international community is under pressure right now. Liberal values are about respect for human rights, they are about international trade, but they are also about equality and women's rights, and they are about sexual rights for those who have a different line than being heterophiles. It's under pressure, and it's a project in several countries that's kind of anti-Western, and it's also linked to Western values. We must therefore build the alliances with the groups in the countries. If the counter-argument is that these are western values, it's not that easy to get out of here and force it. Then alliances must be built internally in the countries. That's why I believe that the women's organization of the UN, UN Women, and the Children's Fund are important institutions that work in a different way, that work in the countries and that don't have the same alliance. We have to make sure that there are enough countries that are helping to finance the measures that lie there, and then we will continue the work that Norway has done for a long time and that we have now intensified, related to extremism. It's organizing women's groups and helping in the areas that we're now doing, among other things. when we give the Rafto Prize winner more money to help women who have been subjected to abuse — there is a massive assault on women, especially in the minority population in Syria and Iraq, but also in a part of their own women’s population that has remained — and help is needed to help. What's the problem for these women is that not only have they experienced ISIL and other abuses, but they get outcast when they come back, because they're dirty to, they don't get respect, they have children, they might have had children after rape. That's why it's important to work on building up these civil structures – help with that. This is a bit of what we use EEA funds for – we have worked systematically over many years, for example. in order to establish crisis centres and to have a different focus in countries that traditionally may have a different view of family violence than we think is right, and where supporting crisis centre movements has been an important part of building a civil society robustness against the changes that we are now seeing ideologically addressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e255	First, thank you to the interpellant, who addresses an important topic. Two weeks in March, women and men are gathered in the UN to discuss women’s rights — or lack of rights. The CSW Women's Conference in New York was so lucky to be here last week. I heard exciting posts, strong posts, sometimes for women from all over the world, and I also got to discuss women's rights and opportunities with others who were present. Theme this year was women's right to work, which unfortunately is not always a matter of course. Many of the stories made a strong impression and show that it is a long way to go before women have the same rights as men, that violence and threats are too often used, that women's wages are too low – much lower than men’s – and that women have less protection, less economy and are most vulnerable to war and peace. Unfortunately, equality has come very short in many countries, and we also see it being threatened and put in reverse. There is a lot of good work done by non-governmental organisations and fire companies, and Norway, together with the rest of the Nordic region, is being presented as good examples. But we also have a way to go, although it cannot be compared to the challenges that exist in many other countries. Because we know that we haven't gotten far enough, that it's going too slowly, and that the equality here is iced up. We have too much violence in close relationships, and wages are not equal for women and men here either. Nevertheless, we have stronger and more rights than many of our sisters in poor countries. The future is already determined when a woman is born. Heavy work, duties, early marriages and childbirth are commonplace. Many have low education, and the professions offered to them are often hard physical work. They have little income or income outside the regulated labour force comparable to slavery. Unfortunately, the risk of trafficking and serious exploitation is common. In poor countries, exclusion, assault and forced marriages are commonplace. If we are to solve it, women must first of all have the ability to determine their own bodies and their own lives. Women need to be able to control their own sexual lives, and therefore the sexual health information that many grassroots organisations do is so important. When Trump cuts down on the support of these organizations, women are hit. When morals become the leading star, women are hit first and foremost, for freedom to control their own lives really means economic growth and development. Countries with high occupational participation of women also have strong economic growth. Therefore, these organisations need to be supported in order to provide good information. They must be able to have the economy in place, for it costs to be filled professionally, to provide adapted materials and equipment and to be available. Training takes time, and it costs. Girls need to be able to obtain education and training and participate in policies, gain knowledge of reproductive health, hygiene and social skills. These are all things that we should integrate into all our development policies in the future, and we need to make that clear. The vaccination programme, such as the Skei Grande attack, has improved health provision in general and has also contributed to health care and prevention. We believe that it is important to support the government's work on vaccination, because it improves the provision of health for everyone. The Prime Minister has spoken extensively and warmly about girls and education, in line with UN Objectives 4 and 5. Health must be linked to education, equality with both. I hope that the Prime Minister can also say something about whether it is being carried out in her goal. When Trump cuts support for women, there is an extra great responsibility for us in Europe as donor countries so that this important work does not stop. Norway needs to take its responsibilities and follow-up, so that we contribute to the continuation of its work. When women's rights are weakened, including in Europe, we know that we are responsible for putting it on the agenda in all the forums to which we parliamentarians have access. I also expect the Prime Minister to give notice to his government. We in the various parliamentary organisations have the same responsibility. Equality, rights and measures against violence and threats are just one of the things we should have on the agenda. When the SRHR reproductive health network in Stortinget, together with the European network of parliamentarians for reproductive health, signs protest letters to Trump, it helps to raise the issue. We must be active and visible. The UN Commission on Women is an important institution for developing policy principles to improve the position and rights of women. Networking is being set up, challenges are being identified and possible solutions are being provided. That is why Norwegian participation is so important, and that is why the Minister of Finance might also have to be there. This concerns attitudes, but also economics and what we can contribute from Norway. It must be we who have the opportunity, it is Norway and the Nordic countries that have to stand in front. Who else is going to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e288	As mentioned, right now, the United Nations Women's Commission, CSW, is meeting in New York. It is organised annually and is one of the most important international meeting places to discuss women’s rights and gender equality. The Women's Commission is mandated to follow up the action plan of the 1995 UN Conference on Women's Rights in Beijing. Every year, a major theme of this conference is on the agenda, and this year's theme, women and the economy, is also important in view of the UN's sustainability objectives. Strengthening the financial position of women is essential for their achievement, but still remains a part of equal economic opportunities for women and men. According to the World Bank, there are formal barriers to economic equality in more than 150 countries. This includes, inter alia: laws restricting women's employment, property and inheritance. There is cause for concern and renewed effort on this topic. The inter-pellant is right in that it is such that fundamental rights are increasingly threatened. Things we in Norway look at as natural are not everywhere, very close. The rule of mouths and the attitudes of the new administration in the United States are one example, as explained by the interpellant. As a result, our Minister for Gender Equality went to Brussels and attended the She Decides conference, and the government put 85 million on the table. kr to support it. But also in our close neighbourhood and in the rest of Europe, we see increasing attempts to restrict women's rights, as the interpellant also mentioned. 13 years is not long, and thus, by 2030, the world has ratified to end all forms of gender discrimination. Norway is serious about women’s rights and living conditions, but neither we nor any other individual country can win this fight alone. We need to use our legitimacy to create understanding and build alliances, and I expect – as the interpellant – that we actively and continuously discuss with like-minded countries how we can jointly meet situations that have arisen after the reintroduction of the oral curve rule – the Gag Rule – not least, but also developments in general. Norway is at the forefront of equality. We prioritise the education of girls and the economy of women and political participation, the fight against violence and the promotion of sexual and reproductive health and rights. We continue to ensure that it is not undermined by established international commitments to women's rights and that they are respected. We have to be the drivers of new commitments on sexual rights, the right to abortion and equal economic rights. In the aid we have, for example, to refer to important initiatives and results. Our strong commitment to education in aid policy is largely geared towards girls. During this period of government, many billions have gone to educational activities where the training of girls and young women is an important element. About 70 pst. by Norwegian educational assistance, the focus is on the education of girls. Now the challenge remains to get the girls to start and complete high school and high school. Priority will be given to the future. We have raised women's health, including: in the Global Initiative ‘Every woman and child’ launched by the Prime Minister in 2015. Norway is the largest contributor, with 600 million. kr per year for the period 2015-2020. Norway has also contributed to strengthening the provision of health to women and children through the Commission for Lifesaving Medicines and has contributed to lower prices, increased availability and increased use of lifesaving medicines. Equality and economic development are mutually reinforcing. In the World Bank, Norway supports the development of business models that contribute to the strengthening of women’s participation in agriculture, the extractive industry and ICT, and we give particular priority to financial services for women. We support, for example: Nordic Microfinance Initiative, where the overwhelming share of microfinance recipients is just women. We also support the ILO SCORE programme for local business in eight countries. 30 pst. by the participants in the programme who have been women. The fight against gender mutilation is an important part of Norway’s efforts for girls’ and women’s rights, and we are today one of the largest contributors worldwide. The earmarked effort for this has increased significantly, and we support UNFPA and UNICEF programmes in this regard. Norway is making an internationally groundbreaking effort to promote gender perspective in the fight against violent extremism, and we are promising the perspectives in all forums where the topic is discussed. As the Prime Minister pointed out, and as she also said, the work is probably slow, but it is going forward, and it is allowed to be impatient in this matter. That is why I thank the interpellant for this interpellant and for this occasion, and I thank the Prime Minister for the good answer she gave to the interpellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e303	Let me first also thank the representative Skei Grande for taking up the interpellation and the Prime Minister for a thorough and good answer. Interpellation is based on the International Women's March of January 21st this year – the day after Trump's inauguration as President of the United States. We were many who responded to his disrespectful mention of women. We were many who responded to the idea of banning entry for Muslims. We were many who reacted to the denial of the climate problem. And we were many who were afraid cut in family planning and help or else. They're asking if all the cuts are going through Congress. There are often major changes from the first draft budget women in Congress have finished painting. From the Norwegian side, we should use the opportunities we have to influence the new administration in the United States. Work to improve the situation for women and for gender equality globally is an important and long-term task. It's part of the work on human rights. We also have unresolved challenges in Norway, but there are women in poor and war and conflict countries who are the hardest outcast. We have a strong tradition of working internationally for the rights of women and for equality. Equality is at the heart of the international agenda. It needs to be done to achieve the UN's resilience target. Over time, we have had a number of action plans for the rights of women and for equality. The last, from the autumn of 2016, has five main objectives: ensuring inclusive and fair quality training for all girls and boys ensuring that women can participate equally with men in political life ensuring full economic rights for women and equal participation with men in the labour market abolishing the choice and harmful practices directed at girls and women; promoting the sexual and reproductive health and dishes of girls and women The Christian People's Party has been a champion of education for girls every year. It is a key to improving the situation and rights of women in several areas — in the family and in the community, in working life and in politics. Knowledge gives power. Education brings development. We must fight against violent and harmful practices, be child marriages, forced marriages or assaults against women as part of warfare. Prevention is the key and a legal society that punishes and supports victims. The legal situation of girls is poor in Islamic states where the sharia law-given testimony from men is more times greater than that of women. This means that electors escape, while women are punished. We cannot accept that kind of wrong. The work for sexual and reproductive health is literally vital. Better baby and mother health saves lives. There is a horrifying high mortality around pregnancy and births in several of the poorest countries in the world. Yes, in South Sudan, in fact, it is more likely that a 15-year-old girl dies in pregnancy than that she enters the secondary school. A good health service could have prevented many of these deaths — among both mothers and children. In fact, the UN’s thousand - year - olds helped to speak for maternal mortality on a world scale down by 44 p.m. It has our lifesaving. American family planning assistance is now at risk. It is then important that we increase the opportunities for multilateral actors working in the fields of reproductive and sexual health. This applies, for example: The UN Population Fund, and we are increasing, inter alia: this through the 2016 budgetary agreement. Such assistance must, of course, take place within the framework of national legislation in the recipient countries. Spreading HIV/AIDS frames poor girls, not least in sub-Saharan Africa. Both in the 2016 and 2017 budget, we were given increased privileges to the United Nations AIDS programme. For a long time on the Norwegian side, there has been a wide dissension about this international work on women’s rights and equality. It should still be, because human rights apply to all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e349	Thank you for taking up a very important matter. Power and control of the sexuality and body of women and girls are among the most powerful symbols of power worldwide. Culture, religion and tradition are on the loose for women, who are abused in everything from family politics, cultural struggles and religious struggles to international major conflicts. Unfortunately, we have seen that this fight has had serious setbacks. Trump's presidential order to ban State aid to organisations that inform about safe abortions and prevention is to play Russian ruleet with the health of poor girls and women. Norway then has to take a lead in the fight to reverse this and also to assist more. The oral basket rule also shows that this is an attack on freedom of expression, which is also an important human right. Working for safe abortions saves lives. I don't think we can get to say that many times enough. Lack of safe abortion offers does not result in fewer abortions; it results in more dangerous abortions. It shows all the experience and figures of the United Nations. So this is serious. In several countries that have taken women’s health seriously in the past, among others. Poland and Portugal, we see that women's rights are now under pressure. Several countries have been mentioned here, Russia and many more, where these conservative forces are now on the rise. And the women have to pay the price. Norway has been a priority country for women’s health. When SV sat in government, we increased the effort and took up protests against cutbacks and fortitude, which also happened then. It has to be because abortion is taboo. Someone has to dry to talk about the taboo, because the taboo takes life. And there's no line of land ready to talk about these girls' and women's business. That's why I encourage the Prime Minister to become even braver, even clearer, even stronger and even better to give priority to this, because it's about saving lives. Norway must tackle the brutal policies that affect women around the world. The Prime Minister said in his reply that what we are doing, not just should be a reaction to what the United States is doing. No, it should not – it should be because we also believe it is important. But it's important to make it even clearer now, precisely because it happens in the political situation we're in. It is good that the Prime Minister tells us to strengthen the UN Population Fund. It's just so sad that it needs to be strengthened from a level where the government first cut. It is good that the government was at the conference She Decides and said we should allocate 85 million. So for several years you had cut 60 million. kr from already until this work. And then you have been on the wrong course for some years. It is incredibly important that Norway now takes a leading role and also does as the Prime Minister says: build up among those organisations that also work locally. How will the Prime Minister ensure that key individual actors such as The International Planned Parenthood Federation can continue its work? They work together with local people around the world, and also in one of Norway's focus countries on aid, Mozambique. We know that in Mozambique, 60 pst is based. of the 2017 budget for financing from the United States. Therefore, the rule of mouthwashing will have serious consequences in one of Norway’s focus countries in this area. What does the Prime Minister want to do with that? Will she put special measures there to defuse this as we see happening? There must be appropriations over several years, not just an additional allocation in 2017. It is a long-term effort, and it is also necessary to cooperate with civil society channels. Norway has to increase the aid, not measured against the 2016 level, for the appropriations that had been cut both from other countries and from Norway. Norway needs to increase its influence on strategically important governance and positions in order to raise this issue in the future and promote the right to safe and lawful abortion. We have to work with like-minded countries, because this is going to be pretty hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e373	I would first like to thank so many of you for joining the debate. It was probably the Prime Minister – and not me – who helped us to have a women's debate where almost all the parties think it is important to participate. I also want to say that I value what the government has done in terms of sexual mutilation and forced marriage, but it is also important in what is happening now, that we not only focus on what is most remote, at least when we see that we have close allies and friends going in the wrong direction. I agree that the vaccine programmes have evolved much better. It is not a vertical health structure but a more horizontal and broad health structure. Because what's important to remember is that one of the important factors in bringing Norway out of poverty when we were a poor country was just a decentralised midwife service and a hygiene campaign among women where you learned not to spit on the floor – or all that you did in many households at the time. I had sailed a grandmother who was part of the awakening when it came to hygiene, which was one of the bases in the fight against tuberculosis, which evolved at that time. It showed how we could take care of health – and especially women’s health – through the network of ladies who were midwives and sanitary women. It's a model that we have to be able to export to other countries. It is also interesting to look at the consequences of abortion legislation. I was given the figures from Romania, which had a very strict abortion legislation under Ceaussescu. It is said – he was shot on Christmas Day – that the first law they changed on Christmas Day was abortion legislation in the country. In a few months it was five times lower maternal mortality, in sum. It had a huge effect on the number of women who survived, removing that law. It shows what challenges you face. I have to say that if there's one man we're going to celebrate in this context, it should perhaps be Martin Luther, because he's clearly organizing the countries that are here on the right side. We see that both the Vatican State and the orthodox part of the world depend on the Arab countries in what is now developing. Then I think it's important that we, who are in a different tradition and in a stronger women's tradition, also organize ourselves to fight for women's rights, because it's quite important to get at all to development in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e384	I also want to thank you for the debate and discussion on a very important and important topic. It's right that we have to be busy organizing ourselves in a good way to fight back the attacks that are now against fundamental rights. At the same time, it is important that we organise ourselves in a smart way, which means that we reach out through the decision-making processes and through the popular commitment that needs to be out, in order to put legislation and rights in place really in many countries. We're going to continue to have a high focus on equality. We have that in all areas – it is a fully integrated part of Norwegian aid policy and Norwegian development policy, but also Norwegian foreign policy. We do that in peace and reconciliation. We know that the role of women in this is incredibly crucial for building a country for the future. That's why we're constantly working on it, and we're now also working on the issues in the middle of conflict areas that we see today, like Syria and Iraq. We need to assist with help organizations for those who have experienced abuse, and we need to work on the fundamental changes. I'd like to say that when it's rumored – it's not certain that it will – that Somalia might now get a law against intersection, it'll be a highlight of that work for a long, long time, even if it's a long time before one has removed a cultural tradition of that kind. But it's a movement that manages to create the larger ranger also internally in a country that, perhaps most of all, has held back a terrible practice against women. We're going to work in the work that's going on in Europe, and we're going to support women's organisations that need it, in order to counteract the mitigation that's going on, among other things. in the case of abortion and abortion rights, in other countries. We're going to take the word in international assemblies to do that. Now I can't promise individual organisations money from the Great Britain Chair, but as I said in my post, this is how international organisations can apply for the increased funds we have, among other things. to see how it fits in, and of course it will be a priority in areas and countries with which we already have extensive cooperation, because it is easiest for us to follow up. But it is now time that there is an application process and a decision-making process that must be followed formally according to the legislation. But we agree that this is important. So Mandt asked questions about the relationship between health and education. I want to say that ensuring that health and reproductive rights are not just a one-off promise, but a lasting situation, is about investing in education, knowledge and competence. We know that the girls who get education, who are able to complete both primary and secondary school, have better knowledge of their own reproductive rights, they make sure that their children learn more, they have fewer children and they get married later. This is a long-term, extremely important investment for not only single cases, but for building a women's competence that is much stronger in countries that currently have far too weak competence in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e398	That is when the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e412	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e421	As I said, this matter is a proposal from the representatives of Storing Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and Kirsti Bergstø concerning the requirements for electrification of the Johan Castberg field, landing to Finnmark and the investigation of power cable to Svalbard, and imposing their negotiated standard contracts on Norwegian oil and gas and Norwegian industry when the Johan Castberg field is extended. First, the question of power from the land solution. A very large majority of the Committee is concerned with predictability of petroleum policy and will follow up the question of power from land to Johan Castberg in line with the established policy in that area. I would also like to refer to the reply letter from the Council of State to that question. So I just want to add that it refers to the challenges of security of supply in North Norway and Finnmark, especially in terms of electricity, but that Statnet is currently building a 420 kV power line between Balsfjord in Troms and Skaidi in Finnmark, just to solve those challenges. Having access to power is very important. A minority of the Committee, consisting of the Right and the Advance Party, also points to the fact that force from land-solution will have very high cost of action, major technical challenges and also pose risks to the postponement of the project, and that is what we believe to be of great importance. We have also recorded that Statoil has been out of investment costs for the whole or part electrification of the project will have a cost framework of from 4 billion. NOK to the top of Mr. 12 billion. kr. Then we are a bit sceptical about a demand for the electrification of the Johan Castberg field from the international oil and gas market situation and indicate that this could lead to increased costs and reduce any profitability from the Johan Castberg field and, in the worst case, create considerable uncertainty about the realisation of the project. On the issue of landing, we record that there is a separate project, Barents Sea Oil Infrastructure, which is established to assess the establishment of a possible future oil terminal at Veidnes in Finnmark. So there are four operators in the Barents Sea – Eni, Statoil, Lundin and OMV – who are involved in the project. A large majority of the Committee is concerned that marine petroleum activities are to provide jobs and economic development on land. Activities in the Barents Sea must be organised and operated in such a way as to contribute to employment and industrial development in North Norway. Landing oil from the Barents Sea to the Veidnes oil terminal in North Cape will be an important contribution in this way. There it is just to add that there is also a great expectation among the people of Northern Norway that this type of activity will have significant ring-effects on land, and I hope that the oil companies will also take note of that in the future. Svalbard cable: This question was addressed when Stortinget dealt with the Svalbard message before Christmas. The government has been asked to come up with an investigation into how to solve the energy situation on Svalbard in the future. The mission has been given and will receive some results in the revision. I think it's way too early to conclude what kind of energy solution to find for Svalbard, whether it should be cable, whether it should be gas, or whether there should be other elements. I think you're going to spend a little time on that, and that's why there's not much support for that proposal. In the case of standard contracts, a majority of the Committee shows that the industry's work on standard contracts is a good example of measures that can lead to less red tape in industry. Where appropriate, it can be cost-effective. The most important thing is to follow what is Norwegian law and contract form in terms of contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e442	I would just like to make a few comments in addition to what the rapporteur has said. For the Workers' Party, it is very important that we maintain the integrity of the development and operation plans and the overall framework we have set for the management of the petroleum activity. The interaction we have today between policy, which sets the overall framework, the management of these frameworks by the authorities and industry, has served us well and has given us a development on the base – with both expansions and emission reductions – as we have wanted. It is very important for us to make it clear that we do not need to create political risks around these types of expansions, which are strategically important for the development of the petroleum industry, especially in the Barents Sea, and in general for investments of the size that we are doing here. This is big money, there are a lot of jobs, and they are important for the regions where the expansion takes place. As for what we are going to do to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on Norwegian soil, what is at the bottom is that this is a sector that is below the ETS, the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme, and that has climate allowances. It's an area where you have high CO 2 charges. The sum of the two instruments shall provide an emission price which in turn generates investments to reduce emissions. It's worked. Today we have very low emissions on the Norwegian base compared to other sockets we can compare with, and with which it makes sense to compare. We also know that land-based power can be one way to reduce emissions. More efficient use of energy can be another way. There may be new ways in the future. What is crucial is that we also have to have it within reasonable cost of action, based on what the cost of CO 2 emissions will be in the future. The industry also has its own road map for development on a Norwegian base, which we in the Labour Party believe we should support through the participation of the authorities, and we have pointed to the possibility of establishing a separate programme to support the work done by the industry. Ring-fenced effects on land from the establishment on the base are in many ways what legitimizes the oil business in Norway, according to my concepts. We make a lot of money in the production and sale of oil and gas – we do. However, the impact this industry has on jobs and regional development is what is perhaps the most important for the Nordics and Norway today. 250,000 jobs – it is essential that we are able to maintain a high level of this. It is then important that industry itself – the oil companies – also understand that this is important. So when we come to the question of landing oil to Veidnes in North Cape, it might be for the oil companies an assessment of money and one with the other. I think it's a good deal to use the oil terminal at Veidnes. I understand that is also the widespread attitude in industry and among companies. But first of all, as the matter stands now, companies must bear in mind that they must not themselves cause political unrest about how to assess the oil business in North Norway in the future, by failing to see that the terminal at Veidnes is not only important for transporting oil out and in, but is also important as a signal effect. The terminal provides jobs in a region and in an area that needs it and that expects it, with all possible justice. The latter applies to standard contracts: a lot goes in the same direction. These are contracts and a contract regime established in cooperation between the Norwegian industry and the oil industry, and we expect this to be the case in the course of development – not that it should be possible to circumvent that type of contract via legal curve, thus creating poorer and unequal conditions of competition for Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e467	It's not the first time we've discussed electrification of offshore installations, and it's probably not the last time. These discussions have gradually become quite predictable, because either the answer is that one is so early in the process that there is no solution yet, or then one is so late in the process that there is too much cost, too technically difficult or too high a risk of postponement. It's at least rarely a time that fits. The reason for this is that there is no great desire to use electricity from land, because it is cheaper to emit CO 2 from gas turbines than to use electricity from land. The Council of State writes in its reply to the Committee that force from land is considered inappropriate due to very high cost of action, major technical challenges and the risk of the project being delayed. This is largely the same explanation as for more than 20 years of why power supply from countries has been eliminated on different projects. It seems a bit strange that an industry that has made great technological progress in most areas over the past 20 years has not been able to solve the challenges of power supply from countries. The petroleum industry has increased its emissions by 83,3 pst. from 1990 to 2015. This shows that oil and gas production has been the driving force behind the growth of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions in the last 20 years and is the largest emission sector with about 15 million tonnes of CO 2. When a field is decided upon, we have a strong impact on Norway’s emissions for many years to come. Selecting high-emission expansion solutions will lock Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions to a high level for a long time. Norway will cut its greenhouse gas emissions significantly in the years to come in order to meet our commitments, and all sectors will have to contribute. It will not make work easier if some sectors can continue to increase their emissions and it may make it difficult to accept significant cuts in other sectors. The letter of reply from the Council of State also states that the solution of rightholders involves the physical organisation of the ship for any future import of force. It is therefore important that work on force from land does not stop. The Johan Castberg field, together with other fields in the area, can form the basis for future field development at the Loppa Height, and it is important that this is included in further development of the area. Then it is important that the activity at sea also has ring-fenced effects on land. For example, the experience of Hammerfest shows how much new jobs mean for local communities and the region. With more and more findings in the area, there must be a clear expectation that profitable jobs will be created in the regions. It is therefore important that an oil terminal be explored and that it be included in the evaluations of future expansions that will result in greater volume. Then I will present proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e490	Then the representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, took up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e495	This is in so far as a long or short debate can be done, whichever one chooses to enter into the debate. However, the suspension at least confirms the broad majority who wish to continue the interaction and the role that one has had between the state, oil companies and the supplier industry in the development and development of new fields. It is an interaction that also takes into account the fact that the oil sector is currently subject to very strong greenhouse gas emissions-related instruments, both technologically and also high CO2 taxes, and also takes into account the fact that the oil sector is part of the market economy sector. Then I agree with what has been said by the representative of the Workers' Party that the road map for Norwegian pedestals presented is interesting. It allows the State to play a role as a cooperation partner for the oil industry in the development of new low-carbon technologies. There is a possibility that one should take advantage of. The centre party is behind the majority comment on the question of power from countries. Forces from land shall be assessed in the manner in which we have settled. It shall be followed up in line with established practice, which means that it shall be assessed in relation to all new developments. That doesn't mean it's going to be implemented in all new developments, necessarily. In some expansions, we want to implement it, and it is very important that we implement it, for example. in connection with the development of Johan Sverdrup, but there will also be cases where we do not implement it. I believe that a moment that has emerged during the examination of the Document 8 proposal is that there is a rather vulnerable power supply in Finnmark for the time being, and that there is a need to consider the issue of making demands through today’s attitude to the question of power from land. Landing is a question I think all the parties in the hall are concerned about. The principle that marine oil and gas activities will also have ring-fenced effects through workplaces and industrial development on land, I believe that all parties in the hall will agree. But to make demands in the way that one does in the setting today, the Center Party seems to be difficult. That doesn't mean we're not concerned about the problem. We believe that that issue is the development partners have to be concerned about all the way, and it will also be updated in the future. As far as Svalbard is concerned, an investigation has been initiated which was requested by a decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, and it seems perfectly natural that a party should await that investigation before taking a position on this issue here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e508	As regards emissions from the petroleum sector, it is good that we have a clear majority in the Storting that believes it is important to reduce those emissions. It is an overall committee that points to the requirements of today, namely that we have requirements for gas deposition, limitation on gas burning in torches, regulation of methane emissions, the use of the best available technology, and also highlights the importance of having a CO 2 tax. This is something to be pleased with, and often is what is being developed in international contexts to show what Norway is doing to reduce emissions from the socket. Then it's amazing to me that it's such a strong reluctance to take this one step further. It is clear that the oil sector has had increased emissions from 1990 – today it is probably about 15 million tonnes of the total 54 million tonnes of annual emissions we have, and it continues to increase. It is therefore important from the left that we now look at measures to ensure that we reduce emissions further. We now believe that it is time to take the step over, that the goal must be that all newly established areas should have either power from land, or that one has a waste gas management in the field, where one runs waste gases back into the base. This is technically possible, and it is important that we are able to initiate a process that can have a long-term and an order that this is the way we should go. There is no reason for us to have further emissions on a Norwegian base in the future when it is possible to have technical solutions to avoid it. This will reinforce the argument we have that on Norwegian soil we have the lowest emissions under production in the world – which we should reinforce. In the Johan Sverdrup case, we have shown that you should gain power from land, it is important that the Stortinget is in early to make a clear order. Therefore, it is also correct and important that this case about Johan Castberg comes to Stortinget now. It will be too late just to wait for the formal process until the PUD comes to Stortinget, as ordered today. Unfortunately, there is no majority today to make stricter demands. It is therefore important for the Left that, since the plant is to be prepared for the organisation of power from land, we continue to look at possible expansions at the Loppa Height to see if it is possible to obtain a synergy effect where an area electricisation can be achieved. It is also important that the power cable to Svalbard becomes a central part of the investigation on further power supply at Svalbard, which we have previously ordered from Stortinget, where different solutions need to be considered to avoid the emissions from the coal power plant that are there today. The power cable is one possibility if seen in conjunction with the electrification on the base. Finally, in the case of landings, – as several have pointed out – it must of course be a goal and a wish, and a very central part of the justification for having oil extraction in the north. Then there is certainly some disagreement about when that decision should be taken by the Stortinget. I'll bring up the suggestions that the Left is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e528	The representative Ola Elvestuen has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e533	The Barents Sea should not be built for oil purposes. If you have a heart, you understand, because in the world you've already found more than five times as much oil, coal and gas as we need. And consumption must be reduced in all sectors if we are to succeed in preventing the most dangerous impacts of global warming, to which the government wholeheartedly joined, supposedly, the Paris Conference two years ago. In addition, I have to say that if you don't have a heart, but you have a head, you realize that investing in the most expensive oil is risk sports. If that's how the world has too much oil, it's first of all problematic that we're starting to build up based on forecasts that take the world to a temperature increase of about three degrees, instead of making sure to leave it lying. In addition, it is particularly risky because it is the country that takes most of the risk in developing it here. And finally, there's a vulnerable area where the ice melts. The second point that makes us promote this proposal is the local effects. They want Kirsti Bergstø to come into a later article. The third point that matters to us is that if we choose to expand oil fields, we have to make sure that they do not lead to increased emissions from Norwegian soil. They must be based on zero emissions, whether carbon capture and storage, that Ola Elvestuen was in or there is sea wind, that Statoil and DNV GL operate projects and look at, or that is power from land. The oil sector is the sector in Norway that is sovereignly increasing Norwegian emissions most, by 83pst. of 1990. So we have committed ourselves to reducing emissions, but the oil sector continues its emissions bonus and is committed to doing so more and more in the coming years. I think it's interesting to notice that the oil industry has not intended to take on a cut, but they're going to take on a cut in relation to an expected increase – and that's increase, not cut, in the real world. That makes me want to ask a question to the Council of State that it would be nice if he answered in his post, and that is: What kind of plans does he have for further CO 2 emissions from the oil sector in the time to come? He's told me he's going to strengthen the climate agreement. But does that mean a drop in emissions? Does that mean that we can expect that if he continues to rule the country, the oil spills will be reduced? At least there is nothing in the forecasts that shows that it is. Let me actually go into electrification. Unfortunately, Statoil – quite deliberately – has chosen a concept with an FPSO, which is more difficult to electrify than the platforms that we have already proven electrified, which are round, of the Sevan type, the Goliath type. It is possible to electrify the model that Statoil has chosen. Similar cable introductions have been made in the type of vessel also on a Norwegian base, but a concept has been chosen that is not so easily electrified in the same way as electrification has been done in the past. Since Marit Arnstad took up the power situation in Finnmark in his post, I think it is worth noting that it is now being built – and given the concession to construct – line from Balsfjord to Skaidi. And Skaidi–Hammerfest is ready to be upgraded if there is a power demand – a power demand such as: could have been triggered by electrification of Castberg. So I'll go into a structural problem. We have two major structural problems. One is that we conduct policies at a very general level – early in the management plans and opening up the sea areas – but then we're not in there until after the PUD has been chosen, contracts have been concluded. And at least I haven't seen that there's some of the big big stuff here that's willing to make extra demands that might put an end to. It makes Stortinget a sand striker in the treatment of PUDs. That's not good. That's why it's important that we look at whether we can't come in earlier and make our decisions. Then there is a lack of coordination of electrification work. I'll get into a later article. Doing a job in that case would have been good. I'll take up the suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e561	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e567	Once again, we are discussing electrification of a field that is planned to be built on a Norwegian base. Over the last 20 years, governments of different colors have given exactly the same answer as whether to electrify fields that you want to expand, and neither technological development, power profits, nor new climate agreements have succeeded in reprogramming the automatic response that repeats: it's too expensive, and therefore we don't want to demand electrification. The majority, consisting of all except SV and the Green Party, indicate that the main objective of the petroleum policy remains ‘to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas in a long-term perspective’. The Greens don't share this goal, as they don't know. We have proposed a systematic closure of Norwegian oil and gas activities by 2040, because it is the only responsibility that can be done with the climate commitments and outlooks facing Norway, and that is the only reasonable thing to put all Norwegian resources into the green shift. However, within the current petroleum policy, the majority of the population claim that climate requirements are actually also required, and then we have to ask questions about what is the premise for the concept of ‘wage production’. Is it profitable to expand a resource when climate costs are not reflected in the calculation? Is it profitable to extend a resource if the need for a cost cut can lead to a reduction in the safety of the socket? Since oil prices fell in 2014, we have had several so-called incidents on the base, and the question has been raised – not least recently – about the need for oil companies to reduce costs actually also leads to a reduction in safety. We might get feedback on that in the government's planned announcement of security on the socket, but it's an increasingly important question. The Paris Agreement was concluded after the large oil price drop, so Norway has signed that agreement. On the other hand, there does not appear to be any political link between the conclusion of this agreement and perceptions of the profitability of the petroleum activity. The Working Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Centre point out in their attitude that the main challenge of achieving the objective of petroleum policy is increased extraction from fields, expansion and discovery and detection of undiscovered resources. But the real climate cost of emissions of 1 tonne of CO2 is clearly higher than the current EU quota price, and I assume that only the members of the Progress Party – and hopefully barely enough of them – really believe that the long-term adverse effects of emissions of 1 tonne of CO2 do not amount to more than EUR 5. The Johan Castberg field is assumed to be operational in 2022 and is assumed to be operational for more than 30 years. This is exactly the same period that the EU and Norway are going to cut their greenhouse gas emissions dramatically, and we cannot at the same time make decisions that will bind our emissions for decades to come. It is risky, and if the world succeeds in achieving the climate targets that Norway has agreed to, this investment will not pay off. The Greens have constantly asked this Stortinget to plan for a gradual phasing-out of the oil industry, and then it is all the more incomprehensible that a majority of people who really want to maintain the oil business do not even ensure that the oil business takes on climate responsibility. If projects do not tolerate the climate cost, then Norway will not tolerate those projects, and then the climate will not tolerate those projects. What the Right Party and the Progressive Party are doing is to continue the oil policy of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, and the Workers' Party and the Centre are supporting it wholeheartedly. These parties claim that they take the Paris agreement seriously, but they allow the international oil and gas market situation to determine how much – or more specifically how little – climate gas cut we are going to have on the Norwegian base. The question that remains unanswered is: How will Norway reduce its oil sector emissions? We need to get an answer to that question soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e593	The government's work is aimed at achieving the main objective of the petroleum policy, which is to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas from a long-term perspective. This shall be done at the same time as we take into account health, the environment and safety in the best possible way. Predictability, long-termity and the organisation of comprehensive solutions are essential for our regulation of the petroleum sector to provide good resource management and maximum Community income. The role of the authorities is to provide a framework for the activities and within these frameworks are the companies which investigate, plan and implement exploration, development and operation. I am pleased that the setting in this case today emphasises this interaction. The Johan Castberg field is the largest oil found on the Norwegian base that has not yet been decided upon. In a demanding time for the industry, rightholders have decided to proceed with a large production ship and plan to submit plans for deployment and operation later this year. Expected investment costs are between 45 and 50 billion. kr. This expansion is important for the development of the petroleum industry in the north and will generate good revenues for the community. The Johan Castberg field will also create significant activity and many profitable jobs in the industry both in the development and operation phase. The project will provide a number of large and small contracts for which the Norwegian supplier industry will be able to compete. For several decades, the authorities have used instruments to limit greenhouse gas emissions from the sector. The authorities ensure the limitation of emissions through allowances, CO 2 tax – special purpose Norwegian cap – and other measures. Such a measure is effective from land, which is to be assessed in all new developments and major conversions on Norwegian soil. A pillar of our climate policy is participation in the EU's quota system, and the petroleum sector is as well known as part of this system. Emission reductions will take place in the sectors and countries where the cost of reducing emissions is lowest. The emission power is given by the level of the allowance cap at European level, irrespective of where the emissions occur. This means that reduced emissions within the system are matched by increased emissions elsewhere. In such a system, therefore, the only direct way to reduce emissions is to reduce the number of allowances. The size has agreed that Norway will seek to conclude an agreement with the EU on the joint fulfilment of our emissions obligations under the Paris Agreement after 2020. This will mean that Norway in the quota sector will contribute to the implementation of 43 pst emission reductions. compared to the 2005 level – within the EU ETS. The rights holders of the Johan Castberg find a comprehensive effort to find the best solutions for the Johan Castberg field in terms of both energy solution, contract strategy and export solution. As my predecessor informed the Committee on Energy and the Environment, by letter of 16 November 2016, considers force from countries that are inappropriate due to major technical challenges, very high cost of action and the risk of the project being delayed. The action costs are of the order of 5 000 to 8 000 kr per tonne of CO 2 reduced. Together with other fields and findings in the area, the operator of the Johan Castberg field also assesses a common oil terminal in Finnmark. I believe it is both important and right that companies investigate such a terminal. The companies have set up an investigation cycle and an appropriate timetable. The current terminal project will contribute to the realisation of a terminal from the start of production in the Johan Castberg field. Quite briefly also about standard contracts: I am generally positive about the use of standard contracts, and there has been a solid job in the industry in this area lately. I assume that the rightholders choose the type of contract – whether standard or not – that supports the work of expanding the field as cost-effectively as possible. To sum up, I am concerned with maintaining the level of activity and the value creation in the petroleum industry. In the Johan Castberg project, one in the development phase will have a total of 23 000 annual works and in operation on average 18 000 annual works. One shall produce for 30 years. This is particularly important for the industry in the current situation, and one will contribute significantly to the community through the development of the Johan Castberg field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e624	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e629	The Council of State shows that this is a matter in which the department and political authorities are not in and are ‘hands on’ at all. For the Council of State it is certainly known that, in the case of the technological solution chosen by Statoil, a different design could be chosen on the ship that had not given the same type of technical challenge. However, as its predecessor, the Council of State has chosen the Hands Off strategy for the industry, that is, to say that it is up to the industry to choose the solutions you want. Well, that's not how you reach social goals. I expect the Council of State to join the objective of a unanimous enlargement, namely that the Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced. And if the Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are going down, they cannot continue to rise from the oil industry. One of the things oil companies say is that electrification is so expensive. We were presented before the expansion of Johan Sverdrup for giant bills up to 6 billion. kr for the extension of Johan Sverdrup. But have the councils followed up and found out how much the electrification of Johan Sverdrup actually cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e634	As far as Johan Sverdrup is concerned, there is news today that the stakeholder community is continuing with Johan Sverdrup Phase 2, where electrification lies within the Utsira height. Final costs of electrification will come from that process. At least it is gratifying to record that a basis has been found for progressing with phase 2 and thus contributing to increased activity and opportunities for the supplier industry in the coming years. With regard to the issue of lower emissions from Norwegian oil and gas activities, the Council of State is very clear that yes, we are working on it, and we are using the various instruments that are. Let me just refer to what has been said about CCS, relating to the possibility of power from land, which is being assessed in all builds, and the work in progress related to sea winds connected to the petroleum activity. In the case of low-emission technology centres, which have also been a request decision by Stortinget, the government continues to work with it and will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e643	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But what I was asking about was: where was the actual expansion of the electrification of Johan Sverdrup, i.e. the first part of Johan Sverdrup? In the real world, that's going to be down by about 3 billion. kr, i.e. much, much more reasonable than the figures presented by the oil companies in the course of development. It only underlines my point; if you're going to be able to achieve emission reductions, the most effective thing you can do is to say that, as SV has suggested, all the expansions are going to be based on zero emissions. There are now so many solutions and alternative solutions to ensure zero emissions by deployment that it would have been possible. For this reason, I ask a follow-up question to the Council of State, which addresses the objective he sets out to reduce emissions, namely: When has the Council of State planned to reduce oil sector emissions? When does the Council of State have a goal of going down?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e650	The issue of emissions from Norwegian petroleum activities will depend on the type of activity and findings being made on Norwegian soil during the coming years. We are constantly working on finding solutions where appropriate, based on both the cost picture and technical solutions for electrification of new designs and upgrading of existing fields. As for the question of whether the Council of State is ‘hands on’ or not, which was put in place, I can promise the representative Eidsvoll Holmås that it is I. We are currently working on phase 2 of Johan Sverdrup and the totality there to ensure that potential new findings can be developed in this area, too, at the Utsira Height, related to the electrification to take place at Johan Sverdrup stage 2. We are in dialogue with the companies, and in the end I will refer to the road map for the petroleum sector that the industry has developed. There is a lot of good guidance on how to continue working with reduced emissions from Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e657	I want to follow up the representative Eidsvoll Holmås’ question related to Johan Sverdrup. As the Council of State said, there has been news that phase 2 is going on, and we had an untraditional round in the Storting, where the Storing went quite far in the leadership to ensure that one got an area solution around Johan Sverdrup and the entire Utsira height. So my question is really just a simple yes- or no- question, for the Storting made concrete decisions, among other things. that the turbines of Edvard Grieg are to be shut down when electricity comes in by 2022. Is it such that the Storting decides that what the Storing has decided, it ensures that the Council of State, so that power from land comes, and that all the platforms intended for the Utsira Height are included in electricity from land?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e662	The answer is yes, we are working on a comprehensive solution that will contribute to the success of Storting's will in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e667	I think it is amazing that the Council of States is so pleased with the measures we are taking to reduce emissions on the base, whether it is a CO2 tax or a ban on torching, after previous decisions, while at the same time when we are going to look forward, the answer is all the time that no, this is part of the EU quota market, and therefore there is no further measure to limit – although there is a lot of action within the ETS. Norway and other EU countries. It is a fact that, with the technological development we have, there are completely different possibilities now, both in terms of electrification – sea wind is beginning to rise – and the possibility of having exhaust gas management, so that the exhaust gas can be run down and deposited in the ground again. Then my question becomes: does the Council of State agree that there will be an advantage, that it is positive, whether we have zero emissions in all new fields in Norway in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e675	Obviously, it's an advantage if we can work towards that goal, and that's, along with the industry, our ambition. At the same time, we must take into account that some expansions can be so costly that it would be better to use gas turbines for electricity and heat on an individual basis. One reason why we are part of the EU's common system, the ETS, is that we should be able to take the emissions where costs are lower. I expect the representative Elvesuen to agree that we need to be cost-effective when we choose to focus our resources on different emissions cuts, and that we take the cuts where they have the greatest impact on the capital invested. It will be a right strategy to solve a global climate challenge. We cannot look unilaterally at individual measures, we have to look at the big picture, because it is a global challenge, and it has to be solved with a global policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e682	I agree that it should be cost-effective, but if global challenges are to be addressed, it is not always useful to skip the lowest obstacle; it is also necessary to establish a policy for the innovative technological development necessary to achieve objectives. Repeatedly, the Norwegian requirements from the past have contributed to driving forward technological developments. If the Council of State agrees that it would have been an advantage at least if we had approached zero emissions also on Norwegian soil – does the Council have any measures to drive that development, so that we can take the lead and get the benefits of a development, in order to obtain a zero-emission solution on Norwegian soil?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e687	Then I would like to refer to the proposals and measures that this government is now working on. An industrial race for the development and storage of CO2 emissions, CCS, may be important for the petroleum industry in the continuation. Force from land is a measure that will be assessed in any new major expansion and upgrading of fields. We will follow up the request decision relating to the development of a low-emission technology centre. Technology development, research, needs to be more involved in this field in order for the emissions from our petroleum business to be as low as possible. I also think it is important in this context to refer to Statoil's recently launched climate strategy, which is an exciting piece of document showing how the company works with CO2 emissions from Norwegian socket.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e694	What matters to climate change on Earth is how much CO2 is emitted from now on and right into the future, and the total of it. Therefore, Norway's main climate responsibility, the fact that Norwegian oil has added about 14 billion tonnes of CO2 to the atmosphere over the past 50 years. But emissions from the socket now and then also play a role, and then it is not reassuring to hear the Council of State refer in general order to the ETS, to possible CCS technology, to Statoil's own plans, etc. – especially when the future perspective is that there are now well over 100 new fields in which it can potentially become active. The question is, once again: does the Council itself have any overall objective of how much CO2 Norwegian oil activity will be emitted from its production in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e701	In line with Norwegian oil policy, it is completely unnatural for a Council of State to set personal targets for the level of emissions of Norwegian petroleum activities. The goal is the lowest possible emissions from the Norwegian business on the base, and one will be completely dependent, as I have said before, on the power finding and the expansions we get in the years to come. Then I will be allowed to stress that when future activity on a Norwegian base is now being discussed, one must take inward the perspective that the world will need energy from oil and gas as well as in the continuation. The International Energy Agency issued a new report yesterday to look at the measures that need to be taken to achieve the target of well below 2 °C temperature increase by 2050. But we still have to have approx. 40 pst. oil and gas in the energy mix in the world in 2050, and then new fields need to be developed and new production started to replace existing ones that are out of production.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e708	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e715	We have been told many stories about oil in the north – the adventure of wealth and new times. We've been told amazing stories about the coexistence between fisheries and the oil industry. The experience of fishermen with seismic shooting nuanced it somewhat. The same did the fact that the Goliath field came in the middle of the spawning area into lots, a delicacy for both the Japanese and our own cod. And we've been told that security and preparedness are world-class. Nevertheless, we know that we have little to do with whether the accident is first out, in the event of the storm. The oil protection equipment has a wave limit that our own seas don't operate on. We've been told that we should believe in the story of coexistence and good enough security, because the story of jobs to come is the greatest, the finest, the most told. Workplaces have been used as breakwaters to open vulnerable sea areas, as an argument that we should ignore the fear that our greatest value, the fish, will risk contamination or being chased away. In the 2009 election campaign, it was almost impossible to penetrate the door of the town halls around the coastal municipalities of Finnmark, because the oil industry had left so many promises on glossy paper about workplaces and ring-effects in that particular municipality. And so, when it comes to the problem, when the mood is calmed down, when annoying fishermen, coastal people and environmentalists have been given the consent back and development solutions are to be chosen, and obviously there were no jobs that were the most important anyway. That they're not there for the industry is now one thing, we've seen that before when Eni chose to build his scandalous platform in South Korea under work that took lives. Then we see that capital is given the greatest power and the most important value. However, the fact that the Storting should be involved on such a basis rather than promoting clear demands seems to me to be incomprehensible, especially because a majority of the Committee clearly expresses the importance of landing as part of value creation and ring-fence for the region. The fact that we can't stand for a solution that gives most jobs shows that the story was to us, and the wish was to get the resources from us, but it wasn't about us. SV does not want the opening of the Barents Sea, but when it is decided, we require the best preparedness and development solutions that actually provide shore-based jobs for those who take the greatest risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e726	There is no one here in the Chamber who has called for any personal targets for climate change emissions from the Council of State. We have asked if the government has any targets for reductions in the oil sector. This is because the Stortinget has made a decision that we are going to reduce emissions to 47 million tonnes by 2020, but I notice that none of the government parties are talking about that goal at all – it is also shaking at the head of the representative Korsberg behind there – and that is talking. It's telling us the situation we're up against when we have a government committed by the environmental parties Left and Christian People's Party, which gives the bluff of the big decisions and the cooperation agreements that have been made to reduce emissions, and so the Council of State comes here and says that you can't impose any personal goals on me. No, we don't. We want some concrete goals that the government is working on. And if the emissions from the oil sector are to depend on how much business there is in oil, and what you're doing, is to “fine” and to grant so many permits that everything is facilitated for increased activity, well, that means the same thing as turning your back on the Storting and rejecting the targets that lie there. I will briefly take two things. One is the question of standard contracts – and just to say one thing here, it is the oil industry and the supplier industry that have negotiated these standard contracts. The point of the standard contracts is to reduce red tape and find balanced conditions. What is happening now, and which has been up to debate several times in Stortinget, is that many believe that oil companies are taking advantage of the power position they are currently in, to run through more negotiations and press the supply industry unnecessarily. That is why I think it naïve to believe that in a free market and in free negotiations one will choose standard contracts. There would have been a pressure from the state that this is what we think you should use, if you actually want these standard contracts to be used. So for electrification and a matter that I want us to deal with on a broader basis a little later in this landfill session: it is a problem that we are dealing with electrification related to individual expansions. If we were to look at a similar experience done in the United Kingdom, all offshore wind expansion was treated as single expansions and individual connections. After they gained experience of it, they sat down and said that here we need more coordination to reduce costs. I believe that we need similar coordination on the Norwegian side with the extension of both the Svalbard cable – that is why we have promoted it – and offshore wind, and I hope that we can have the opportunity to discuss this wider later. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e737	Time's up! The president was a moment in doubt if the representative spoke to the president or not, but I let the question come to the attention of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e742	I'll be brief. It was Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås that made me take the floor. I perceived that he allowed the Left some points of view – towards 2020, as if the 2020 targets do not apply. Of course, the 2020 targets are still valid, and the aim is to reach them. It is a fact that with regard to the oil and gas sector and the increase that is right there, it is a result of decisions taken by previous governments. What is right is that all the efforts made – especially in the transport sector, whether it is the extension of the electric car benefits or the debate on biofuels, which we are in, are due to the fact that 2020 is in place and that measures need to be taken that are now effective. We fully agree that with regard to the oil and gas sector and new measures, we must demand zero emissions as a general solution in the oil and gas sector. That's the natural next step with the evolution we've had up to now. We have shown several times – last with Johan Sverdrup – that the technical solution is there, and the natural next step is to set a clear time for a decision requiring zero-emission solutions in new fields. But it's a fight that needs to be taken forward. It will not be able to have an effect by 2020. If that's 2020, it's strengthening in the areas we now have, of which we are definitely part. I can't speak for the government – it can talk for itself. But on the civil side, and with the consensus that it was in terms of budgets, that is definitely what is the motivation factor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e751	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e757	Again, Ola Elvesuen refers to the expansion of Knarr as the reason for the increase in emissions in Norway, and owes it to the previous government. But this was an extension that a total accumulation was standing behind, and that the Left's representatives wholeheartedly supported and had no objections whatsoever. Nevertheless, they opted to promise that emissions would go down, and they promised that if only the climate dissidents from the Progress Party were allowed to control the ship, it would be much better. The reality and fasitancy have been presented to us: during the time of the red-green government, they went down. Too little down? Absolutely! But they went down. Under the government that Left has supported, and as the Left and Christian People's Party prisoners, the emissions have begun to rise. Yes, it's a change of pace – a change of pace in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e764	This debate opens up quite frightening perspectives for future Norwegian climate policy. The debate is really about whether we should put action in one field to choose the most climate-friendly solution with the lowest emissions there, and the Stortinge answer is: No, we should not. The backstop is that the same size has opened 23rd and 24th concession rounds, and we have now been told by the government that there are far more than 100 new calls for search blocks, and we have been confirmed by the Council of State that there is no sort of plan or goal or ambition for what kind of greenhouse gas emissions this business is going to lead to. So Norwegian climate policy and its most important part, oil and gas activities, are opening up to anything of greenhouse gas emissions in the years to come – the years in which we are, like, going to cut our greenhouse gas emissions dramatically, along with the rest of the world. It allows Norway to continue to be a supplier to the rest of the world of large greenhouse gas emissions through oil production. The council's answer to my question about emission plans turns into a question about what the market is going to want of Norwegian oil, and an embedded assumption that the 40 pst. as we still need in relation to current oil activities in the future, it is Norway that is going to deliver, and it is therefore necessary, as the Council of State says, to increase Norwegian oil activities in the years to come in order to deliver according to the reduced share of oil needed by the world. This is completely deplorable in all that can be termed Norwegian climate policy, and there is a problem that Stortinget now has to address – Norway’s overall and long-term climate responsibility, Norway’s path towards the dates, 2030, 2030 and 2050, where world and our greenhouse gas emissions are to be dramatically cut. This debate shows that the Stortinget is at full speed in the opposite direction, with the Advance Party and their supporters – both in government and in opposition – on the team. It's scary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e773	I am pleased to note that the majority of Stortinges follow up on the previous big business report and the proposition of this government on the framework conditions for Norwegian oil and gas activities. They're stuck. Then I also record that on the one hand, SV is very concerned with the environmental perspective, but at the same time at least equally concerned with jobs and activity related to – in this case – Johan Castberg development and other developments in the Barents Sea. It's especially to experience, but that's the way it is. We assume from the government that we are going to have a competitive petroleum activity on a Norwegian base for many decades to come, generating jobs both in the oil and gas industries and in the supply industry. Only Johan Castberg will – as I was at the beginning – represent 23 000 annual works in the deployment phase and 1200 annual works in the operational phase. There are profitable jobs that you need in the north. It gives a value creation of the order of 290 billion. kr over the expected production time, of this 125 billion. kr to the community, which may go to additional welfare services in the country, i.e. kindergartens, schools, care for the elderly and health. I record that names such as the «climate denials from the Party of Advancement» are used by the SV. I'll take a distance from that. We assume that we have man-made climate change, as well as the natural variations in the climate. On the part of the government, we are working to achieve Norway's climate goals under the Paris agreement. We're going to do that within the EU's quota system. And to underline this, the government is working to increase the EU's carbon pricing so that a positive effect can be achieved – in a way that we have had a positive effect on the special Norwegian carbon tax since 1991. Market mechanisms also work within climate policy. That's what the government is basing on. That is why we are actively working to reach a good agreement with the EU on the total emissions in the quota sector for the next few years, by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e784	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Before we go to the handling of case No. 3, the President will inform that the called alternate of the Finnmark County, Ingarill Olsen, now takes the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e803	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – they are deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e812	In view of the previous debate, most of the CO 2 has been released – to put it that way. Maybe we'll have a slightly shorter debate on this issue, especially if we can stick to the issue. The proposal of the representative promoted by the representatives of the SV is in force from land-resolution and this with standard contracts. In the course of the Committee's proceedings on this matter, the rightholders announced on 2 February that they had opted for an extension solution for Skarfjell. The solution chosen is a seabed extension linked to the Gjøa platform with energy supply from the Gjøa. The rightholders of Skarfjell continue to work on development with a view to submitting plans for deployment and operation by February 2018. Then I think most of what you can say about this is said. Standard contracts we debated in the previous case, so I see no reason to repeat those arguments, because the arguments are probably the same as in the previous case – at least the comments are the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e824	I can agree with what the rapporteur says. It's sometimes suggested, and then it turns out that things are being solved along the way. This might be the case with this case, because here Wintershall has said that they want to go for the solution that's there. The issue in many ways now is how to follow this up further towards final treatment of PUD, which is presented to the Stortinget. Then I have really just one question to the Council of State, and it is: How has the Department, Government and Directorate – under his leadership and under the leadership of the previous Council of State – been the proponents of, or encouraged Wintershall to choose this type of electrification solution that Wintershall here wants to go further? That's the one question to the Council of State. To keep the debate brief, it would have been great if he could answer it in his post. The second question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State intend to do from now until the PUD is presented to the Stortinget – if the PUD is large enough to be presented to the Stortinget – in order to ensure that this expansion is now implemented in the way Wintershall proposes, through a power supply from Gøa, and to ensure that we do not get any increased emissions from oil production in this field? I think this is the solution that's being chosen. But it is interesting, since the Council of State in the previous case said so clearly that he was ‘hands on’ in these cases – and then it has been so ‘hands on’ that there has not yet been a landing solution on Johan Castberg, and then ‘hands on’ that no FPSO solution was chosen that makes it easy to electrify on Johan Castberg. Then it would have been fun and interesting to hear where “hands on” he has been and is going to be to ensure that we get a development solution that does not increase the Norwegian CO 2 emissions. I address the Socialist Left proposal on standard contracts, I argued for it in the previous round. I would like to receive a new comment from the Council of State on that – if he has anything else to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e836	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has then taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e841	This is in itself a pleasant matter, apart from the fact that the Green Party does not, of course, want this field to be opened. But it is positive that it is now being chosen, or at least added, a power solution from land, and that Skarfjell is assumed to be connected to Do, which today receives power from land. So here the builder found that this is the most profitable option. It is uplifting and affordable that an operator chosen by Wintershall does not contribute to even greater greenhouse gas emissions. The Green Party is nevertheless of the opinion that if we are to have more such decisions, we are dependent on more and clearer state leadership. This type of decision is a decision that has major societal implications far beyond what is reflected in the company's business decisions. It is the task of the state to ensure that the social consequences are reflected and weighed when matters like this are to be decided, and we have today a regulatory framework that says that electrification should always be evaluated, but that therefore very rarely leads to electrification. Lower oil prices, which are very likely to happen to us, will lead to a risk that, with today's weak leadership, this is a solution that will rarely be chosen in the future. The Green Party believes that the government and the state as a whole must understand that once we have joined the Paris Agreement, the objectives and assumptions of the Paris Agreement must also be introduced as a framework for the further use of resources on the base. In this case, these framework conditions must at least involve electrification of operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e850	As said by the case rapporteur, much of the general nature of these issues is discussed under case No. 2, so I'm not going into it in this post, I'm just specifying some details about the Skarfjell extension itself. It is such that the rightholders of Skarfjell on 31 January 2017 decided on an extension solution that, as commented, Skarfjell will be connected to Gjøa with an underwater installation. This means that hydrocarbons from Skarfjell will be extracted with two sea bed frames connected to the Gejøa platform for processing and export. The method will also provide lifting gas and water injection for pressure support. What is important and correct is – and it is actually pleasing, based on this decision – that the Gjøa platform has sufficient reserve capacity to meet Skarfjell’s needs. Consequently, the solution chosen is in line with the intention of this draft representative. With regard to the general nature of the ministry and the government's dialogue with the partnerships related to different developments, I would like to stress that that dialogue is ongoing. At the same time, we have a process that is open and transparent in the sense that we have an impact assessment. First, there is a plan for an impact assessment which is being consulted, then the Ministry sets out the plan programme, and the impact assessment is being carried out with a new consultation. It is based on the master documents relating to the final treatment of the development and operation plans and provides an opportunity for all actors to take the necessary views on climate action, including land-based power. When this case is as it is today, it is a joyous day because Skarfjell will also mean that we will benefit from additional petroleum resources in a mature part of the Norwegian base, which in turn will provide additional jobs both in the industry and in the supplier industry. When it is said that it is rare that companies will find it right to go for power-related solutions from countries, this case is a good example of the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e863	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e877	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e886	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the Matter, which is amending the legislation on how to establish the basis for the payment of sick pay, parental leave, care allowance and some other social security benefits. It has now been five years since the Storing made changes to help calculate more benefits based on the information provided by the employer to the public through the introduction of the A scheme. Last year, the Stortinget dealt with a matter of extending Nav's access to information in the A scheme. A unanimous committee expressed impatience in how this should be materialised. The matter today is about that. In order to be more automatic, it is proposed that sick pay be determined during the employer's period in the light of the last three months' income. There is a change from today's rules, which say four weeks or the last month, and which allows for a longer calculation period if revenue varies a lot over time. For the period during which sickness benefits are paid, the basis of the employer’s period shall be converted into annual income and compared with the income declared in the ‘A’ scheme in the last 12 months. If the deviation is greater than 25 pst, the basis shall be determined by judgement based on pension income. The introduction of the A scheme allows for a more accurate calculation of the loss of income for freelancers and it is therefore proposed that sick pay for freelancers be calculated according to the rules for employees and not according to the rules for self-employed workers. In addition, it is proposed that those who combine income as self-employed and freelancers should be able to calculate their income as freelancers. The Committee is essentially behind the existing proposals, with some exceptions. I would therefore like to present the proposals on which the Labour Party is involved. The starting point for our position is that we support digitisation, but it must not result in individuals suffering financial losses as a result of such solutions. Firstly, we believe that it is unclear how the basis of calculation will be established after an employee has received an increase in pay established by a collective agreement. We believe that the proposed three-month rule does not take into account situations in which the agreement goes into dissent. The three-month rule may result in a failure to provide the sick person with the correct grounds. We believe that this is unfortunate, and we will vote against the new 8th paragraph of Section 22-11. The second objection concerns the entry condition in order to use judgement: we mean a deviation of 25 pst. to use judgement is too high. Many people may experience large fluctuations in income throughout the year. This applies largely to seasonal workers, for example: travel, agriculture, etc. We suggest that the possibility of discretionary judgements be set at 15 pst. The same applies to calculations of the social security period. Employees who work in highly stressed professions and who try to adapt by reducing working hours in order to try to work will be paid less with the proposal now being made compared to the current system. Here, too, we believe that the criterion of discretion should be able to be triggered by 15 pst. deviation. In the bill, the government assures that the proposals are not about changing the level of compensation for sick pay and that the economic change of these proposals represents a saving of only 0.2 pst. It's not much, but it's actually 80 million. kr. Even if it is to be divided into many, it can mean a lot to those who are affected. With our proposals, we have tried to balance the need for more efficiency against the needs of individuals for the safety of disease. I refer to the Labour Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e911	The representative of Rigmor Aasrud has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e916	I'm not going to do this anymore than necessary. I thank the President-in-Office for a very good introduction. This is a proposal that supports the government’s strategy for digitisation of public services. This will increase the quality of the health insurance basis and reduce the potential for mispayments and social security fraud. This is a matter that can actually seem quite technical. Then I think it's worth remembering the hearing we had in the committee on this, and the joy that this was finally carried out, and the positive consequences that it has for the government to renew and improve the public sector. So there's some suggestions from the minority, and that's among other things. proposal No 1 from the red-green parties and proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. We're going to vote against them. The reason is that if you lower the threshold of deviation from more than 25 pst. For more than 15 pst, a larger number of cases will have to be taken out for manual treatment. Given the large volume of cases in sick pay and parental leave, this will have significant administrative consequences, and this is contrary to the intention of the proposal. Then it's proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. We're also going to vote against that. The reason for this is that post-payment conversion of sick pay due to leave is challenging and labour-intensive for the employment and welfare seat, and that it is natural that a time-limit should be introduced at the back of time for the employment and welfare seat to carry out such a conversion and back payment. All in all, it was a good start from the case rapporteur. This is our explanation of vote on the proposals from the minority. The government delivers on renewing and improving the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e929	I shall speak as long as the voice bears! The draft law under consideration today includes changes to the Law on Social Security affecting workers and freelancers. The proposals essentially imply that income reported to the A Scheme becomes the main source for calculating and establishing the basis for sickness benefits and other benefits calculated as sickness benefits. In addition, a better income coverage is proposed for beneficiaries of sick pay who are both freelancers and self-employed. The main objective of the changes is to facilitate the reliable and efficient management of key welfare services through digitisation and automation. One of the main objectives of the government's ICT policy is a user-oriented and efficient public administration. The proposals under consideration today will contribute to achieving this objective through a greater degree of automated labour and welfare procedures and regulatory simplification. The changes will also contribute to the realisation of gains on investments in the A Scheme and Project 2. The Government’s proposed changes will have a positive impact on all parties. Employers will have a simpler set of rules to deal with, giving greater understanding and precision in determining the sickness benefit base during the employer's period. Simplification of legislation using information provided by the A Scheme also increases non-discrimination and speeds up the handling of issues in the Employment and Welfare Act. For the user, this means for example: a regulatory framework that is simpler to understand, more predictable and faster to respond to applications. The user will also be better aware of his case by making income information reported to the a scheme available in the ALTINN. Persons who are both freelancers and self-employed will receive sick pay of 100 pst. of the proceeds of freedom. Today they get 65 pst. of the income from freedom, which is particularly unfortunate for persons who have a large share of the income from work as freelancers and a smaller share as self-employed persons. The proposals will not provide a lower level of compensation for the individual beneficiary of the disease. Employees and freelancers shall continue to receive sick pay of 100 pst. on the basis of sickness benefits. It is proposed to continue the key provisions aimed at ensuring that the sick person is replaced by the actual labour income lost due to sickness. It will continue to be the case that if a worker has received a permanent salary change during or after the calculation period, the period following the change in salary shall be taken into account in the calculation of the sick pay basis. The possibility of setting the sickness benefit base during the social security period at the time of judgement will continue to exist. I am pleased that the proposals facilitate a more efficient and automated performance management. This gives more time for follow-up to get more people to work, which is the most important task of the Employment and Welfare Act. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee is behind the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e946	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e951	I have reason to ask the Council of State about some of what she said in her post. The Council of State there says that wage increases should continue to be counted in determining the sick pay base. Then you propose a three-month deadline. It is true that collective agreements sometimes go to a bad vote, and then the three-month deadline can be exceeded. Is the State Council’s statement that the wage increases are to be taken into account, or is it still the three-month deadline in force, in the situations that have been put to a bad vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e957	The conversion and repayment of sick pay due to tariff fees are challenging and demanding for the establishment. But now the three-month deadline will apply after the final vote. So that's how we think it's going to be good enough time. We also believe that it is natural that a time limit should be introduced for how far back in time the establishment can carry out such a conversion. As I said, as long as we add the deadline after the roll-call vote, i.e. three months after the final vote, we believe that this will be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e964	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was so elucidating. So there will be individuals who can have a medical report starting from May 2nd, and the salary increase will apply from May 1st. Although the vote is not until September, you will have a three-month deadline afterwards. That information from the Council of State was clarifying. But I have another question related to the matter. We all agree that digitisation is good for society. The automation of treatment provides greater equality of treatment. The same thing applies when we standardize. Does the Council of State think there are any limits to when these benefits go beyond individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e971	I am not sure what the representative is asking that question. If the representative could clarify his question, I would appreciate it. Digitalisation will be mainly positive for users, for the establishment and for employers. I can't see that the kind of digitization we're talking about here will be to the detriment of any of the three parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e979	There is an opportunity for clarification – Aasrud, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e984	In this case, we say that people who have an aberration of up to 25 pst. of what they would otherwise have had in income, shall not be recalculated on the basis of their sickness benefit. That's a result of digitizing, standardizing and automating. That means that some people can get up to 25 pst. less in sick pay than they would get if you had a manual calculation of it. This is a rather eloquent example of the fact that for some, digitisation, automation and standardisation can actually result in a loss of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e989	What we see is that in a clear majority of cases, the sickness fund is set at the converted annual income and not at the average of the last three reports. In general, 25 pst. be comprehensive, but you will have the opportunity to make judgements when you see that there is a deviation. We believe that the limit set is both appropriate and clear to all, most of them. We cannot quite see that the threshold should be lowered, simply because a lower threshold for judgement would involve such a large manual procedure that some of the purpose of the whole case would then lapse. You can't rule out that someone could have a disadvantage, but we believe that the probability is small in terms of the benefits of introducing this system and the benefits of getting a different type of reporting now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e996	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1012	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1021	Across all the parties, we agree on one thing: we want a society where everyone can participate. That is why we need to base universal design on social development. Gender equality and accessibility for people with disabilities are important for achieving the objective of an accessible society for all. The representative proposal from the representatives of Storing Karin Andersen and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås promotes a list of 26 proposals for a better universally designed society. These proposals span several fields of activity and fall within the responsibility of several departments and committees. It is the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality that coordinates the various measures for persons with disabilities across departments in terms of universal design, discrimination and equality, and all the proposals contained in the proposal for a representative have been commented on or answered in letters from the Council of State in the BLD. The letter of reply from the Council of State states that several of the proposals have already been implemented, launched or followed up. Some have been implemented in adopted plans, and in this respect reference is made to, among others. the Government Action Plan for 2015-2019, which describes 47 actions under the responsibilities of 11 departments. The action plan focuses on ICT and welfare technology. Universal design work is also followed up in other important areas of society, such as buildings, transport and outdoors. The opposition refers to the vision and ambition of a universally designed Norway by 2025 and points out that this ambition has been removed by today's government. The government has an ambition for a universally designed Norway, but realizes that this cannot be achieved by 2025. The majority of the Committee – Right, Advance Party and Left – refer to a scenario project carried out last year in cooperation with users and user organisations. The theme was the space for action to reach the vision of a universally designed society by 2025. The conclusion was that one has to look beyond 2025, that more time will be needed to achieve the objectives in all areas of society. The recommendation from the scenario project is that universal design should be given a high priority and that sub-strategies and action plans should be developed for the different sectors. Work must be seen in the context of ongoing or planned development processes, as the government has said it will follow up. The Committee points out that it is important and imperative that users be involved in the ongoing work of universal design and that their views be disseminated to those who are to take the decisions. State buildings have stuck to the vision of a universally designed society by 2025. They have an action plan to ensure that all buildings managed by Statsbyggen are universally designed by 2015. That's very good. They've done a systematic and good job. The work they have done should teach others, and it should be transferred to other parts of the administration. As regards websites, it is statutory that all existing and new websites addressed to the public should be universally designed by 2021. So luckily, some good things happen too. The proposers propose to include the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the Human Rights Act in order to give precedence to the Convention in Norwegian law. The majority of the Committee, all its members except SV and Left, refers to the ratification by the Stortinget of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2013. The majority believe that human rights of people with disabilities are respected in today's laws and treaties. Universal design shall be ensured in municipal and regional planning in accordance with § 5-1 of the Planning and Building Act. It is important that universal design is constantly on the agenda, and that municipalities and county councils receive good guidance on the use of planning tools to achieve accessibility objectives for all. A community network of 60 municipalities is established under the auspices of the KS to help provide municipalities with competence and increased resources to strengthen universal design. To achieve the objective of a universally designed society, the main challenges are existing buildings, outdoors and infrastructure. The provisions of the Law on Construction and Design shall apply to universal design requirements when renovations and alterations to buildings and structures are to be carried out. On the other hand, the Committee wishes to speed up progress towards the objective of accessibility for all and points out in its comments that step-by-step solutions to achieve basic accessibility can be a step towards the establishment of a higher-quality universal design somewhat later on. In conclusion: SV does not receive a majority for all its 26 proposals for a universally designed society here today. As I said, many of the proposals have already been incorporated and put into practice. However, the Committee shares the intention of the proposers and it is a co-opted committee that will work specifically to achieve the objective of a society accessible to all.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1049	Often we hear the following from the position when there are debates in this Chamber: «After eight years of red-green government...» Yes, after eight years of red-green government we have now had four years with a blue-blue government, and it is difficult to see that there has been special progress in work on universal design. In a thorough response letter from the Council of State, she refers to the status of a number of areas. As far as I can read the answer, everyone is a result of initiative after eight years of red-green government. I can't see a single new initiative from the Solberg government on universal design. Rather the opposite. The government has changed its policy in a number of areas that are important for creating a more universally designed society. The building regulations have been proposed to be amended in such a way that fewer dwellings will be furnished with a universal design. The theory is that not so many people are needed because not everyone needs a home like this. It must mean that people with different forms of disability should not have the same possibility of visits and social intercourse as others. The working party is opposed to balancing construction costs with poor offers for those who have a disability. The transport sector has major challenges and it is demanding to change because there is a high cost of investment needed in the sector. It is a long-term work that requires systematic work to be done on this, and it must be high on the agenda. It is therefore of concern that the objective of universal design as a primary objective has been removed in the mandate made to the departments in the work on the national transport plan. Budgets also have few traces of universal design in the transport sector. The working party expects the government to re-establish it as a primary objective of the plan to be presented. If not, there will be a break in universal design work in the transport sector. Another major step backwards is the proposal to establish a common law on equality and discrimination. We believe that this is wrong, both for equality and for the fight against discrimination. Attention to both parts of the same law means that the focus is diluted. But if the majority were to make the mistake of changing the law, universal design, of course, must shape the work. In its letter of reply, the Council refers to the school-building rate compensation scheme in relation to the status of school builders, but does not disclose that the investment framework has been exhausted. Here, too, there will be a stopover – no new projects that can help upgrade old school buildings. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal to municipalise the resource area. Organisations warn against this, and when even the high-profile proposal in the previous period, if service dogs have continued after the evaluation, it is difficult to see what the government wants with universal design. Over eight years with a red-green government, we presented two action plans for universal design. We changed the law and gave arrangements that allowed the municipalities to make changes. We had universal design as our primary goal in NTP, and we provided systematic work in State Building. Now we've had four years of rest cutting in the work of universal design. The plan presented by the government is toothless and timeless. That is why the Labour Party believes that we must have a new, comprehensive plan. It needs to be updated with the status and new cost estimates as needed. That is why we will vote in favour of that point in the SV proposal today. It doesn't mean in any way that we're against the other proposals, but we see the need to restart, figure out what the costs are, and see what we need to do. That's why we believe that we need a comprehensive plan covering the entire spectrum of universal design. We believe that this is done by means of proposal No. 1, and I'll take up the proposal, which we're with the SV and the Center Party about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1068	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1073	I want to start by thanking Andersen and Eidsvoll Holmås representatives for addressing this important topic, which I think we all have a common commitment around. Then I have to say – when I heard the post for the previous speaker, Rigmor Aasrud – that I was a little stunned. One would almost think that the post was written before the committee dealt with the matter. It is also clear that it is approaching election campaigns, because it is rare that I hear a post in this room that is so full of polemics, but that does not go into the concrete proposals that we are dealing with here today. The Progress Party has long been concerned that everyone should be able to participate in the same line in society. We have always focused on people with disabilities being given the same opportunities as everyone else to function in society as far as possible. It is necessary to facilitate the widest possible participation of people with disabilities and in several areas, one being universal design. But the government has done a lot in the world of work when we've moved on and made it easier for more people with disabilities to participate in the world of work. Society must facilitate disabled people by following the principles of universal design for public buildings and for public spaces. Here it is worth mentioning that the public at many levels must play together, and all levels must be fully conscious of their responsibilities. For example, the municipalities are largely responsible for large parts of the public space and must be in the driving seat, but there is no excuse for municipalities to say that government requirements are not detailed enough, etc., when they build themselves. In addition, it is the municipalities as planning authority that must set the right and locally adapted requirements for builders. This applies regardless of whether the developer is private or whether it is the public developer. When it comes to the universal design of the private space, it's not as simple. We simply can't always demand the full universal design of the entire private sphere. Some in this room seem to be right, but one completely forgets the rather significant cost side of this, for expenditure arising from universal design is largely necessary. But it is not necessary to impose on all construction requirements for equal universal design of all areas. In the worst case, there is a need to increase housing costs in such a way that many low income groups in society fall outside the housing market. I would therefore argue that the best intentions can lead to poor solutions. Therefore, it is far better to define where and when universal design is required. Yes, universal design shall be required for the public space, even when the public space is privately owned. In the case of already existing public spaces that were built before the universal design requirement came, we should be ambitious, but realistic in terms of how quickly they can be rebuilt. To a large extent, universal design should be designed in spite of major structural maintenance or upgrades. Finally, I would like to say that it is clear that the government takes this seriously, and not least that the responsible and also coordinating state council has a good and balanced plan for how to achieve the common goal we all have of having a society where everyone has the opportunity to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1088	I want to thank the representatives Andersen and Eidsvoll Holmås for having put universal design on the Stortinget agenda and to facilitate the participation of disabled people in society's normal working life as far as possible. It's an important problem. The representative proposal contains a number of proposals, and the government is already well on the way in a number of those fields. To some extent, the proposers also open the doors with this Document 8. In other matters, the proposal points to aspects of universal design where the government has not yet achieved its objectives. In the event of an incurrence, the Left in the Committee has not been included in proposals Nos. 3, 5 and 20, from the Socialist Left Party, but we are going to vote for the proposals in the Chamber today. As regards proposal No: 3, implying that the Storting asks the Government to propose the inclusion of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities – CRPD – in the Human Rights Act to give precedence to the Convention in Norwegian law. Like the European Convention on Human Rights, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the United Nations Convention on Women, the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights and the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the CRPD Convention should also be incorporated into Norwegian legislation. It is important to ensure the rights of disabled people and to ensure that the CRPD takes precedence in Norwegian legislation. We know from, among other things: NOU 2016: 17 ‘On the same line. Eight promises to realise fundamental rights for persons with developmental disabilities’ means that disabled persons are still outside much of today’s Norway. The inclusion of the CRPD will be an important step towards strengthening the rights of a small but vulnerable group, and we therefore support the proposals contained in this Document 8. As regards proposal No: 5 – it is also an important proposal from Andersen and Eidsvoll Holmås representatives – it has long been a goal for existing buildings to be universally designed. The Planning and Building Act provides the Ministry with the opportunity to provide regulations to achieve this. In 2013, together with the Research Institute IRIS, Norway’s Handicap Association carried out a survey of primary schools in Norway. It turned out that 80 pst. there were significant shortcomings in the availability of schools; there is an indication of how much remains to ensure universal design in public buildings. The responsibility for this delay lies well with the Stoltenberg II government, of which SV itself was part, but I am still concerned that the Left must support this proposal, for the need for a state system that can contribute to a partial financing and upgrading of public buildings is important. As regards proposal No: 20, where the government is asked to set up an advisory body composed of civil society actors to look at the rights of people with disabilities, there is also a proposal that we want to support. We believe that giving these actors a stronger voice in universal design will be an important prerequisite for achieving Norway's offensive objectives in this field. The closure of the National Council for the Equality of Persons with Disabilities in 2011-2012 has weakened this group's voice in the debate on universal design, and we appreciate the promise made in this case. I hope that this representative proposal has helped to shed light on something that is important. Universal design is important to our society, so that those with disabilities should not be hindered from being part of an equal society. Much is already done, but much remains before we can achieve the goal of a fully universally designed society. Therefore, it is also important to ensure a stable legal basis for those with disabilities, so that we give this group a strong voice in deciding over their own everyday life and their own future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1105	The struggle for a universally designed society is an important struggle for SV. It's important because it's about the ability to participate on equal terms. It's about seeing that all people are different, and that some meet with societal barriers and obstacles, and it's about political ability and willingness to tear down the barriers and obstacles that exist, and create a society for everyone. We know that a universally designed society is a good society for more people, whether we're rocking baby carriages, hopping around on crutches or getting weakened vision when we're enriched by time and numbers. Because there are questions that concern us all, and because it's absolutely crucial for some and those involved, it's particularly sad that the ambitions in the field are as low as they are. It's odd that we have a government that, through a passive attitude, takes note that it's demanding to achieve a universally designed society, and rather chooses to weaken ambitions rather than to increase efforts and seek for clear goals. I am pleased that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are united in proposing an action plan for a universally designed society. I wish there were support for several of the proposals, although I understand that everyone has to see them in connection with their budgets. But I think it would be possible, with a little bit greater will, to agree on more than what we are doing today, especially considering that most, if not all, of the proposals that are being dealt with, that are promoted by the SV, have their origins in organizations that know where the shoe prints, and that know what needs to be changed in order for more equivalency to be achieved. It is particularly true that we cannot even agree on what has been the government's objective until now, for example, the service dog scheme mentioned in the Government Declaration. Obviously, there are some points of light here. It is very gratifying and fine that an overall committee is underpinning the government's work on new construction regulations to ensure the universal design of society. I have thought that this can only be seen as an overall demand for a change in TEK17, and I have interpreted it as an enormous victory, because it will mean that you can take your girlfriend home whether you are rustling on your feet or rolling off your backyard, that you can continue to live where you live, even if unforeseen things happen and you yourself or the kids end up in an accident, and that you can invite all your colleagues at dinner – if you have room for it – also those who have a swing radius when they are going to do. But when I heard the post of the representative of Wiborg from the Progress Party, I was very uncertain about what this consensus really is about. I have not understood in any way that it was the construction industry that would decide who could come to visit, and there is no reason to say that it is automatically cheaper if you just remove the possibility of someone coming in. Then I need to make a clarification on the SV's side, and this is a comment related to the work of the common equality and discrimination law. SV stands on the point that we want our own equality law and not a common law, but we will – of course – be concerned about whether a possible new law will properly protect people with disabilities. I would like to comment on the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1118	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1124	Like the Committee and the proposers, the Government's vision is also a society where everyone can participate. Therefore, the government is actively working for a universally designed society. The Government has presented a Universal Design Action Plan for the period 2015–2019 with close to 50 actions on the responsibilities of the 11 departments. The plan focuses on ICT and welfare technologies and also pursues work in other key societal areas. Universal design affects individuals and society. I am pleased that there is a broad and cross-political consensus that universal design must be the basis of a society in which everyone can participate. Many are impatient in this field, and I am one of them. At the same time, we must be realistic. It is not all that can be solved as easily and quickly, but concrete objectives have been set for the implementation of universal design in some areas. State buildings have an overall objective that all the buildings they manage should be universally designed by 2025, and it is statutory that all websites addressed to the public should be universally designed by 2021. At the same time, the challenges of making existing buildings and outdoor areas are universally designed. Here we have to look further ahead before we can say that we're in the goal. The municipalities also have a responsibility here and have major tasks in this area. Some municipalities have been good at implementing universal design and have upgraded both building mass and outdoor areas. These can be good examples for others. The government supports the important work of the municipalities, including: by providing support for a network project run by KS. 60 municipalities and counties participate in this network. This broad cooperation allows municipalities to learn from each other and increases their competence in the work of a universally designed society. As a basis for moving on to a universally designed society, we must have good and realistic goals. I have therefore asked the Directorate to complete a scenario project that can give us a more detailed answer on what action spaces exist and how work can be carried out in the different areas. I have asked the directorate to ensure that the stakeholder organisations are directly involved in the further process of the scenario project. In a short time, the government will present a proposal for a common law on equality and discrimination. In the proposal, which was at wide consultation, the government proposed that universal ICT design requirements be imposed in the education and training sector, from primary to higher education. It will make it easier for students and students with disabilities to attend ordinary education, and it will make it easier for parents with disabilities to follow up their children. This was something that the red-green government failed to do when the Discrimination and Availability Act was revised in 2013. The strong protection against discrimination in the Discrimination and Availability Act has been proposed – once we have had it at the hearing – continued in the proposal for a new law. The EU is now working on a directive on the availability of goods and services. This Directive is EEA-relevant and therefore also important for Norway. We do not yet know exactly what the Directive will cover for goods and services, but it will form the basis for legislation in this area in Norway. The new Technical Construction Regulation, TEK 17, is now under preparation and is given a lot of attention. These include: an important discussion on universal design and accessibility simplifications. The government will ensure the universal design of society in the work on the new regulations. Good dialogue with the interest and user organisations of disabled persons is important for the government. I invite myself annually to a political round table meeting with the organisations to discuss current issues, where the organisations themselves can come up with suggestions on issues that they want to address with the government. At these round table meetings, both state councils and state secretaries from most departments have been present. A new meeting will be set up in the near future. Coordination and coordination of policies for people with disabilities between different departments and between different levels of government such as state, county and municipality will be an important theme, which is also a response and a wish of the organisations themselves. It is important to have a good starting point to discuss what action is needed to pursue. Then we need an overview of where the problems lie, and what they do. An important status overview is Norway’s reporting to the UN on the CRPD, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1159	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1164	As I said in my post, I would like to commend the Council of State for having answered very carefully the questions that were sent from the committee, and for having endorsed the status of the 26 proposals that were there. The 26 proposals are well-known areas, which have been working for a long time through changing governments. It is difficult to see what the Council of State itself has initiated. Therefore, I could imagine asking: What three things is the Council of State most satisfied with – and for which she herself has taken the initiative in the government – in terms of universal design?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1169	It is easy in such debates to discuss who it was that came first, and who it is that has prioritised this area the highest. Are they in the last period of government, or are they in the present? What I think we can all emphasize is that having a universally designed society is a vision and a goal for all the parties on this greatness. It's important to bring it with you. The universal design of society takes place in many departments. I coordinate that work now, and if I am allowed to answer the question of what I think is the most important thing I have come up with as a Minister for Gender Equality, I would like to underline the Universal Design Action Plan, with the emphasis on ICT and welfare technology, which is a major step and has important measures for this group. Then there is work on a new common law on equality and discrimination, and the fact that we are now lifting ICT into the Discrimination Act, with which the previous government has not done anything. Strengthening the protection of people with disabilities is also an important measure I want to raise.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1180	The Council of State mentions two specific points: an action plan and a common law on equality and discrimination. Does the State Council feel that she has received good feedback from user organisations on the choices she makes by providing a common equality and discrimination law? Does the State Council feel that the action plan has been well received in the organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1185	Yes, as far as the Universal Design Action Plan is concerned, I feel that user organisations have been satisfied with the focus on ICT and welfare technology. There will always be some people who are dissatisfied, that it should be bigger, that there should be faster implementation of some things, and of course that there should be more resources. But I would like to stress that the government is now working on a comprehensive report to make what the government is doing in this area visible, not only in the ministry of the undersigned, but also in the other departments, which have important measures and many resources — including financial resources — especially in the field of transport, on this important topic. With regard to the proposal for a common equality and discrimination law, which has been at the hearing, and the reinforced efforts we are making in the field of ICT in schools for people with disabilities, I feel that we are getting good feedback from the organisations on that consultation proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1192	My question to the Council of State relates to the understanding of the Committee's comment, which reads as follows: ‘The Committee refers to the input from the Norwegian Handicap Association and assumes that the government in its work on a new construction code ensures the universal design of society.’ [[TEK17]] It is clear that it can be perceived in several ways, at least when you hear the debate here. That is why I wonder how the Council of State sees the Committee's comment, and what consequences this will have for the government's work on construction regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1202	I think it's a committee that's very concerned about this particular issue, and that's something we're going to take with us. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has consulted on the proposal for a new technical regulation in the Planning and Building Act. The main aim has been to have a simpler and clearer regulatory framework that contributes to a reduction in construction costs. There are too many complex requirements for housing, which make it expensive to build, and which can make it more difficult to get into the housing market. The government takes accessibility and universal design seriously, and in the proposal for a new TEK17, the requirements for housing to be available to disabled persons are passed on from TEK10. The same applies also to the requirements for which construction should be universally designed. This is something that we're going to take with us when we're going to work on the TEK17.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1211	It is very clear what the Norwegian Handicap Association believes about TEK17. This is, of course, the fundamental view on which the Committee is based, in the requirement that TEK17 should ensure the universal design of society. Then I wonder what kind of initiative the Council of State, which has the coordinating responsibility for the policy of people with disabilities, will face its colleagues in order to make the necessary changes and take action to achieve the goal that an overall committee has now set for TEK17 and a universally designed society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1216	These regulations are under the authority of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, and these regulations are now being reviewed, which have been consulted. I can assure the representative that the municipal minister also reads comments from a committee and sees what signals the Stortinget wants to give to the government. What is the answer to that question is that the government will ensure the universal design of society in its work on new construction regulations, which are TEK17.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1221	Then I wonder about something about service dogs, because the government statement says: ‘Revise the test system with service dogs with a view to making it more similar to the guide dog system for blind and partially sighted.’ Now reference is made to the small experimental scheme that has been in place and that no decision has been taken on whether to introduce it as a permanent scheme. When we see that the goal is to make the service dog system equal to that of a guide dog, is it that the blind and the feeble have reason to fear the future without a guide dog, or does anyone who has had the joy of a service dog can have a brighter future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1231	I thank you for the question. As the representative is also aware, the service dog project has been evaluated and has now been evaluated. As the representative pointed out in the government statement, the government will review that system with a view to making it more similar to the guide dog system. It is important that the scheme now be considered as a complement to the other service provision. But now that we have this evaluation, this is something that the government is working on to see how we can make the system more similar to the guide dog system that is there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1237	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1244	This is a matter of great goodwill, but too little action. This is not about allowing anyone to participate, it is about ensuring that everyone is equivalent and able to use the institutions of society — yes, everything — on equal terms, regardless of their function. We're incredibly patient on behalf of those who don't have that opportunity. Plans are good, but plans have to be realized, and it's going to cost money. I see the minister looking worried. Yes, it's going to cost money, that's why it's so necessary to have a schedule, so you can measure against what you get done every year to achieve this goal. By removing an objective of achieving a target within a period of time, you free yourself — of course — from being measured on it. That's easy. It is also easy to say that the municipalities should do so, but here the government has to take management in a completely different way from what you have done. I think the round we've had now, about TEK17, shows this. I understand that the Council of State really has no intention of doing anything, despite the fact that she has coordinating responsibility for this area. It is with shame to report that if you build small apartments in the center of Oslo, they will be sold for the price for which they are sold – that is the market price, and I thought maybe the Progress Party and the Right knew a little about that. That's the way it is, so it's not going to be cheaper homes either. Here, therefore, disabled people are pushed in front of them in the fight to make more money for those who build homes and that fewer homes should be available. We've run away from them, we don't need any more such homes in Norway. It shows that you have not thought that people should be allowed to live where they want, that they should be able to visit by whom they want, and that they should be able to live there their whole lives. We used to call it life-cycle homes. That's a concept I wish we could start talking more about again. We don't have to build more of this now, at least we don't have to trick anyone into saying that there's going to be cheaper homes of that. Just look at the latest statistics that came yesterday, about housing prices and construction costs — they are not at all linked. I think that's a good example, which shows you're not going to do this, because there are other interests that govern. There are a lot of points in our proposal. I can honestly say that they have been developed in close cooperation with user organisations, which are not at all satisfied with the government's action plan, which is not satisfied with the government's ability to implement and are not at all satisfied with the government's plans for a common law on discrimination. I'm against it, and I'm mainly against it because it's a long way to go before the Discrimination and Accessibility Act for people with disabilities has settled in all organs. It needs its own protection in the future, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1257	The Council of State was clear in its statement that the government has a vision and an ambition to achieve a universally designed society where everyone can participate, and that it must work systematically and purposefully, so that we can achieve that goal more quickly. The Government’s Universal Design Action Plan places great emphasis on ICT and welfare technologies, including: better universally designed ICT solutions in the education sector, which will allow more people with disabilities to participate in education in the same way as others. The action plan also focuses on the development of new technologies in the welfare field, which can help to make more disabled people more self-reliant in everyday life and need less help. It's a big wish for most of us to be as much self-held as possible. We still have too many buildings and outdoor areas that are not universally designed. Stavanger is one of a few Norwegian cities that have their own plans for how the city can develop universal design by 2021. Identifying, prioritizing and developing action plans are important steps on the way to achieving targets. Norway’s Handicap Association has pointed out in particular that schools need to be universally unqualified in order to provide equal opportunities for education for all children. It is important that municipalities and county municipalities give priority to this and make action plans to achieve the objectives. The government has a historic commitment to transportation, with a budget of 63 billion. kr in 2017. In the field of transport, universal design will be an integral part of all plans for substantial upgrading and construction of new infrastructure. This is an example of how the government systematically raises universal design in a very central area of society. The KS has initiated and established a local community network focusing on competence and progress in universal design work. 60 municipalities and county councils are involved, and municipalities can share experiences and learn from each other. The government supports KS in this work. This week, the government spends grants on which municipalities can apply. The implementation of these KS funds is concerned with systematics and concrete results in terms of universal design. Systematic records of buildings and outdoor areas with objectives of upgrading to universal design are one of the criteria. In my own county, I see that the municipality of Oppegårde receives grants for a competence programme for universal design to ensure that the municipality has up-to-date competence and uses it actively, both in the field of development and in the development of municipal services. This is the way to go to achieve the goal of a more universally designed society. The identification and development of action plans must be systematically pursued, the availability of funds must be ensured, and deadlines must also be set.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1272	I've brought with me to the pulpit a proposition that the government has just made, Prop. 64 L for 2016-2017. It deals precisely with the services that the representative from the Right was now up and talking about. And what does that proposition say? Well, in that proposition it says that municipalities should be given more emphasis on municipal discretion in terms of these services than they have done before. The County shall also pay more attention when checking complaints received. This means that you are weakening the rights of some of the people you are talking about, who need the law to actually be followed – and not being stretched and taken away in the municipalities. I also perceive that the government is going the wrong way. Yeah, it's true that there's a part going on in transportation. It is ambitious plans that have been there before. And actually, there's a legal basis there, so it should just be lacking that you don't follow up on the transport projects you're implementing, with the universal design requirements, which are actually there. In the case of ICT, the government should be commended for having worked well with it. But when they at the same time play with the idea of moving the utility area to the municipalities, some of this helps very little. These are professional environments that need great – yes, I would almost say robust – environments of competence. Today, we have that in the aid centres, and they should be strengthened and not weakened by spreading outwards. ICT is a demanding field. You need, because you have a disability, to use ICT in an adapted way, whether it's in school, at work or in everyday life, you need environments to talk to who's big and competent. It cannot be allocated to each municipality or to each school, and the responsibility cannot be imposed on the individual at all. I am sorry that I do not feel that there is any ‘driving’ on this. That is why we – and I am glad that the Workers' Party and the Centre have agreed – believe that we need to set a deadline. It is, of course, scary to set such deadlines, because then it is possible to measure on it. But I've never heard of anyone who reaches a goal they've never set. It happens in this area, and I think it's because this case often ends up in what I call a cotton dot of goodwill. Everyone has very good intentions, but when it comes to chalk, there are other parts of society that get the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1283	It was the first post of the representative Karin Andersen that made me redraw. The fact that you have good intentions is good. And I think we all share the common goal. At the same time, however, we must always look at whether the instruments we have will actually work, whether they are proper instruments, and what the impact of the instruments will be, even though perhaps with the best intentions we can propose certain instruments. When the representative Karin Andersen stands on this platform and claims that costs have no bearing on the price, I think that is a strange logic. It is obvious that if we impose significant costs and costs for, for example, builders, someone has to take that bill. And finally, consumers always take the bill. We in the Progress Party are willing to make demands, including demands that cost money. But we think you have to go in and see if the requirements are reasonable in relation to what we get back. That is why we have good and important requirements for universal design, especially in public space – both for the public and for the private. But we can't get into that setting that we come up with a lot of different demands that cost considerable sums, which then means that a completely different group has to work – typically young first-time starters, people with weak economies, who the Socialist Left is often happy to talk about. But we know that those who are really affected by the policies of the Socialist Left Party, the poorest and the weak economy, who now want to make it harder to get into the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1292	The representative, Karin Andersen, has had the word twice before and thus gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1297	If it had not been so serious, it would have been quite comical to hear representatives from the Progress Party almost claim that we do not have a completely free housing market where the price is established in the market. That's what it does. These small dwellings, which should not be universally designed, and which should not be accessible to everyone in the population, are going to be built in the center, because that's what you say, and there's the market price that applies. And all the statistics show that when construction costs are almost flat, prices increase dramatically. People pay and compete with each other at price. If the requirements are to be, it is said that they impose significant costs. So you say that if you're disabled, you put other significant costs on it. No, it's actually a social responsibility for us to make sure it's not like that. The servants of this are the builders of the houses. They make more, because they can build cheaper, and the price is going to be the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1302	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1316	The President cannot see that the President is in the Chamber and believes that he – as a member of two committees – also has something else to do today. No one else has asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1339	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Left and Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens the proposals No 4 and 5, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 6, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to impose the use of Norwegian oil and gas and Norwegian Industry’s negotiated standard contracts when the Johan Castberg field is extended.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1371	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the landing of oil from the Johan Castberg field to Finnmark to trigger local ring effects.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an area solution for the fields around Johan Castberg – with a view to requiring an area solution for power to prevent increased greenhouse gas emissions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1393	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that plans for the development and operation of the Johan Castberg field ensure the use of power-from-land solution or other renewable or emission-free energy supply for the power and heat demand for the operation of the field.’ [[PUD]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests an energy solution study for Svalbard, where a power cable with power-from-land solution for the Johan Castberg field is included as an option.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1415	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for further action on the petroleum activity at the Loppa Height to be required by the Government to provide an area solution with power from land, which ensures that the Johan Castberg field can be electrified later.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1448	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to impose its negotiated standard contracts on the use of Norwegian oil and gas and Norwegian Industry when the Skarfjell field is extended.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1465	There was an error from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1470	Then there are 97 representatives who voted against the Socialist Left proposal and 4 who voted in favour. The proposal has thus been rejected. Six representatives voted in favour of the Socialist Left in the previous voting. Is there anyone from SV who has not voted now – the president will remind you that it is mandatory to vote. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1493	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The President noted that the proposals No. 2 and 3, from the Central Party, was not taken up during the debate. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1726	Alternatively, between the proposal for a clause 8-30 and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law of 28 February 1997 No. Paragraphs 8 to 30 shall be replaced by the following: § 8-30 Sickness benefit basis where the social security provider provides sickness benefit Where sickness benefit is provided by the social security institution, the sickness benefit basis is determined on the basis of the monthly income in question. [[§§ 8-28 and 8-29]] The annual income after the first subparagraph is compared with the annual pension income determined on the basis of the average of the pension credits determined for the last three years. [[see § 3-12]] The average score is converted into pensionable annual income on the basis of the basic amount at the time when the employee became unemployed. If there is more than 15 per cent difference between the recalculated annual income after the first subparagraph and the pensionable annual income after the second subparagraph, the sickness benefit basis shall be determined by judgement on the basis of the annual income that can be remunerated at the time when the employee was unemployed. For an employee who becomes unemployed in a fixed-term employment relationship of less than six months, the sickness benefit basis shall be determined after the first subparagraph, even if this sickness benefit basis differs more than 15 per cent from the sickness benefit basis after the third subparagraph. This applies only to the period during which the employment was due. Thereafter, sickness benefits may be provided in accordance with the third subparagraph if the member can document loss of income.» The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1769	It is then voted over Section 22-13 new eighth paragraph. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1783	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1794	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1804	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1813	A total of 26 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2–26, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 4, 6–19 and 21–26, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks that the interest-rate compensation scheme for the rehabilitation of school and swimming facilities be given a new investment framework and that universal design requirements for the buildings covered by the scheme be laid down and that planning and incentives are established so that public buildings in the municipality can be universally designed by 2025.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the anti-discrimination legislation to include the right to information, goods and services for people with disabilities.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present concrete proposals and a timetable for dyslexia and dyscalcule training in all Norwegian schools.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to ensure that cultural and sporting arenas and buildings are accessible to all.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the objectives and efforts of the national transport plan must be coordinated with the objective of an accessible Norway by 2025 and a universally designed society by 2035.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals on how to ensure the provision of assistance to disabled people at major traffic stations and hubs.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider and, where appropriate, to make proposals to ensure that establishments targeting the public are working systematically to ensure that their communication and information are universally designed.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that school syllabus is provided in the format that disabled students need in order to be able to participate fully in the training.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose a gradual introduction of texting, visual and sign language interpretation requirements for content on all media and surfaces.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for incentives for research and development of universally designed ICT and welfare technologies.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider the introduction of a requirement for accessibility as an entry requirement for public support to cultural organisers’.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose the introduction of a requirement for different forms of interpretation at cultural and sporting events, including interpretation of writing, visual and sign language.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure a free accompanying arrangement at all types of cultural and sporting events receiving public support, including the solution for ordering tickets online with electronic accompanying certificate.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that disabled people are allowed to be accompanied by escorts in the exercise of leisure activities’.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that polling facilities and political meeting rooms must be accessible to people with disabilities’.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking for an offer of interpretative services and other similar assistance in the context of political meetings.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the system of travel at work and training for those with permanent mobility difficulties is extended to political participation.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all information on security and preparedness is provided in a format accessible to all’. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all construction and means of transport are equipped with evacuation equipment to ensure safe evacuation of disabled persons.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that emergency plans for disasters also take account of disabled people.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the new Technical Regulation TEK17, to avoid rules that reduce the degree of universal design of society, including any deterioration of the requirements for the wheelchair snuff circle.’» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the service dog system is more similar to the guide dog system for the blind and partially sighted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1947	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 5 and 20, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals to include the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the Human Rights Act, in order to give the Convention primacy in Norwegian law.’ [[incorporating]] [[CRPD]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose a more binding regulatory framework for the universal design of existing buildings, installations, means of transport and infrastructure.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to restore a system that respects the functions that the Government’s Council for the Equality of Persons with Disabilities intended to ensure.’ The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e1976	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an action plan for an accessible Norway in 2025 and a universally designed society by 2035, including a concrete funding plan.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e2039	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e2050	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-21.ana.ud215e2105	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has been cancelled.
