ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e78	Ladies and gentlemen! I want to say that this is the last time Ruth Heyerdahl bends for Stortinget, and she bends herself with this out after 25 years of work to a retirement life. Thank you very much for the job you have done! [[Applause from the centre]] The called alternate of the More and Romsdal counties, Tove-Lise Torve, now takes the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e87	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament tomorrow Thursday – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Øyvind Halleraker. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is unanimously elected president of tomorrow’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e107	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 55 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e120	Today, Stortinget deals with the Report setting. St. 35, which is an update of the Norwegian Sea Management Plan. The Norwegian Sea Management Plan was presented for the first time in 2009 and the management plan sets out the long-term objectives for the management of our marine areas and facilitates the creation of value through the sustainable use of resources and ecosystems. At the same time, it shall facilitate the maintenance of the structure, functioning, productivity and natural diversity of ecosystems. Furthermore, the plan shall contribute to increased predictability, inter-industries co-existence based on the use of marine areas and the exploitation of marine resources. This update of the Norwegian Sea Management Plan reports on the implementation of the measures in the 2009 management plan and assesses the need for continuation and further action. Measures related to climate change, land management, environmental status, sustainable use, knowledge base and knowledge dissemination and further development of the management plan system are presented. The technical basis for the update concludes that the state of the environment in the Norwegian Sea is still good, but that it is subject to increasing pressure. These are, in particular, challenges related to climate change, the environment, marine pollution and industrial activities. The basis of expertise and proposals for action are well on track to pursue policies that have already been adopted. A number of areas have been identified that need increased protection against pollution and marine pollution and areas that are particularly vulnerable to climate change and marine acidification. Particular concern is the decline in marine bird and fish populations. Therefore, the particularly valuable and vulnerable areas need to be secured against activities that threaten the ecological function and natural diversity of the areas. The majority of the Committee agrees that measures need to be taken to ensure these areas, including: through the establishment of several marine protected areas. Marine litter and microplastics in the sea are an increasing problem. It is specifically mentioned in the message. Plastics and microplastics are transported with the ocean currents over large areas and are left far from the source. Marine litter includes waste both in the beach zone and in the sea. Plastics account for approx. 80 pst. waste in the sea on a global basis and the global supply of plastics to the sea is rapidly increasing. Fortunately, there is a big message, which we hope will address this issue and come up with measures that can be taken quickly. The 2009 management plan established the overall framework for petroleum activities in the Norwegian Sea, which have continued well along the way. However, the majority of the Committee is somewhat surprised that the government now wants to open up exploration or that new extraction permits can be granted for petroleum activities in areas referred to as particularly valuable and vulnerable areas in the management plan. This applies in particular to those areas where new and important coral deposits have been found and areas that are important for spring-watering fish – Sularevet, Fron and Iverygen – where the government is now proposing to allow petroleum activities in particularly valuable areas. The Working Party and the majority of the Committee believe that in these vulnerable areas petroleum activities shall not be carried out until a comprehensive marine protection plan for all the Norwegian sea areas has been submitted to the Stortinget and a fresh review has been carried out and knows what it will mean in that case. The notification also mentions future industries, such as fishing for new species, aquaculture, seaweed cultivation, wind power and mineral extraction. The Committee agrees that there is a potential for new industries, but it is important to stress that we need more knowledge of these activities and that they need to be explored in line with the main objective of the management plan to facilitate value creation through sustainable use and to maintain the structure, functioning, productivity and natural diversity of ecosystems. Petroleum industry is clearly the largest industry in the Norwegian Sea, measured in both value creation and employment. However, since 2014, the value creation of this industry and other marine industries has fallen due to lower oil prices, while the value creation and employment of the marine food industry have increased. The counties bordering the Norwegian Sea, Møre and Romsdal, the Trøndelagsfolken and Nordland have a significant share of Norway’s total activity in the fisheries sector. For many of the smaller coastal agglomerations, the marine sector is the most important industry in terms of housing and employment, and there is a potential for further development of this industry. Aquaculture is subject to authorisation under the Aquaculture Act. Since the 2009 allocation round, environmental considerations have become increasingly important and there is a cross-political consensus that further growth in the farming industry must be environmentally sustainable. Harvesting in the sea affects the fish stocks on which it is harvested and the ecosystem as a whole. However, unwanted by-catch is an unavoidable consequence of fishing activity. Fortunately, new methods are being developed to minimise such an impact. Using bottom trawls in areas of coral reefs or other valuable bottom fauna would have an undesirable impact on the bottom community. Fortunately, the number of bottom trawlers has decreased since 2009, and in 2011 a regulation regulating fishing with bottom trawlers in Norwegian jurisdictional areas was adopted. The Norwegian Sea is an important area of freight transport. Several of the largest ports are on exit to the Norwegian Sea. Narvik port, as I know very well, is Norway's second largest port and clearly the largest dry port, with an annual freight transport of more than 20 million tonnes, with a forecast of 5 pst. increase annually. It poses some challenges: the risk of acute contamination and the introduction of alien species, as well as the need to build a general preparedness for accidents. For biodiversity, the introduction of alien species is a threat. This is regulated by international conventions and during the year all ships will be required to have the necessary clean-up technology on board. Otherwise, the message mentions wind power. I would just like to stress that the Committee has dealt with this both in the context of the proposal for a representative and the energy communication, and it is probably a majority on the Stortinget who want a more offensive approach to this than the government outlines in the update of the management plan. Mineral deposits may also be present in the Norwegian Sea. The notification sets out the need for a regulatory framework to facilitate good resource management and environmentally and safety sound activities. This is in consultation now. It is very important that interoperability with other activities be taken into account when starting this type of new industry. Since the 2009 Norwegian Sea Management Plan was presented, knowledge of the seabed, especially in the valuable and vulnerable areas, has been reinforced and confirmed by MAREANO and several particularly valuable and vulnerable areas have been identified. Therefore, the identification of species and habitat types, as regards both prevalence and any damage caused, is important in order to assess the need for protection and the necessary boundaries. Knowledge of the prevalence of coral reefs in our marine areas is still limited, although we have gained new knowledge of certain corals and other habitat types that are important for marine biodiversity in recent years. For example, new coral structures are identified in the Sularevet. The icy edge zone is a continuous area from the east of the Barents Sea and far west of the Norwegian Sea. This is an area that constitutes a particularly productive marine ecosystem. As the ice melts and shrinks back over the summer, special conditions are created that produce high plankton production. The definition of the icy edge zone has been discussed in this room a number of times, most recently during the reporting process. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The government then submitted proposals for an updated calculation of the ice edge. To the great surprise of the majority, the government had chosen to move the entire ice edge northwards without carrying out a scientific and professional assessment of the area, where environmental advice and general consultation were used for the decision. This message was sent back to the government with the majority of the population's clear refusal to move the ice edge without a complete update of the Barents Sea and Maritime Management Plan outside Lofoten. The message was clear: Adhoco updating the ice edge is incompatible with long-term pre-war management of vulnerable areas. Against this background, we are now a little surprised that the government has again made a new map of the Vesterisen area in the Norwegian Sea without carrying out new professional assessments of this area. Therefore, in the context of the revision of the Barents and Marine Plan beyond the Lofoten 2020, the majority of the government is asking to provide a professionally up-to-date demarcation of the entire ice zone, including the Vesteris, and that this update must be based on the best available scientific knowledge. Finally, I am pleased that a broad majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment has agreed to set a deadline for the submission of a national marine protection plan to the Stortinget, by 2020 at the latest, in accordance with the provisions of the Nature Diversity Act and International Conventions. It is important to ensure the sound, sustainable management of our marine areas, so that we can also reap in the future the rich resources of the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e158	The management plans for our marine areas aim to facilitate the creation of value through the sustainable use of natural resources. The plans are intended to provide knowledge of environmental status and to contribute to the coexistence of different industries that harvest natural resources in different ways. This updated Norwegian Sea Management Plan also shows that the environmental status is good and that the different industries live well together. Yet, of course, there are challenges, and I think it's natural that marine pollution is brought forward in the message as the growing problem it is. The government and the cooperation parties can show that we have increased the appropriations for the cleaning up of the sea and the coast considerably, but we have to recognise that the problem is still growing, and that it is mainly due to plastic and other garbage coming our way with the ocean currents. The notification also provides an up-to-date overview of land use and land management. No major changes are announced for the oil and gas activities and the framework conditions are fixed. An important tool in land management, on the other hand, is the identification of particularly valuable and vulnerable areas, abbreviated SVO areas. Here, the government has followed up on the objective of the SVO concept, namely that activities in these areas should be carried out in a way that does not threaten the ecological functions of the areas or the diversity of nature. The Communication also explains that no monitoring results have been obtained to justify changes in the SVO delimitation but that it is necessary to investigate whether any specific types of geological occurrences meet the SVO criteria. Mrs. Sularevet and Mrs. Iverrygen have received special mention in the Committee's position, and I note that the majority believe that these areas should be closed to all petroleum activities. The Right Party and the Advance Party support the Government's assessments and indicate that specific restrictions have been imposed on petroleum activities in these areas. In this context, it is also possible to highlight the importance of the MAREANO programme and how it contributes to increased knowledge of environmental status in the particularly valuable and vulnerable areas. MAREANO has been strongly strengthened over the budgets in recent years, and this Communication shows that the funds are being used in a good way. Norway has obligations under the Convention on Biological Diversity and a Convention on the Conservation of the Marine Environment of the North Atlantic. Four marine protected areas have already been established in the coastal zone and in fjords and six marine protected areas where coral reefs are protected from bottom gears in the Norwegian Sea. The right is satisfied that the government will continue to work on a comprehensive national marine protection plan, which we also support in one of the proposals that came up in committee. The message also gives a good overview of the status of this work, and it is strange that a majority in the position claims that nothing has happened. It is also important to stress in this context that the provisions of the Nature Diversity Act on protection apply only within the territorial waters, or 12 nautical miles. For the Right, local involvement is also an important principle in all protection processes, and we have therefore chosen to emphasise in the recommendation that this work must be done in close dialogue with local authorities. The Norwegian Sea is an area rich in wildlife as well as fisheries. Unfortunately, we have seen declining populations of some seabirds. There are no clear conclusions on the reasons for this, and for some seabird populations, developments have also been positive. Nevertheless, it is positive that the government will draw up a national action plan for seabirds, a work which has also been allocated additional appropriations as a result of the budgetary agreement between the government and the cooperation parties. There is broad agreement on the long lines in the management of our seas, including the Norwegian Sea. It is a strength because it gives predictability to both those who are engaged in industry and value creation, and to the administration. The fact that a broad majority is also behind the recommendations in this position is therefore very positive. The right will vote in favour of the proposal to follow up the work of a comprehensive national plan for marine protected areas and to give particular priority to valuable and vulnerable areas in this work. On the other hand, we do not support proposal No. 2 in the vote, and that is mainly because we believe it is unclear what the proposal means. With regard to Froan with Sularevet and Iverygen, I have already explained our position. Finally, a few words about the edge of the ice and the edge of the ice. The right is in line with the majority’s proposal that an updated demarcation of the icy edge zone be made in the context of the revision of the Barents Sea Management Plan. As we make clear in our remarks, it is important to distinguish between the terms ‘ice edge’ and ‘ice edge’, where the former is the concept used in the management, while the ‘ice edge’ is intended to describe the natural phenomenon with an ice edge and areas that move along with the seasons. For the right, it is important that we maintain the concept of use and the definitions underlying current management, and that the framework of activity be continued until a possible new definition of the edge of ice is made on the basis of a comprehensive revision of the Barents Sea and the offshore management plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e183	Let me first thank the rapporteur for a good job. There has been an interesting process in the committee, and I think the committee has come up with good solutions in terms of updating the management plan in the Norwegian Sea. As the rapporteur pointed out, this is an update of a management plan presented in 2009, which has worked well. The environmental standard is good, and there is good co-existence between industries, where the environment is taken into account. Mostly, the framework for petroleum policy is solid, with a few changes, which also the speakers before me have been involved. Marine litter and microplastics in the sea have received a lot of attention in the notification. I'm glad. There is increasing attention also in this house and in society about that problem, and I am very pleased that the government is doing a good job both here and – not least – internationally. If you want to get rid of sewage and plastic in the sea, the international solution is the key, because it's the big international challenges. There is a good job done, and it is expected that the government will continue in the future as well. A few weeks ago, the government announced that they would establish an oil protection and environmental centre in the Lofoten/Westerålen, where the activity against marine pollution will form part of the portfolio. A national knowledge centre in this area is important, and I think it is an important and correct step that the government has taken in this way. I have great expectations that the center will be able to contribute. Some areas mentioned in the Communication are particularly valuable areas, and I am pleased that a unanimous committee has noticed that the management plan underlines that particularly valuable and vulnerable areas do not have a direct impact in terms of restrictions on activity, but signals the importance of showing particular care in these areas. It has been done so far – there is a good balance between industry, nature interests and protection interests. I think it is reassuring to be able to record that there is a unanimous committee that says. Marine protected areas are also an area that we have affected in the treatment. What is important there is to say that this must be done in close cooperation with local authorities. In the processes to be carried out with marine protection plans in coastal areas involving municipal and county municipalities, these points of view should be strongly emphasised. I think that would be a good way to anchor marine protected areas – taking the necessary care of municipalities and county municipalities. That's an important part of the job that's done. In the case of Fron, Sularevet and Iverryggen, there is a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, SV and the Green Party that propose that petroleum activities, including exploration and seismic shooting, should not occur until a marine protection plan has been submitted to the Stortinget. There's a different view of the Progress Party and the Right. We believe that the government in the paper has balanced those considerations in a good way, and that is also well described in the notice. But we're recording that there's a majority that makes other assessments. The edge of the ice has spent a lot of time verbally in the committee, but I think the committee has come up with good solutions in the form of the proposals that unite the majority, so that we get a new definition of the edge of the ice, starting from a comprehensive revision of the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside of Lofoten. I think we've come up with a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e200	I would also first like to thank the case rapporteur for his good management in this matter. The sea has been a source of wealth for Norway, and the resources we've been able to get from the sea have been absolutely vital for the first humans to settle up here in the north. But it also has a great responsibility to manage these resources in a good way. The management plans we have are a central tool in this way. Human activity has a cost for the environment. There's no doubt about it. In many cases, damage to ecosystems and species caused by human activity is irreparable. It is therefore necessary that we sometimes stop and think about the environment and future generations. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes it is right that it is not open to petroleum activities, including exploration and seismic shooting, in the particularly valuable areas of the Norwegian Sea. 13 years ago, in 2004, 36 candidate areas for marine protection were surveyed. As yet, no work has been undertaken on the development of a comprehensive marine protection plan, and no timetable has been set by the government for further work. This is where we need to move on. The candidate regions surveyed in 2004 need to be used as a basis for further work on marine protected areas. Together with new knowledge acquired on particularly valuable areas in the Norwegian Sea, a plan for the work on marine protection areas must be presented. However, this is not enough to fulfil Norway’s obligations under Aichi objective 11 — to protect 10 pst. by 2020. To date, Norway has only protected 1 pst. Of the sea areas, and by protecting all the 36 candidate areas, we will only have a share of 4 pst. marine protection. It doesn't get us into the goal, but the most important thing now is that we have to get started. The ice zone is the most important biological zone of life in the Arctic and is the location in the Arctic where climate change is going to have the most negative impact on the environment. Industrial activity here may have devastating consequences. Both acute and chronic oil pollution at the ice edge zone could have far greater ecological impacts than in other marine areas. Many species living in and at the edge of the ice are threatened with extinction. This applies to the Greenlandic whale, to several marine species, to whales, to ice seams and to polar bears. This is a place where the risk associated with oil and gas activities must not be placed at the top of the climate noise. The ice-cream zone therefore needs a very special protection. It's said that the edge of the ice is moving continuously, and that's right. But for those who have followed politics in the last ten years, the impression may be that it is moving fast and unexpectedly – from one big message to another. This is not sound management. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that, in the context of the revision of the Barents Sea Management Plan and the offshore areas outside the Lofoten, the government must provide a professionally updated demarcation of the entire ice zone, including the Vesteris, based on the best available scientific knowledge. This will give us a professional basis for discussing the ice edge zone and a definition that stands out over the year. We need that. Then I will address the suggestions of which the Christian People's Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e221	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e226	As several speakers have pointed out, the Norwegian Sea management plan is a valuable update of the status of the area and the environmental situation in the area, and it also affects a number of the environmental challenges we see in the area. Marine littering, the care of important areas related to coral reefs and other valuable and protective occurrences, or to the extent that the balances that must be made between the various activities existing in the Norwegian Sea, are possible. There is no doubt that this is an important sea area with a great deal of activity in many different areas. I will link some comments to some of the moments that the Central Party is concerned with in the vote, and in particular the further work on marine protection areas in the Norwegian Sea. Marine protection areas in the Norwegian Sea have been discussed for a long time, together with marine protection areas in other parts of the country. 36 areas have been pointed out, and 12 of them are already protected. Some of these protected areas are also in the coastal zone and in the fjords. In Trondheimsfjorden, there are already three protected areas – Tauterrygen, Gaulosen and Rødberget in Rissa – so there is already a fairly comprehensive protection inside Trondheimsfjorden, which is the life-blood of Trundelägen in a number of activities. That is why I am surprised that the majority in the vote is not willing to make a stronger distinction between marine protected areas of the sea and marine protected areas of the coastal zone and of the fjords, because there is a completely different picture of conflict when it comes to protection in the sea than when it comes to protecting within the fjords. In marine areas, the picture of the conflict will be fairly transparent. To a large extent, there will be an issue of oil-related balances, of fishing activities and of shipping and, to the extent possible, of other activities, and this will make choices easier to make. Therefore, there is no problem for the Central Party today to be involved in saying that we believe that the Mørebanken, Iverrygen, Fron and Sularevet are among the areas that should be covered by a marine protection. But we are very surprised that, in particular the Right Party and the Advance Party – and also the Workers' Party, which is strong in Trøndelag – are not willing to go further into the issues of further marine protection in the coastal zone and in the fjords. As I mentioned, significant areas in Trondheimsfjorden have already been protected, and the picture of conflict in terms of protection in fjords is quite different. There is a conflict of activity and not least private ownership. And there's not exactly any wilderness we're talking about here. There is not exactly any wild field a shall protect if you are to protect Børgin and Skarsundet. It is the core areas of Trondheimsfjorden, and there is strong resistance in the affected municipalities to this protection. The centre party is of the opinion that these types of areas should not be protected without a local connection to that protection, and we would like to give it a clear signal in the work to be done with regard to further marine protection. Otherwise, we agree with some of the proposals in the position, also in the considerations of protection at sea and what is otherwise said about the ice edge. The ice-edge discussion is a strange discussion, which tends to appear occasionally. It is strange why it is to be incorporated suddenly into the Norwegian Sea Management Plan. I think it's natural that someone takes that discussion under the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten. This will also provide the opportunity — and time required — to provide a professionally updated demarcation of the entire ice zone, when one is not to present that management plan before 2020. So I'm going to take up the suggestions that the Central Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e243	The representative Marit Arnstad then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e248	First, I would like to thank the Committee and the rapporteur for their thorough work on the management plan. I would like to support a large part of the contribution to the rapporteur, I think it was a thorough review of the matter, but I would also like to make some comments on the various parts. On the Norwegian Sea and the management plan: it is a huge maritime area, and the aim is to ensure sustainable ecosystem-based management. It is positive that the state of the environment is still characterised as good, as it was also in 2009. But at the same time, there are some big clouds in the horizon by facing an increase in global warming with higher sea temperatures and with a marine acidification that is difficult to see the consequences of today. In-depth assessments must be made of how this could also be achieved for the Norwegian Sea, while, of course, leading to the reduction of global warming and leading to the reduction of both Norwegian and international emissions. The importance and importance of this cannot be stressed enough, nor in this case. A lot of new knowledge has come, among other things. on seabirds, where the status of many species is descending. It is one thing we also discussed in depth in the nature diversity communication last year, where we also asked for an action plan to be drawn up – an action plan that is also funded by the budget for this year. That work is important, and it is also important to follow it up in the future. Several have pointed out that MAREANO has given significantly more knowledge — also a project that has been strengthened in each budget in recent years. It's given more knowledge about coral reefs and how many they are. Several have also been protected against bottom trawls. It is important, and it is important to do so in those areas where both coral reefs and fungal deposits have been detected, and other important areas. Then we've got an increased attention on marine litter. The left is satisfied that the budgets are now up to 40 million. kr from this year and the revised budget has further increased by 20 million. So it's $60 million. And we're starting to get a systematic job. But it is still early in that work, and the task is enormous, and it needs to be reinforced and systematised in all areas in the years to come. This isn't just about budgets, it's about the whole organisation of how we handle both a circular economy and the waste systems. Oil and gas are the largest industry in the area in terms of value, and in the cooperation agreement we have with the government parties, we are pleased by the Left that we secure the Moravian Bank from petroleum activity, but then it should be this way in this case that what is Block 6305, which is still part of the call for TFO areas, in the map of the management plan should also have been taken out, and that is something we are going to pursue in the years to come – just as we want to maintain that there should not be petroleum activities within Jan Mayen in the years to come. The discussion about the edge of the ice and the edge of the ice is also important, and we're taking it up here again. It must receive a knowledge-based treatment when it comes to the management plan for the Barents Sea and the Lofoten, the Western Sea and the Senja next time. On the left hand side, we would just like to insist that there must be the professional input from the Norwegian Polar Institute and others, and that here we have to look at the potential for ice-cream areas, and that this is what needs to be considered. So, finally, while I have time: the marine protection area. It is important that the Committee and the European Parliament now set a deadline for this review by 2020. The left is also very pleased that, with regard to the particularly valuable areas, with Froan, Sularevet and Iverback, we get a majority that there will be no petroleum activity there until we get a review and a decision on a marine protection plan. I would like to inform you that the Left will vote against II in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e267	Let me do it like Ola Elvestuen and start by correcting the setting at those exact points. Proposal No. 3 isn't going to be recorded by any of the parties that are behind it in the setting. II will not vote in favour of the Greens and the Greens, together with the Left. So we're going out of the comment attached to that proposal. This examination and this communication are drawn in many ways on the spirit of effort found in the Energy and Environment Committee. If it had not been for the nature diversity notification and the treatment of it, we would not have got this management plan for the Norwegian Sea up now. We have now set up a system of rotation of the management plans that will be followed in the years to come. That's good. The fact that the majority of the committee says no to oil drilling and oil activity on Iverygen, Fron and Sularevet is good. In fact, I think the Council of State should spend some time explaining why in all the world he found out that it was a good idea to open up oil drilling on Iverrygen, Fron and Sularevet. It's good that we clearly say no to oil there. We are now given a clear decision that we should have a marine protection plan – as stated in I – where we will take care of the particularly valuable areas, and we will have a case on this before 2020. It is the Storting that is impatiently pushing in many of these cases, and it is good that the government is following it up. We expect a new government to do the same after the election. It is good that there is now a broad consensus in the Committee on an Action Plan for Seabirds. This is something that came in connection with the treatment of the natural diversity message. I'm glad that not only is there money set aside for this, but that it's also an engagement from the government parties. That's good, because then we can get a wide majority. It's true, as Tina Bru says, it varies the extent to which the different tribes have fallen, but some of the bird tribes have fallen dramatically, like the lomvi with a drop of 98 pst. There is an increase in transport in the area, and there is a problem with congestion. Unfortunately, we in the committee are being cut off from dealing with this, because the Council of State has chosen not to present a big news about the circular economy in time for us to be able to deal with it properly. I'm sure we had secured a broad majority on several important decisions in that context. What is lacking, as several representatives have been involved in the past, is how the Norwegian Sea is moving forward in a situation of increased sea temperature, increased marine acidification and increased climate change. It is good that in the short term it does not look so bad in the Norwegian Sea. The state of the environment is good, but the fact that climate change prospects and increased marine acidification are not properly and thoroughly addressed is a major defect in the notification. I would like to hear the council say something about how he plans to get this out in later treatments, and where he thinks it is right to get it out. The fundamental conflict in this matter, which in all cases over this period of ageing, is the conflict over how much we should open up to oil companies. We can't stop the fact that it's still open for drilling in the morsels, because one of them is inside the TFO area. There is a lot of woolly text in the proposals from both the Workers' Party, Right and others, but it is clear that there is still opening for drilling there. We should say no to that. It's still full opening to drill at the edge of the ice, contrary to the agreement that the government parties have with the Left and Christian People's Party, but that's what the Storing will adopt later today when you adopt IV. In my opinion, it is totally unthinkable to draw the ice edge for the first time in this staging message, despite the fact that the bulk of the population has rejected this form of update. It's not like if you put updated numbers into the wrong model, you get the right numbers out. On the contrary, if you put the right numbers into the wrong model, you get the wrong numbers out. That's why the Council of States should stick too well to it. It is good that we have managed to gather on the things we agree on in this big message. There is another proposal that SV is proposing, and I would like to take this opportunity to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e289	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e294	It is good that this update of the Norwegian Sea Management Plan makes some progress in terms of protection areas, a protective plan for seabirds to come, etc., but it is important that we remember that the purpose of a Norwegian Sea Management Plan is to specify how activities and resources in this marine area should be managed within the limits of the ecosystem. Therefore, such a plan, as several representatives have now pointed out, must, above all, ask: What are the tolerance limits? What are their requirements for resource and activity management? And what must be done in practice? The government’s update of the Norwegian Sea Management Plan does not answer the first question, hardly the second and only partially the third. The notification mainly suggests that the state of the environment in the Norwegian Sea is good. But the very important thing that stands in the whole message is on page 86. It says: ‘Climate change and marine acidification are expected to cause major changes in the structure and functioning of marine ecosystems.’ A more dramatic warning for an ecosystem is difficult to get along with. So the government is waiting for the Norwegian Sea to become a strongly altered ecosystem, perhaps with other processes, with other species, at other places and at other times than today. We already know that the torch is moving, that the crucible is dropping, that the mackerel has reached the Longyearbyen, but we don't know what's coming after the mackerel. We don't know what to eat if it comes to the deep sea north of Svalbard. We know that the sea is filled with plastic, but we don't know the long-term consequences. We know that peacocks and peacocks should be treated as special waste when they are dead, because they are so stunned by environmental poisons. But we don't know how long the populations can take. And we know that the Norwegian Sea is getting warmer and more acidic, but we don't know if it's 10 or 50 years until it can lead to major damage to populations of calcareous species, which all other animals depend on. What is the government's answer to that? The answer is largely to do as we do: ask the researchers to follow closely what is happening, to pour out permits to the oil industry and to rejoice that new sea areas will be opened as a result of the decent ice melting. The management plan for the Norwegian Sea should have been to provide scenarios for the development of ecosystems and species in the Norwegian Sea, discuss the consequences and propose management measures based on it. Moreover, the plan should of course take the consequence that Norway has in the last 50 years delivered 16 billion tonnes of extra CO 2 to the atmosphere, which contributes to the strong temperature increase in the Norwegian Sea, and therefore recommends stopping the search for even more oil and gas, which the world does not need, and starting the phase-out of Norwegian oil activities, so that we can end the epoch when Norway contributed to destroying its own ecosystems. When it comes to opening new oil fields, the government's going to run a little bit. When it comes to protecting our most important sea areas, it goes slower than cold-water corals grow. I was in the sample that proposed 36 candidates for Marine Protection Areas for the Ministry of the Environment in 2013 and have been quite impatient after that. The port of Norway has hundreds of oil-fired areas, but still only a handful of marine protected areas – two years before our international commitments require us to protect 10 pst. of the area. This is going too slowly. It's good that we get a little bit today, but the speed has to be increased. Unfortunately, the majority of GDP continues to prioritise oil extraction higher than in the future. Even in vulnerable areas, it is opened for exploration. And so the government, as many people have done, is trying to change the definition of ice-creams once again, so that the oil industry can reap the benefits of climate change that drive the ice northwards. It's good that the bulk of the population at least rejects this. As SV's representative went through, we do not vote in favour of the proposal for Decision II, nor for the new proposal that I have understood that the Workers' Party and the Centre Party are alerting, because it means opening up oil on one of the Møreblocks. So let's draw proposal No. 3, which is covered by the proposals No. 1 and 2, we're going to draw it. The government that comes after the elections should not underpin this management plan that we are now debating, the management of the Norwegian Sea. That government should come back to Stortinget with a more thorough, trade-based plan based on the long-term consequences of ocean changes in the Norwegian Sea, and how we should deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e319	Last week it was written in New York, when the United Nations organized its first major marine environment conference. It is a very clear sign that seas are an increasingly high issue on the international agenda, and it is a topic where Norway has a lot to contribute. An ecosystem-based approach to governance and balancing sustainable use and protection were central to the conference. Here, Norway has the management plans as the central tool for sustainable management and for our efforts to meet sustainability targets 14, on sea and underwater life. The system of overall management plans is an important contribution from Norway to international maritime management. For example, Russia is now working with a management planning system inspired by what we have in Norway, which has emerged from the good dialogue in the Norwegian-Russian environmental cooperation. The aim of the management plans is to facilitate value creation through the sustainable use of resources and ecosystem services while maintaining the structure, functioning, productivity and natural diversity of ecosystems. But, as the last speaker said, it is a challenge that ecosystems are changing due to climate change. The management plans are a concrete expression of Norway’s ability and willingness to manage our marine areas in a responsible manner as a coastal State. Norway has a strong history as a port, and we're not going to have less joy of the sea in the future. Marine industries will play an important role in the transition to a low-carbon society and the development of new green solutions for Norway. The sea is an area where the relationship between sustainable environment and economic opportunities is very obvious. This spring, the government has presented a maritime strategy, a major communication on the oceans in foreign and development policy and this communication on the Norwegian Sea. The government is strongly at sea as an important resource to secure Norway for the future. The Storting Communication confirms, as many have pointed out, that the state of the environment in the Norwegian Sea is essentially good, and that we balance industrial activities in a good way with environmental considerations. The challenges we face are followed up by measures, such as: the action plan on seabirds, new knowledge measures and action on marine litter. I would like to emphasise that the message is based on a solid and broadly anchored professional basis, primarily consisting of the Professional Forum's report, the Status Report of the Monitoring Group, and the recordings from the hearing and the recording meeting. I must also mention the Vesteris, which was mentioned, but not mapped in the 2009 management plan. With better knowledge, the Vesteris is now mapped in the update of the management plan. It does not change the previously notified government that the technical basis for the revision of the Barents Sea-Lofoten management plan will include a review of the definition underlying the calculation of the ice edge. That review of the review in 2020 will also cover the Vesteris in the Norwegian Sea, in line with the opinion of the Committee. In the examination of the notification, the Committee has also been concerned with both particularly valuable and vulnerable areas, SVOs and the work on marine protection. I would like to mention that the status of marine protection is mentioned in the communication, and that the government will continue the work and develop a plan for further work on marine protection. As regards the coral reefs of Sularevet and Iverygen, the Government will assume that a majority of the Committee will continue the framework for petroleum activities from 2009. The Norwegian Sea includes large deep-sea areas. The deep-sea environment is valuable in itself, while perhaps we can harvest biological material from extreme environments of life for industrial and medical use. There is also an interest in exploiting mineral deposits on the seabed. Such activities will impose major requirements on the sustainable use and conservation of deep-sea ecosystems. Here's a lot we don't know, and there's a lot of knowledge we need to harvest, too, before we harvest the resources. One of the points of action in the Communication is therefore to assess the need for protection or protection of specific and rare natural values in the deep sea. For the first time, we use a big message to provide a broad review of marine pollution in Norwegian seas. The Government proposes a number of measures for clean-up, knowledge-building and prevention from sea-based sources. During this booming period, both the government and the Stortinget have made sure to further develop the good management plan system we have. I would like to thank the Committee for a good work on its follow-up. The establishment of a single professional forum for all marine areas has provided better coordination. The decision of the Stortinget to revise the management plans at least every 12 years and update them every four years provides us with a more predictable system, and from the forthcoming ageing period, the Stortinget will be presented with a minimum of one marine management notification in each period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e349	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e354	The management plan identifies Fron, Sularevet and Iverrygen as particularly valuable and vulnerable areas since the previous management plan. There have been new findings of coral reefs here, and there is especially important feeding and breeding space for fish, seabird and seals there. Does the Minister for Climate and Environment agree that oil drilling and petroleum activity should be permitted in the vulnerable areas of Fron, Sularevet and Iverback?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e359	A prerequisite for any type of business in the Sularevet and Iverryggen areas, identified as particularly valuable and vulnerable, is that measures are taken to ensure that natural values are not damaged. There is no ban on business, but the necessary measures must ensure that it is not damaged. There is a background for the closure of Sularevet and Iverback for bottom radiation and for the government's proposal to open up the granting of extraction permits with special requirements not to damage the coral reefs. In addition, we proposed extensive drilling time limits for marine birds and marine mammals. It was a proposal that we made based on the experience of the environmental authorities in previous oil activities in areas with coral reefs – experience of environmental monitoring results related to these operations and research on impacts and effects on coral reefs. We now base the Committee's decision that such activities should be expected until a comprehensive marine protection plan has been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e364	Thanks for the answer. I can't humiliate myself. I have to ask the Council of State if he can explain the reason why a new map has been drawn for the ice edge of this message without a comprehensive scientific investigation into the ice edge zone. This has been done despite the fact that the Stortinget has clearly informed the government – we sent a case back – that any reassessment of the ice edge and ice edge zone should be considered in the context of a comprehensive assessment of the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e369	We have announced, and we are still maintaining, that the calculation criteria for the ice edge will be reviewed when the Barents Sea and Lofoten management plan is revised in 2020. That review will also cover the Vesteris. At the time of handling the ice-cream notification, no majority considered the calculation criteria for the definition of the ice-cream to be incorrect, but there was a majority opinion that the professional basis was not up-to-date through clear processes. The Vesterisen, which we now mention and map celebrations, was mentioned in the Norwegian Sea Management Plan in 2009. Now we've also mapped it, simply because we have better knowledge of the presence of sea ice. This is otherwise an area not close to any area open to petroleum activity. Having a map when you have the basis for making a map, I think it's better than not having a map.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e376	As I said in my post, only 1 pst. of our marine areas protected, and although there are 36 candidate areas surveyed, only 4 pst. where appropriate, the protection. Through international conventions, Norway has undertaken to protect 10 pst. by 2020. It might have been tempting to ask the Council of State if he is satisfied with the progress, but I would rather ask how the Council of State thinks we should achieve the target of 10 p.m. by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e383	There is no doubt that much remains in the work on marine protection. One of the reasons is that we are concerned that it should be locally accepted and locally anchored as far as possible. So last year we protected three new areas, that was a double of the number, but from a small number. I am now recording, in the examination of this communication, that the majority has taken decisions on the work on marine protected areas, and that is what we are going to do. There's a desire for a plan, and we're going to start that work. Hopefully, this could contribute to better progress in this work, but I would like to reiterate that the local acceptance of these protection processes is an important starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e390	The councils started out in the big ocean, but let's go into the fjord, where people work and live, where it's a yawning business, and where people live and have their everyday lives. There is a lot that is protected in Trondheimsfjorden – Tauterryggen, Rødberget, Gaulosen – and everyone has local connection. Therefore, I am a little surprised that the government parties in today's setting cannot help saying that if you want to protect Skarnsundet and Børgin, there must be local support. Because, as far as protection is concerned, there is strong resistance in all the municipalities concerned. My question to the Council of State, when he spoke in the previous reply about the need for local access, is whether he can guarantee that the two areas will not be protected without localisation among the municipalities concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e398	Let me first say that it is important to protect areas even near the coast, because they have important protective values. This is the basis for the professional basic work. It is also true that even though people naturally live on land, they not only live by what is in the spring; they also live by the great sea. Norway has done so for centuries. It might be even more important for us in the years to come. Harvesting resources is about both the fjords and the large seas. With regard to the areas of the Nord-Trøndelag, we are now there that the areas have been transferred to the Ministry after local consultations and management of the County and the Environment Directorate, but we have not yet concluded on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e407	It is important to have local involvement, to contribute to the adaptation of the rules on protection. However, it cannot be decided locally whether there are nationally important areas that need to be protected. It must also be a national decision in the future. If there are important areas, it is a national responsibility to decide to take care of them. But my question is really that when we get a marine protection plan and the 36 areas get a review, and we will get a case for Stortinget, as the Christian People's Party points out, it will not be near what is enough to achieve the goals that we have committed ourselves to internationally, and the Aichi goals that are set, by 10 pst. protection. New processes are needed to achieve those objectives. Then my question is: What does the Council of State see in new processes to reach our international commitments – processes that go beyond the review of the marine protection plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e414	When we have a plan based on the recommendation of a 2004 Advisory Forum, which has recommended 36 areas, and we have so far protected six of them, it is clear that we have a job to do with those identified. Continuing and implementing processes around them is likely to be more important than identifying further new ones. We have examples internationally of countries protecting quite large areas to achieve this 10pst. goal, without necessarily very high levels of protection there. I think there's no process we should follow. We should deal with the professional assessments of where there are protective values. Now, in addition to the process in Nord-Trøndelag, there are also processes at different stages at, for example, Hordaland, Nordland and Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e423	Norway manages areas equal to the entire Mediterranean Sea. It makes us one of the countries in the world – with the exception of some Pacific islands and others – that manage most seas per capita. At the same time, we have a slightly darker story in another field. Indeed, we are one of the countries that contribute the most CO 2 to climate change per capita – due to both emissions and consumption, but also because of our oil and gas production and burning. My question is: when the Council of State warns about possible major impacts on the Norwegian ecosystem due to climate change, is he satisfied that he has no ability to present to us what we can expect, and what we need to do to stop this – while opening up new areas to the oil industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e433	The most important thing we do to protect the ecosystems in the Norwegian Sea as well as in other seas is to curb climate change. Climate change is already taking place, ecosystems are already changing. I was on Svalbard last fall and saw a Atlantic stork that shouldn't be there, but it's there now. Of course, some of these changes are already there, and they are there to stay. It tells us that we need to work hard for a more offensive climate policy – internationally and in Norway. So let's do that. Although climate change is happening twice as fast in the Arctic as the global average, emissions here alone are not responsible for it – it is the global emissions that need to decrease. This means that emissions from fossil energy production also need to decrease, and that fossil energy production over time needs to be phased out. But there is the demand that will determine how fast it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e440	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e447	Let me just answer a few of the comments that have come to the post. First, I want to thank you for bragging. This has been a difficult matter to get through in the Committee. There are many different opinions about how to manage these areas. The representative, Tina Bru, pointed out in his statement that we are critical that work on national protection plans has taken too long. As early as 1995, a survey of suitable marine protected areas was presented in Norway, and the Stortinget decided in 2000 to establish national marine protection plans. As many have mentioned, 36 representative areas of protection have been proposed, but we have not yet established a comprehensive plan to ensure our marine ecosystems. It is particularly important to ensure the areas where new and important coral deposits have been found, and areas for emerging fish – such as the areas we have discussed a lot here now: Sularevet, Fron and Iverrygden. We believe that no new petroleum activities will be undertaken in these areas. Fortunately, we have a majority for that in Stortinget. The Moravian banks, the Haltenbank and the Sklinnabank also designate themselves as particularly relevant marine protected areas. These areas are core areas for herring and herring spawning. In addition, there are three new findings of coral reefs on the Mørebanken. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is important to indicate that the Moravian banks should be exempted from petroleum activity in the further work on marine protection areas. The representative of Marit Arnstad referred to the establishment of marine protection in coastal areas. I would just like to stress that this will take place in close dialogue with local authorities, and in processes involving marine protection plans in coastal areas, the views of municipalities and counties should be emphasised. There are several batches which have today abandoned the proposal for Decision II as it now stands. The Labour Party will maintain support for II, but we want to subsidize proposal No. 13 from the Center Party. Then I would say that I think it is a pity that we have not reached an agreement where we could have a majority to secure these valuable areas in the Norwegian Sea, until the status of the marine protection plans has been clarified through the national marine protection plan. It's probably about the Storting has had a lot of cases to deal with lately. The management plan came late. Here, we could have been able to figure out a solution if the parties were willing to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e464	I would like to thank the rapporteur for clarifying the need for a close dialogue with the municipalities, and I would just like to stress that in the case of Børgin and Skarnsundet, Steinkjer and Inderøy municipalities have been strongly opposed from Day 1, and they are still. The question is whether it helps. I have understood that the Right Party and the Advance Party are not necessarily opposed, but that the Council of State stresses that they have not decided the question of Børgin and Skarnsundet. That is why I would like to ask for a motion for a resolution to be put to the vote. 12 to a transmission proposal, with the hope that the recommendation contained in such a transmission proposal will contribute to a sensible decision by the government with regard to Børgin and Skarnsundet.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e471	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e476	I take the word because I have to say that I react to what the council says about the drawing he has made of the edge of the ice. He manufactures it as almost completely reliable and quite natural that the edge of the ice is drawn in the way it does, since the edge of the ice was mentioned in the previous management plan, but not drawn in, and he claims that this is because we now have more knowledge. But the last time the government tried to move on the ice, the Storting reacted to it by saying that this is not okay. That's because the government did it without doing a scientific and technical update to the definition of the ice edge, but only plotted with up-to-date numbers. The discussion on this is about more issues. It is about using maximum ice prevalence, or about using ice prevalence for specific dates, what kind of ice – how much ice should be used to define this as ice edge zone, the amount of ice per square metre, and the discussion about the length of those time series to capture some of the fundamental variations that exist for entirely different reasons than just climate change. This is because there's a professional discussion about both where these parameters matter where life is and what kind of risk you're willing to address, for example, oil drilling. There's a problem here, which I think the Council of State should stay too good to jump over. What's the problem with doing it the way the Council of State has done is that he is today considering what kind of definition of the edge of ice he wants to apply, and it's despite the fact that, despite the fact that the Storting, the entire majority of the population, with the exception of the government, asked us to take that discussion in a proper and scientific way in the next update of the Barents Sea and Lofoten management plan. That is why I think it was absolutely necessary to point this out, because I believe that the Council of State has chosen to jump over the majority of the population in the previous round when this matter was involved. He shouldn't have done that, and now it's like the Stortinge requires a proper update in connection with the next update of the Barents Sea and Lofoten management plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e485	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e501	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e517	This is a proposal for a sectoral law for the water and sewerage sector by representatives from Marit Arnstad, Kjersti Toppe and Heidi Greni. In this matter, the Committee has divided itself into two groups, where a majority, consisting of the parties Right, the Party of Progress, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party, ask the Government to go through the position of the Committee of the Regions and appropriately return it to the Grand Duchy, and then also assess the need for a sectoral law for the water and sewerage sectors. The minority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, are today ready to vote for the Storting to request a sectoral law for the water and sewerage sectors. From our point of view, it is too weak just to ask for an assessment. The Committee notes in its joint comments, which are supported by all the parties, that this is a discussion that has been going on for many years, and that the Stortinget earlier in this period, through the Health and Welfare Committee, has unanimously asked for a sectoral law to be put in place. Nevertheless, we see that little has happened. We therefore believe that we do not need further assessments, but that we need to make a decision. Many of the countries that it is natural for us to compare us with, such as the United States. Sweden and Finland already have such a law. Through a sectoral law, we could unite many existing laws into one common law. There are about 70 laws and regulations that could have been brought together in a sectoral law. This is something that has been wanted by many actors, for example: by Norsk Water and KS, who have been calling for this for several years, and after many years of calling for it, Norsk Water itself created a draft sectoral law. With more extreme weather, more and more heavy rainfall, the need for such a law is reinforced. We see today that there are several cases of damage and funding that come before the courts because there is disagreement about responsibility. Better regulation could better clarify this and avoid unnecessary use of time and resources, both from individuals and from municipalities. Earlier in this period, the size has, through comments, asked for a sectoral law without being followed up by the government. That is why the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre will today adopt a decision that will bind the government. But unfortunately, the majority weakens what Stortinget has said in the past when they simply ask for a further assessment. With that, I address the proposal of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, and we would like to ask that there be an alternative vote between the proposal and the vote I.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e532	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e537	I would like to thank the proposers for raising an important issue. The need for a sectoral law for the water and sewerage sector has been discussed in a number of contexts, on which the case-rapporteur was involved, over many years, at the end of Stortingen’s discussion of the public health notification in June 2015. At the time, the Committee showed, inter alia: to several cases of contamination of drinking water. I would like to highlight the assessments presented in the WFD study, NOU 2015:16, which was also referred to by the Council of State in its letter of reply. Both climate change and social development with increased congestion can individually increase the intensity of the flood drain, and without preventive measures, costs can be expected to be significant. Costs are indicated in the order of 45-100 billion. kr in the next 40 years. The sample considers that the means of overwater should be as predictable and accurate as possible and provide incentives for the most cost-effective adaptation over time. Overwater management in planning and construction operations is an important starting point for municipalities, and at the latest yesterday, a unanimous increase in changes in the planning and building law was adopted to ensure the diversion of water at an early stage of the construction process. The selection also underlines that the Planning and Building Act is an important tool for good flood management. It is also recommended that the relationship between site owners, i.e. the municipality, and the subscriber, i.e. the inhabitants, be regulated by law or regulation. The most important issues should be regulated by law or regulation, with equal rules for the whole country. Provisions of a more technical and local nature may be laid down in local regulations. I agree with that. At the same time, it is emphasised that cross-sectoral provisions of legislation relating to water and sewerage services, such as provisions of the Law on Planning and Building, pollution law, etc., should be retained in a cross-sectoral legislation. This is the background for the fact that the Right is with the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Environmental Party The Greens behind the majority position in this matter. While there may be little disagreement about the need for a separate sectoral law on water and sewerage, it is important that it is levelled against the many recommendations made by the overwater committee and that the boundaries are raised against other cross-sectoral laws. By sending the matter to the government and asking for proposals for measures and instruments to deal with water problems, including an assessment of a separate sectoral law on water and sewerage, we get a thorough review of the whole case complex and see things in context. I think it's a better approach than going straight to a sector law. And as the Council of State writes in the letter to the Committee, several departments and agencies are now involved in the extensive work of evaluating the proposals of the overwater committee and implementing changes in laws and regulations. So the next big thing is the joy of following this case up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e550	I choose, as one of the proposers behind the Document 8 that is being discussed today, to actually interpret the setting in a positive way. Suffering if there is no majority in favour of the proposal of the Central Party, to present a separate sectoral law, I feel that the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left are on their way there, they just haven't quite come there yet and will have some more opinions first. And you're welcome. But I think we're going to get there that we're going to deal with our own proposal for a sector law for the water and sewerage sector, it's just that this government won't do anything about it now. I think we're going to get there, both because we see that our neighbouring countries have introduced it – and as far as I know also have good experience with it – because I think there is a need to do it, and because I think it can also be more effective and simpler in the legal system to have a separate sectoral law for the water and sewerage sector. So I choose to interpret it positively, sail if we do not get a majority for this proposal today, but I think we are moving towards what we proposed in Document 8. Then, too – as this is the last debate with the Committee on Energy and the Environment – I will be allowed to thank the members of the Committee and the Council of State for their good cooperation in the last four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e557	I'll be brief: I'll join much of the post to Right Eirik Milde. From the left side: One thing is to start an assessment of whether we need a sector law – and it may well be that we do – but to start a work with a sector law without really having a clear idea of what we want to achieve with it, at least the left looks at it as if it did not have the urgency of it, at least if we were to take an initiative, should have. But what's urgent is to follow up the flood committee, for the proposals that are there, we need a review of, and we need to adopt the necessary changes in the Storting. So the background for the Left on the proposal is actually that it's a priority, that's what's urgent now, that's what we have to get through in the system. This is what we need to put in place, both to have a systematic approach to overwater and to get a code that facilitates it. Then it'll be an assessment in that process if you're going to continue working with a sector law. Then I will follow up what Marit Arnstad said and thank the Committee for the work that has been done in these four years, and thank the Council of State for the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e568	I think that both the case rapporteur and Marit Arnstad made good comments, and I just want to join their conclusions. We're going for a law. At the same time, I would like to stress what Ola Elvestuen says, namely that there is a need for the conclusions of the flood committee to be implemented as quickly as possible. We only saw last year how billions were charged to the Municipality of Oslo, in the beautiful city where we are, in just one part of the city, through huge amounts of rainfall in a short time. I tend to say, to the great despair of my mountain friends and of my mountain author, that we do not want more cities to become like Bergen – and as some other easterners also say and worry about: we do not want all the mountains to come as climate refugees to Oslo. I think of course it would have been pleasant, but it had become a bit boisterous in Bergen. But it is an important point to stress that we already see how climate change literally blames us, and there is a need to ensure that we have regulation, clear lines, clearly defined conditions to deal with it properly. Then I'm going to break the rules with knowledge and will – I'm just warning you about it. I'm going to be brief and just say that because of a misunderstanding in the committee we didn't get a proper debate on the previous matter, so I'm going to limit myself to bringing praise. I think it must be room for praise, even if I break the rules. It is about praise to the Council of State and to the government for the efforts and the work that have been done under the Montreal Protocol, to ensure that we put in place restrictions on what was really about some of the strongest greenhouse gases that exist. Then the rose is given, and then it's the end of the rule break. I also want to finish what Marit Arnstad did, by saying that I believe this committee we have been sitting on, the Energy and Environment Committee, has been one of those committees – if not the committee – that have had the most constructive cooperation, while at the same time we have been able to disagree with some important climate and environmental issues, wolf and bear issues, etc. In spite of that, we have shown some of the things that I think are the finest with the 16 years I've had on the Storting, namely that when there is actually a basis for consensus on political matters, we've almost always made it clear to get together on that consensus, and through that we've driven the policy forward in important areas. So with these words, thank you for the cooperation in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e582	I know that I should take the floor, albeit briefly, to stay a little bit on the matter and then thank you for the cooperation. I would like to stress that the water problem is something I am concerned about. It's a work I prioritise, because climate adaptation is a challenge that's already important, and that's going to be just more important in time to come. We're going to get wetter, warmer and wilder weather, and that means that this work is of great importance. It also turned out through the hearing we had on the study of the WFD. Then we got a lot of views and an even broader basis for further work. There are many ministries that are and must be involved, and there is some reason why it is too early now to conclude on the issue of a sectoral law. So it's not because there's a disagreement about the challenge. It is nice to be able to conclude cooperation with the Committee in a matter where there is quite such broad consensus and great harmony. It is not always the case in the debates within this committee. But good cooperation has been, and I want to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e593	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e609	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court of Justice. 5 and 6 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e640	It's probably a misunderstanding, because I thought I'd take the word after the case spokesperson. But I'm starting, as the situation is now. It's very good that we have the Civilombodsman. The fact that people have a possibility through a neutral agency to check that management decisions are valid is a very important service, which the Civil Ombudsman can provide. The work of the ombudsman to monitor and control that the administration respects and safeguards human rights is very important. In 2016, the Civilombodsmann dealt with 1,352 cases and rejected 1,646 cases. Most of the complaints received by the ombudsman are about a long period of time and lack of answers from the administration. In addition, there are many who complain about statements about illness, treatment time, lack of answers, construction matters and public opinion, legal obligations and access to documents. A core task for the ombudsman is to help public administration respect and secure human rights. In 2016, the Civilombodsman focused in particular on how public authorities proceed in relation to the Children’s Convention in the proceedings. The Convention on the Rights of the Child provides clear rights to children and obligations for adults to take decisions relating to children. Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child provides that the best interests of the child shall be a fundamental consideration of all acts adopted by the child, while Article 12 deals with the rights of the child to be heard. These decisions are both considered to be the basic principle of the Children’s Convention, and they are also incorporated into the Constitution § 104. I notice that the Civilomebodsman says that it is very important. He says that hearing children has their own value. He says that it is always the best thing for the child to be heard. He says that the administrator always has to investigate whether things affect children. He has also looked at issues where this concern is not taken. We in the committee write in our remarks that the ombudsman still thinks it's a way to go before the administration's taking care of the obligations under the Children's Convention is good enough, even if there's a lot of work going on in different parts of the administration. It's serious. We are now asking that we step up efforts to put in place a practice throughout the whole administration that is in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e661	The task of the Ombudsman is to contribute to ensuring that there is no injustice by the public administration against the individual citizen. The Ombudsman also has an important role to play in the form of a prevention function, because the Ombudsman’s role in dealing with individual cases is also of an awareness-raising and practical nature. I will not go into the whole setting, I just want to raise a few issues that are affected in it. I find that the number of cases has remained somewhat stable over the last four years, but with a small, increasing trend, from 2,987 in 2013 to 3,128 in 2016. It is gratifying that there has been a decline in the Ombudsman’s time of proceedings. There's a reason to notice, with a positive sign. But we also notice that a clear majority of complaints, in fact about 75 p.m., were directed at government agencies, and of them, most complaints were directed against Nav and the statesmen. This means that public authorities still have a high potential for improvement in regulatory procedures and practices. In its annual report, the Ombudsman has shown his own examination of the behaviour of public authorities in relation to the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the proceedings. Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and Article 12 stress that a decision must contain an assessment of the child’s best and the child’s opinion, respectively. We record that in several cases the best assessment of the child was not mentioned in the reasons for the decision, or it did not appear to be sufficiently concrete and individual. So even if there's a lot of good work in this area, it's worth noting that there's still a way to go before you can settle down on the administration's compliance with the obligations of the Children's Convention. This is therefore a strong encouragement to improve practice in this area, so that the child perspective can be better taken into account in management. The Annual Report shows that the Civil Ombudsman and this function are respected, including by the administration. That's good. In general, the Ombudsman’s decision is loyally followed up by the administrative bodies. It is important and of great value to those involved directly, but also to society as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e674	The Civil Ombudsman is a very important institution both for individuals and for organisations that do not have the power one could wish for individuals and those organisations to be able to assess the legality of what is happening in society. In the Civil Ombudsman’s Annual Report, there is a separate chapter on matters of general interest. That's what it says. ‘In accordance with the instructions of Section 12 of the Civil Ombudsman, the annual report shall contain an overview of the individual cases which the Ombudsman considers to be of general interest. Criteria for this are whether the case is representative of the type of case, whether it is relevant as an example of procedural errors that have been made, whether the case is factual and legal and whether the case raises questions of a legal security nature.» In the overview presented to us by the Civil Ombudsman, it is referred to under General Administrative Law, case 2015, 3565: ‘The County Council’s statutory audit of the municipal plan — lack of impact assessment — children and young people’s growing-up conditions.’ That case concerns the Marienlyst case in the Drammen. This applies to Marienlyst, a sports facility, among others: for children and young people, the majority of whom have now decided to use mainly for new housing blocks. It has been a big debate, and it is a big debate. There's a big fight in the Drama about this, and it's a big popular commitment. An action committee has been set up to preserve Marienlyst, and that action committee has sent the matter to the Civil Ombudsman. According to the Civil Ombudsman’s letter of 17 October 2016, the County of Buskerud makes the assumption that the requirements for the impact assessment are incorrect, and that the Ombudsman considers that it is appropriate to create uncertainty about the validity of the municipality’s plan decision. The Ombudsman points out that the authorities dealing with spatial planning matters have a special responsibility to care for the interests of children and young people. In my view, it is particularly serious in view of the County's special role in the care of children and young people's interests in the planning work. This is our own big chapter in the document that we are currently processing. Lack of investigation and assessment of these considerations may help to weaken people’s confidence in administration. That's exactly what happened in the Marienlyst case. The issue is a necessary impact assessment of municipal planning proposals and national objectives in order to safeguard the interests of children and young people in planning. The Civil Ombudsman considers the matter to be of fundamental importance. This case is not just about the consideration of the municipal maritime administration, it is about the greater part of the matter of the role and legal perception of the county. In this case, Fylkesen, as the regional representative of the State, has defended a legal opinion in support of the municipality with which the Civil Ombudsman concludes is incorrect. This is particularly serious in view of the specific role played by the State in safeguarding the interests of children and young people in the planning process. As can be seen, the Ombudsman has noted that the State does not conclude that the situation excludes uncertainty in the legality of the plan decision. There are therefore strong reasons for clarifying the issue of the legality of the municipality’s plan decisions. Otherwise, the County Court’s incorrect judgment could be upheld as legal and the Ombudsman has stated that it is unfortunate that such a view of the future should be taken into account by the State or others. This led me to send two letters to the Council of State, Sanner, asking for clarification. In the response of the Council of State Sanner of 1 June this year, the Council of State says: «The Civil Ombudsman has assessed the issue of the legality of the municipal plan decisions under the Municipality Act § 59.» The priest is § 59 nr. 5th@item: inlistbox ‘On this basis, the County of Buskerud made a second assessment of whether the county of Buskerud should take the matter up for legal review on its own initiative. Regardless of whether there should be uncertainty in the legality of the plan decision, the county council concluded after an overall assessment’» And here we go to the point: ‘that there was no reason to take the municipality plan in Drammen up to the statutory audit. The civil officer subsequently found that the matter was settled by the county council’s reassessment.’» What is stated in the Civil Ombudsman's document is that it was after a reasonable overall assessment that the matter was not addressed. This is too weak. A question of whether it is within or outside the requirements of law and regulation cannot be considered as a matter of discretion. It is therefore very strong to experience that there is a reasonable consensus in this Chamber, namely that the County is at least to carry out a law enforcement exercise, is now being practised so that the Ministry of Local Affairs' political leadership accepts that the County can make a discretionary overall assessment of a question that the Civil Ombudsman says in a letter to the County Council is not in line with the requirements of sound administration. This is based on trust in government institutions. Individuals and organisations shall have the right to be protected from abuse. I am very surprised that the Council of State has such boldness and does not choose to go into the matter and assess it on the legal basis, but it answers that this has been assessed by the County. And the County has therefore carried out a discretionary overall assessment. It is to be regretted that such administrative practices develop in political direction in the Ministry of Local Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e713	I will not make any comments on behalf of the President-in-Office, who will take the floor later. The reason why I take the floor is that the Civil Ombudsman has his role in controlling the administration, and that's good. I am also pleased that there is a unanimous committee which points out that there are still a number of areas, particularly with regard to the rights of children to be heard in Norway. Yesterday I was at a big conference about children in some disadvantaged families – families who need help from Nav and who need social assistance. Still, even though the children are in school and perhaps even in their teens, it is very rare that they are consulted and heard in these matters. It can be quite serious, because these children may have completely different needs from those of their parents. I'm just giving this as an example of how the administration has to deal with the Children's Convention. This room, as legislator, also has to. Yesterday, the Stortinget dealt with another case, the annual report of the new Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights — an institution established by the Stortinget to have an advisory body in its activities to discharge our obligations under different conventions, including: human rights obligations, as we have. The letter from the institution to the Stortinget was clear: Norway violates the Convention on the care of lone refugee children over 15 years of age. It is quite explicit in the letter that has come to the Stortinget from this institution. SV has meant it for a long time, and I believe it is in place to say it today. It is not the task of the Civil Ombudsman to ensure that it does. It is up to this House and the government to ensure that we do not violate human rights in the treatment of lone minor asylum seekers. If there is one group that will have difficulties in asserting its interests in the Norwegian administration, it is this group. They depend on us as a magnification and legislative assembly ensuring that the law to deal with these children is in line with our Convention obligations, and that it is also in practice that we do not discriminate against children in Norway – that is what this is all about. I find reason to spend time on this because I've been in numerous discussions, especially in the last four years, where government councils and representatives of the government parties, and also some other parties, claim that you can treat or ignore these obligations because these are parents who behave badly, do stupid things or make stupid choices, and therefore you become like, for example, Prison some of these families with children over a long time before they leave. It is not the case that the obligations of the State under the Convention on the Rights of the Child are to be dealt with. It shall be handled in such a way as to be responsible for these children as an authority and to be treated in the same way as if they were Norwegian children. I hope that the Storting and the bulk of the population realize that we need to change legislation in this area, perhaps also in a number of other areas to be in line with what the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights is now telling us that we need to do, and as the Civil Ombudsman's annual report tells us. As they have placed great emphasis on this, and as the Committee agrees that the management will do so, the law must at least be in line with the fulfilment of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I think there is a need to clarify it, especially when there is a unanimous committee that believes that this needs to be done. This should also reflect the unanimity in dealing with cases of granting an equivalent offer to Norwegian children to single minor asylum seekers over 15 years of age, who are without parents and have taken over in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e730	Initially, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. It's a consensual committee that makes comments in both cases, in fact. I believe this is an expression that a great deal is pleased with the work of the Civilo Ombudsman in both fields in the last year, because these matters and matters are not without political conflict and disunity in the general political work – on the contrary. The Civil Ombudsman addresses issues on which there can generally be significant political debate, and on which, in part, there has also been a good deal of public attention in recent years. I would just like to stress that I consider it important and valuable that there is a consensual committee that follows up completely and clarifies the serious issues that the Civilo Ombudsman has drawn up, and I would like to draw up a few. But first I want to say that the Civilombodsman has a particularly important role as a citizen for the individual citizen and for society as a whole, and that is the function in society that gives the individual citizen the opportunity to be tested – by an independent body – how valid a management decision is. The Civil Ombudsman has taken up the question and shown how public authorities view the Children's Convention in proceedings. As we know, the best thing for the child is to be a fundamental concern about actions and decisions about children. The public administration has a great responsibility for a child's hearing, and that the child's opinion is emphasized in those matters. The Committee therefore stresses that the Ombudsman believes that there is still a way forward for the administration to take good care of the obligations under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. There is good work in the administration. It is also clear in the Annual Report. However, it is still serious that there is such a clear signal from the Civilombodsman that there is a way to go for the administration of these questions. The Civil Ombudsman has worked in particular with legal security guarantees in the field of mental health protection and focused on it during his Human Rights Seminar on 19 October 2016, which the Committee agrees to express that they are satisfied with. The Civil Ombudsman refers to experiences that it is important to publicise, for example: that the control commissions have some very different practices, and that information on the control commissions and on complaints has not been available in several places visited by the Civil Ombudsman. It is important information, and we believe that the ombudsman can play and play an important role in the debate on how to ensure adequate legal security for patients who are under pressure of mental health protection. I will briefly mention one more thing, and that's that the ombudsman thinks it's a separation of interpretation in practice about what's in the scope of the'single decision'. And how you understand it, in some things, can be very important for the outcome. The Committee asks the government to put in place a more uniform and prudent practice – and I am now looking towards the Council of State, so that he can see that the Committee asks the government to ensure a more uniform and prudent practice when it comes to understanding what is a single decision. In addition, let me say a few words about the annual report from the Civilombodsman's preventive department against torture and inhuman treatment in the event of a violation of freedom. A few years ago, in 2014, she was an important complement to her work by the Civilobodsman. We point out that the department has looked at the implementation of search and visitation, and that it has criticised, on a number of occasions, that prisons carry out routine visits with full disembarkation, despite the fact that investigations involving full disembarkation should only be carried out when absolutely necessary. The Civil Ombudsman has also criticized PU, i.e. the International Foreign Office of the Police, at Trandum for having a routine practice of inspecting the bodies of the interns. The Committee agrees that this form of investigation could be perceived as degrading and offensive, and would stress that it should only be used when absolutely necessary, as set out in the Mandela Code, which is the UN standard minimum rules for the treatment of insertion. I also found it worth mentioning that, during all the visits to the police detention centre in the period 2014–2016, the prevention department followed up with recommendations to provide the detainees with the information they need and are entitled to. The Prevention Department also recommends that all detainees sign a declaration that they have been informed of their rights in a language they understand, as recommended by the European Torture Prevention Committee following its visit to Norway in 2011. I would also like to mention, in the context of the subject area, that there is an ongoing challenge in prison, the Committee expresses, ensuring foreign input information in a language that they understand, and interpreting services when necessary. The Committee is critical for the use of other interpreters, including information on routines and key rules. In general, caution should be exercised when using inserts as interpreters, including when disseminating more everyday messages. I take this up from the pulpit in Stortinget, especially because there are different issues about the situation in Norwegian prison, where there is something left before we can say good-bye. Finally, the prevention department also addresses the housing conditions for women in prison. The Committee takes a serious view of the fact that the sanitary conditions for women are not sufficiently taken care of by all prisons today, and that, among other things: the new women's prison in Kragerø and the new women's ward in Kongsvinger prison are located in old buildings, which provide too little care for the needs of women under restitution. Let me end by saying that it is my clear opinion, having been sitting for a few years in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, that I am speaking on behalf of the entire Committee when I say that the work of the Committee on Civil Liberties is highly valued, that there is an office and an institution that enjoys great respect here on the Storting, in the Committee in particular – for us who work on matters – but also in general in society, and he plays an important role, among other things. in the fields I have picked up here, and in the fields that other speakers before me have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e758	Now I can refer you to the statement by the case-speaker, because – as the case-speaker said – the comments are from a joint committee. We have some comments. But I would also like to make some comments on the annual report on the prevention of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment in the event of loss of liberty. The pre-construction unit has looked at the execution of searches and visits. The civilian ombudsman has criticised that prisons carry out routine visits with full disembarkation, even if such investigations are to be carried out only when strictly necessary. The Transdum International Police Office is also criticised for having a routine practice of body searching of the interns. This can be experienced – write to me in the comments, but I would also say that this is – demeaning and offensive, and it should only be used when absolutely necessary. It's also set in the Mandela rules, which is the UN's standard minimum rules for dealing with inserts. I would also like to make some comments to women in prison. The Civil Ombudsman finds that the sanitary conditions are not good enough. It's in all prisons. Both the new women's prison in Kragerø and the new women's unit in Kongsvinger are old barley, which too little care for the needs of women under restitution. The provision of women's employment is a priority. Many female prisoners need health care for mental disorders. It's hard to get. It turns out that women in prison don't have a stomp like it to men. Here the government has to follow up the recommendation, because we cannot live with these differences. The gender equality issue has also examined the reconciliation ratios for prisoners in Norway, and specifically those with protection under Norwegian anti-discrimination legislation and the UN Conventions. The assessment is that the situation of vulnerable groups in Norwegian prison is serious, and that women and others postponing groups systematically come out worse than majority groups of Norwegian prisoners. The report shows that many of those we call minority prisoners have a poorer supply than normal prisoners. They both get tougher punishment and are made worse to come back to society. At any time, there are about 180 women in Norwegian prison, about 6 pst. of the total number inserted. Women's sons in four clean women's prisons, as well as being scattered throughout their own departments in a dozen other prisons. According to the report, his wife was more often isolated and with more severe restrictions than men. They are also excluded from the provision of rehabilitation, and they are at risk of harassment. It may be that the reason they get poorer offers is that they are a small group, and that not enough resources are provided to keep their interests in the same way. A prisoner has said that one must be very resourceful to demand their rights in a prison. Many women who are in prison have been subjected to sexual abuse, many have mental problems, and they become losers in a system that is actually set up for white men. I would also like to say that the Committee strongly supports the Committee's view that it should be possible for very many – especially women – who are far from their families – to use Skype, so that they can have contact with their families during the reconciliation period. But I have to say that when both the Civilo Ombudsman and the Equality Ombudsman say it is serious that there is such a difference between women and men in prison, we have to thank and do something. We in the Grand Duchy and the government are forced to clean up this, because human rights also apply in prison — and also for women.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e777	We live in a rather troubled time, at a time when the human nets are being challenged all over the world. It's nothing new, but new in our time is that we get those dilemmas within our coastline and into our country. Connecting to human rights in peacetime is a relatively simple operation. Human rights embrace important values to which we can all subscribe and which we hold. When it comes to crises, when we face the real choices, it is important to have human rights and human rights as compasses. The Civil Ombudsman is one of the most important compass needles and the most important compass we have, so that we can be sure that we're on the right track, even when it's on the right track. In the public debate, we hear several voices saying that Norway does not need to be the best in the world on human rights. We're doing so well, at least most people in Norway are doing very well, and we can't be a lifebuoy for the whole world. That's right, but it's also completely wrong. If we can't raise the human rights flag when needed, human rights have no value. The flag of human rights also has value for Norway’s minorities, value for people in custody who experience insulation damage, and value for women in prison who experience that the world of rehabilitation is completely different, that men are given priority in taking part in leisure activities, and that the cells they receive are older and more worn out. It is important for the prisoners sent to the Netherlands, where the Civil Ombudsman has pointed out that the prevention work related to the protection against torture and degrading treatment is not sufficient. When I travel around the world – I am among others. Participant in the OSCE Election Observation Corps – I meet people who are exposed to impunity. What they're saying to us from Norway is that you must not leave their position as the world's best on human rights, equality and equivalency. If we don't have you to point out, how is that going to go with us? It is therefore important, and I am pleased, that the majority of the Committee supports this report. It is an important signal that human rights in Norway should be taken seriously. But I would like to point out another message, the annual report from the Norwegian National Institute of Human Rights, which we dealt with yesterday. Things that we have discussed in depth, at least in the Judicial Committee during this major period, are the national processes leading to legislative changes. The Norwegian National Institute of Human Rights mentions this, and they write that good national processes are also a central tool to prevent the State from violating human rights, and they recommend that, when promoting laws, the State improves its monitoring of it against important human rights throughout the process. I support that, and I am very pleased with the good debate we have had in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e792	I first agree with all the right things that have been said by several of the representatives in this debate on the importance of the Civil Ombudsman and the good work done by the Civil Ombudsman. I took the floor because it's a side to our society that's tangential to the Civil Ombudsman's duties, and I think it's important that the Storting also focuses on. I say it that way that now I've had eight years in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and of course we have the practice that we don't go into individual matters – it can't be done by a Grand Committee, and everyone understands it. But it happens in between that we get letters from individuals where it is quite obvious that they have something in common. They've been unfairly treated by a public authority, we notice that. What is the problem with that is that they all – alongside the realities of the matter – feel that they are facing a wall. They do not get through and are often referred to the judiciary, which in case will cost so much that they do not have the financial capacity to get their case dealt with in a fair manner. I think there are more of the kinds of things than those we see, and this is a heavy issue in relation to the justice of the legal society with regard to the individual's ability to deal with public authorities and bureaucracy on some occasions. This may sometimes be unfair in terms of those who sit in municipalities or counties or where it has to be, given the outcome, because they have their opinions, their preferences and their reasons, but anyway, when we read through some of these things, it's very little enjoyable reading. I say this in connection with the Civil Ombudsman's annual report because the Civil Ombudsman takes many of these matters. But anyway, we see that it stops just because you don't have the ability or the ability, actually, to use the rights that the law actually gives them. It's not just about money, but it's about the actual mental power to stand in it for a long time, as it often requires. In particular, they are called – and I say they are called – the weak in society that comes in such a situation. This is very important that the Storting has heavy attention around, and I say it in this debate. I see that the civil ombudsman and his people are very generously present and hear that he has the support of the Stortinge in following up this sort of individual matter in a powerful way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e803	What Mr Kolberg raised is a very important topic. For us who sit on the Municipal and Administrative Committee, it is a very important issue, of course, how the public and state bodies organise themselves to meet this, and what kind of management it is that emphasizes that it is fulfilling the intention and purpose of the law that must be at the heart of the practice of the law and meeting with the citizens. Some such cases may be of poor management. But some of this may also be about not having enough regard to people's different ways of working. You can have different types of disabilities that make someone unable to take advantage of the offer that is actually there, or have the ability to understand what is being said, or what rights they have. In that area, I fear that there are quite a long way to go in many administrative bodies, and I am very happy that the Civil Ombudsman can spend a lot of time and resources on it. One could also look at what everyone is very pleased about, namely that a lot of the public sector is now digitized, and that it is happening in a fast way. But there are also some problems. There may be a new barrier for some people, perhaps especially for the older part of the population, who may lose the opportunity to receive equivalent services and to meet their needs with the public. It's really a very small matter with this pay drop. But I've responded to the government's response, when they think it's right that we can organise the state's services so that older, sick people have to let other people have access to their private economy to their own pension data. I believe that is a fundamental question, which I believe the government has given a very poor answer to. We will see this in many areas. For many, this will be a major step forward and make public services much more accessible, but we need to make sure that everyone gets a share in it and that it works for everyone. As far as I was concerned, management also has something to do with attitudes and values. Therefore, there is a need to ensure in an even stronger way that those who are to administer our legislation in different parts of public activities have a management in their backs that tells them that it is the professionally correct and legally correct thing to manage. And if there's not enough money to implement it, it has to go up in the system to political level. We must not underestimate the facts, but put the relationship on the table with the politicians. Then the politicians have to decide whether no one is going to get, or that the system needs to change, if you're not willing to give money so that you get to what the law requires. It is very important, in my view, because we have a lot of good legislation in Norway, but in too many cases it is used and made as a knit. I've worked a lot on services for people with disabilities, a lot on services for disadvantaged people and for mentally ill people. Unfortunately, it is enough that many of these people find it difficult, yes, some of the older people have found it so difficult that SV has found it necessary to promote a case in Stortinget to investigate the human rights in the care of the elderly. We didn't get a majority for that, unfortunately, but it's serious that the Storting adopts laws that in practice out there don't work as I think most people have thought, and at least not as the population thinks it should be. I also believe that local politicians are perceiving how it should be. They just don't get it, because it's not possible. Here we are in a mood that the Civil Ombudsman gives us good feedback that we have not solved, that is, a gap that we as legislative and granting authority have not solved in some areas. I think we have to, because it is about people's confidence in the community and public administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e819	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e835	With the President's permission, I would like to add one thing to the extension of the discussion we had in the previous case. The representative, Karin Andersen, mentioned digitisation. The fact that the Nav offices are now closing the doors for people, and that you have to access the Internet many places to get their rights, also applies to the matter that we are talking about now. It wasn't supposed to be like that, but it is because in the systems you think it is necessary to do the job. Often, then, some people can fall through very much. As the president may have discovered, matters came a little quickly to the Control and Constitutional Committee today. It's our responsibility to follow up to the hall, so there's nothing wrong with it in itself, except that there wasn't really any nonchalance from our side in terms of the EOS Committee's annual report, but we just didn't get there. The case went, and it gets to be as it says. I would now like to say that there is a great deal of support in the Committee on Control and Constitution for the work done by the EOS Committee. I acknowledge that matter by saying this from my point of view, and regret our lack of presence. Then it's the State Council Protocols for the second half of 2016. I'm just referring to a few very brief comments, because this is a unanimous attitude of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The review of the State Council Protocols is a constitutional task within the meaning of the Basic Law § 75 f, and according to the first paragraph of Section 14-9 of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is to review the protocols and give its position to the Stortinge. The Committee has noted that there have been no dissidents in the government from 1 July to 31 December 2016. The Committee has no comment either on the cases of refusal or on the appointment of office during the period in question. The regulations laid down, amended or repealed by the King of State Councils form part of the Committee's six-monthly review. At this stage, the Committee has not found a basis for asking the Investigation Section of the EEAS to review selected regulations and has no comments on the regulations laid down, amended or repealed in the second half of 2016. With this in mind, I recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee on the review of the State Council Protocols for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e848	The President will draw attention to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure. Even though the representative apologized, it says: ‘The speaker should stick strictly to the matter under discussion.’ Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 8 and 9 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e884	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e893	There are two different representative proposals, both of which relate to the theme of choice and how one should fight it, which is the basis for this debate. As spokesman for both cases, I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. I would also like to stress that this problem is something we think politically important both to discuss and not least to implement measures against. Elections are highly offensive and very serious crime, and the consequences are long-standing for many who are exposed to them. Therefore, society must take targeted action to prevent electoral sequencing and also to strengthen the follow-up of electoral victims. In fact, an important part of the work against electoral law is to get several perpetrators convicted. Such statistics are now, with so few convictions in relation to the number of messages, the potential penalty is little deterrent all the time when most perpetrators actually go free. In order to obtain more convictions, it is important that more people report quickly after the offence, that the police carry out an effective and good investigation, that the case thus becomes of high quality enough to appear before the court and preferably leads to a court decision there. In the judicial system, there also appears to be reason to have better training for the laymen, especially in terms of how grips can affect the perception of the debt issue. It's not okay if the referees go free because some of the judges think the charges for the victim are relevant to the debt issue. If we go far enough in that direction, we all soon have to wrap up as much on hot summer days as what we do in winter. It is important to know that how a dress dress or groom is not relevant. What is relevant is whether or not both parties are willing to participate in what is happening. The two representative proposals contain both proposals which deal with the selection and training of laymen and, among others, with the organisation of selection and training. the recipient of the infringement. I assume that the individual parts behind the proposals will tell you more about their contents. As far as the centre party is concerned, I would like to end by stressing that we have been concerned that the proposals should be as concrete and binding as possible, and that this has been decisive for what proposals we are behind today. I'm taking up the proposals the Center Party is part of, and I want to inform you that we're going to support proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e908	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e913	The working party is concerned... Yes, first I must also thank the rapporteur for a good report and for pointing out important points and differences in matters. Then I would say that the Labour Party is concerned that reported rapes remain pending with the police. If we look at the debate we had yesterday on which instruments would be best for the victims, we believe that this is an important tool and an instrument that works. We can only say that we are disappointed that we are still receiving reports and reports that rape is not a high priority, so that matters remain in favour of dealing with other issues. Clearly, there is a dilemma between political governance and ensuring that the police are allowed to do what they think is right. We've seen that this government is very eager in its detailed management, but not in this area. We think that is regrettable. We might have what we might call a reverse strategy. We have detailed control in this area, but we have free resources in other areas. We hope that the government parties, who in this Chamber yesterday were very concerned about strengthening the situation of the victims, can agree to commit themselves to an action plan that can really make a difference for victims in this case. Concrete action plans with responsibilities and concrete actions are good experience, and these members – i.e. the Workers' Party – wonder that the government has actually lowered its priorities to continue this work. I take up proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party to Case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e926	The representative of Kari Henriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e931	Of course, I want to first thank the case rapporteur for a good loss through these two issues and not least thank the Christian People's Party and the Labour Party for these important proposals, which focus on a theme that governments and government parties have been very concerned about over these four years. Violence is a serious, anti-truth form of crime that can lead to extensive health damage and lasting burdens on individuals. Earlier this year, the Advocate General presented the national results of the 2016 Quality Survey of State Advocates. It shows that there is progress in investigation and prosecution, but that they are far from being aimed at ensuring better and equal quality in investigation, tracking and interception. It is worth noting that the Riks lawyer has chosen rape and abuse in close relations as an area for extra review, precisely because corruption and government have expressed a clear expectation that the investigation of these matters will be of high quality. The previous action plan on rape expired in 2014. When the figures show an increase in reported sexual offences and, not least, the postponement of young girls, it is clear that the job is not completed. The government has therefore already started work on a new action plan against rape, so one of the proposals that is being promoted here today has already been accepted. I have to say that whether or not the word «obligatory» is in front of me, I perceive that all the work the government is doing, and that is going on, is binding. I'd say the same thing for the Workers' Party, so here's more of a use of political polemics than political content. Government parties expect that the focus in this area will also contribute to better results in the future. The police reform shall facilitate a wider investigation environment and specialist jurisdiction on rape. Specialist competence is important to ensure high quality in the treatment of sexual assault by the police, and the letter of assignment to the Police Directorate incorporates clear leads on the quality and effectiveness of criminal proceedings for sexual offences. So it's prioritized by the government. The proposers are also concerned that those who are subject to rape need multidisciplinary assistance after they have notified the matter. The Right and the Progressive Party support the proposers in the importance of multi-disciplinary assistance. That is why we are also looking forward to the establishment during 2017 of twelve Victim Care Offices in connection with the new police districts. Another important area I want to highlight in my article is how to improve prevention. Of course, it is important to detect, prosecute and follow-up rape cases, but perhaps one of the most important things is what we do to prevent such rapes and sexual infractions. Representatives are also concerned about this in their proposals, and the government is already following up. Here I would like to refer to statements from the Minister of Knowledge yesterday when we discussed filters against pornography. In kindergarten and teacher training, all will now learn about violence and the prevention of violence, and in the new school curricula public health and lifelong learning will be an important part. Students shall be provided with knowledge, competences and attitudes that help to promote health and that they can cope with different situations in their childhood or youth, such as where the limit goes for what is acceptable to their own body or what you do to others. Kripos also has a campaign – How little are you going to find yourself in? – which I hope will also have an effect. I also refer to an important project that was carried out in the municipality of Sortland where the focus was to equip professionals to prevent and detect early sexual abuse. I hope that such good actions in the municipalities will enable us to communicate, so that more people can learn from each other and give greater attention to the topic. Let there be no doubt: violence is a serious social and public health problem, which the Right and the Advance Party take seriously. And we will always focus on the prevention, investigation, prosecution and follow-up of victims also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e954	Children and young people shall grow up in a safe environment without risk of violence and abuse. That's a goal we have to pursue. During this ageing period, cooperation parties have taken important steps to prevent, detect and combat violence and abuse against children and young people, through increased funds to the family protection offices, the State Children’s Home, more social pediatricians and increased resources for police investigators. In addition, we have put in place an escalating plan that will give a billion-dollar lift in the area. I hope this will help help the victims to a far greater extent than we have done in the past. Even though we've done a lot, there's a lot left. Rape is a serious social problem. It injures the human being the most seriously and can cause the exposed person to be traumatised for life. We must therefore prevent much more than we can do today. I am therefore pleased that an overall judicial committee is in favour of a new action plan being presented by the government, that victims of rape in meeting with public authorities, the judiciary, the police and the health services will have a more comprehensive follow-up, and that victims of rape across the country will have access to the reception of rapes, as well as full funding of the victims of the rape. A recent report on the quality of criminal proceedings related to rape and violence in close relations has been presented by the National Advocate General. Here it was found that the quality of the investigation was too poor. Competence in the police and judicial system on rape and assault is very important to combat this serious crime. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee is behind our proposal to ensure the strengthening of police and judicial competence in these matters. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority to set up a new rape committee. Nor did we have a majority to ensure adequate resources and financial frameworks to ensure the quality of the forensic and medical procedures, or an assessment of the appropriateness of more extensive training of laymen in matters of rape. If we are to be able to combat violence and abuse, it is absolutely vital that we strengthen the prevention work. Children and young people need to learn about limit setting, both for themselves and for others. It is important for children and young people to know what limits they can set for themselves and what limits they must set for others. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal to ensure that knowledge of this is provided in kindergarten and school. There we had important formulations in the escalation plan when we dealt with it. Access to drug abuse facilities across the country is important both to help the individual victim and to provide evidence. It is important that children are also given the opportunity to receive help from the offenders. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal to establish an infringement reception throughout the country, and to ensure that they also have the capacity to receive children. We are also promoting today a loose proposal to remove the term ‘rape for sexual intercourse’ from the penal code, to make it clear that rape is a serious crime and has nothing to do with sexual intercourse. Today's wording in the penal code is misleading. A sexual intercourse is based on volunteering, without violence and threatening behavior. The concept should therefore be removed in our opinion. The term ‘rape for intercourse’ has been used in the context of the minimum penalty for the rape in Section 292 of the Criminal Code and in the case of the minimum penalty for the rape of children under 14 years of age in Section 300 of the Criminal Code. The concept is a incorporated legal concept, but that does not mean that it cannot be changed. Our proposal is to replace a term, to ask the government to look at it, and to promote a proposal on how it can be done, not the reality of the penalties. It's important. Many victims of rape feel ashamed after being raped. I think it is important to make it clear that when someone is convicted of rape, the victim is completely innocent. Concepts create attitudes. I therefore believe that the penal code should be amended at this point, and hope that it can have a majority today. I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e977	The representative, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, then mentioned the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e982	First, I would like to thank the proposers, both from the Christian People's Party and from the Workers' Party, for lifting these matters. There are things that are important to be debated, not least here in Stortinget, and there are things that are important that we always focus on, because we are talking here about serious crime and actions that are highly undesirable. The left will also vote for some of the minority proposals contained in these two positions. Among other things, we are also supporters of setting up a new rape committee. It was Left's Rita Sletner who led the previous rape committee, who did a good and important job in this area, and who lifted the case. It is starting to be a few years since this work was done, and we believe it is now time to put down a new sample to do a new job. Things happen, also in this field, and it's important that we're up-to-date. So we see the need for such a selection. As regards proposal II for a decision on case No. 8, on the work on bordering that is going to permeate kindergarten and school, I believe that in many ways it is to enter open doors. There is a work already in progress, and it is doing a lot of good in that field already. But now that we have a case here and now about the issue, which is about rape, I still believe that voting for such a proposal is an important sign. Although we know that something is already happening – and is happening a lot – in that field, the Left will vote for it. Nor do I perceive that there is any political disagreement about the intention behind such a wish. Just that work is something we cross-politically agree to have to do in school and kindergarten. But then I want to say a little bit about the suggestions we're not going to vote for. We are not going to vote in favour of proposal No. 3 to Case No. 8. by the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, or proposal No. 3 to Case No. 9, from the Christian People's Party, which is about attitude changes and training of fellow judges. I fully agree that we still have a long way to go when it comes to attitudes in society in general. At the same time, I think very strongly that we're here on some fundamental issues, because as legislators, we're a state power, just like the judiciary is also a state power. I think we should be very careful about getting into each other's areas, and I think these two proposals are completely at the limit of what the Storting should impose or ask the courts to do. I agree with the intention that we generally need to raise the level of competence in society, but I do not believe that the Storting can go in and oblige the courts to do so against those who are going to judge. It is up to the courts to ensure that those who are to do the job on behalf of society have the necessary knowledge. They must ensure that they do so either through training programmes or by making the actors and other actors in the court more aware of the information on these matters. I would also like to make some comments to the Christian People's Party's loose proposal to change the heading of the penal law §§ 292 and § 300 and remove the term 'rape for intercourse'. Firstly, I disagree with the representative, Ropstad, when he says that that paragraph appears to be something about volunteering. When you read Sections 292 and 300, I do not believe in any way that the paragraph as a whole speaks for any volunteer. On the contrary, when you see that whole chapter of the penal code, you see that there is one paragraph on sexual intercourse, and sexual intercourse is quite a concept. Then the paragraph comes later and talks about ‘rape to intercourse’ and comes with some quite clear descriptions of what this is about, which makes it crooked. That is also why Section 291, on rape, has a lower penalty than Section 292, on the minimum penalty for rape for sexual intercourse, etc., which has a much stricter penalty framework. I'm also skeptical about the way the proposal of the Christian People's Party is designed, because they don't ask the government to look at it, they ask them to change. It's a incorporated legal concept. It may be nice to change, but in that case we do not think that there is anything we do over the table in a Document 8 proposal. In that case, there's something the Council of State has to look at for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1002	I would like to start by thanking the proposers, who have made important proposals for discussion today. Rape is a serious social problem. There are deep traces in those who are exposed to it, and it is a gross criminal act that we all have a responsibility to fight. That is why I am very pleased with the initiatives that have been taken, and with the debate that is now being held. SV supports the intention of most of the proposals that are being promoted, but many of them are similar or very close to each other, so we come back to how we prioritise in our voting. First of all, I took the word to address the SV's resolve that the government should facilitate and ensure the implementation of a ten-year programme against sexual harassment in school. The proposal is drawn up by the Skjeie Committee – the Equality Committee – and is clear that there is a need for a great deal of commitment and systematic work if we are to be able to change attitudes, so that it also changes actions. We know that there are improvements in sexuality education in the form of the presence of safe and accessible adults in children and young people's lives, but systematic efforts are still needed to change attitudes and to raise awareness of gender, body, sexuality and demarcation. When I say sexual harassment, I mean unwanted attention around sex, body and sexuality, everything from getting dressed off with the look to get dressed on, called for whore, or in the utmost consequence being raped. This is about changing your mind about what's good to do with other people, the way it's good to get right on other people's bodies, and then you have to see these things together. I've talked to many young girls who are uncertain about what they have experienced. Is it rape as one wakes up from a party, has been drunk and is uncertain about what has happened, but knows that a friend has slept with you? If it's rape, they're wondering. It shows that there's a very fuzzy awareness of the problem. Anyone understands that when a stranger attacks you on the street and rapes you, it is a criminal act, but all the grey zones make the problem extra demanding to deal with. We know that the vast majority of rapes are committed by someone you know, in close relationships – friends, girlfriends or family. It makes it extremely difficult to report the situation, and the situation becomes extra demanding, because it's double infringement and double infidelity. Then we have to create a greater sense of security and awareness around these questions, so that you are safe in yourself when you say yes, and when you say no, and that the other person also knows that you have to keep to the limits other people set, and even know what the limits of violation are. Just focusing more on this among children and young people is preventing rape early. There is an early effort that is needed, both to ensure that young people know what is a criminal act, to know that it is allowed to set limits, and to know that one must respect and respect the boundaries of others, and that they dare to report when they are subjected to a rape. There is one way to go, and therefore it is absolutely necessary to have a systematic and long-term work to combat sexual harassment and to combat rape, because attitudes decide actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1013	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1018	Rape is a very serious crime that can put lasting, deep traces into the lives of the individual. The reporting frequency is still low, and the provision of assistance and treatment for victims is often of different quality. Society needs to do more. That is why, as Minister of Justice and Security, I have taken the initiative to start work on a new action plan against rape. A new action plan will be the best framework for further work in this area. It will be obligatory and also the best way to target new actions. We now have good knowledge of the fundamentals of the crime scene of rape. New and valuable knowledge shall be transferred to measures in the area of the prevention of rape, for effective correction and for measures ensuring the proper care of the victims. I share the Legal Affairs Committee's recommendation on measures to ensure a more comprehensive follow-up of victims of rape in the meeting with public authorities and health services. The new action plan will capture this through measures that ensure good quality of the country’s reception facilities and health care. At the same time, the establishment of victim care centres will be important for an overall follow-up. Many people need multi-disciplinary assistance after a police report, and therefore, during 2017, twelve victim care offices will be set up in connection with the new police districts following the model of the Support Centre for Injured Persons in Criminal Matters, Trondheim. The action shall improve the follow-up of victims and dependants throughout the proceedings, from notification to legal proceedings. The responsibility of the recipients of the rape lies with the Minister of Health and Welfare. He stressed that children and adults should have good and comprehensive follow-up to healthcare throughout the patient’s course. I am pleased that the offer to offenders has improved since the adoption of the primary responsibility by the specialist healthcare service in 2016: it is stated in a report from the National Centre of Competence in Medical Medicine, published in March 2017. Similarly, the report shows that there are still shortages in some areas. Emergency services are lacking in some places, and forensic competence is not as well maintained throughout the country. At the same time, we should bear in mind that only approx. one year ago, regional health establishments formally assumed responsibility for the provision of children and adults exposed to sexual abuse. Naturally, strengthening offers will take some time, and the Ministry of Health and Welfare will closely follow developments. In the case of several measures to increase police and judicial competence, the results of the 2016 Quality Survey of State Advocates — Rape and Abuse of Related Persons, from May 2017, will strengthen the professional management of the State Advocates against police criminal proceedings in the form of structured, constructive feedback in their regions. At the same time, the report is an important reference to the development work related to the close police reform, where the Directorate of Police is now implementing 20 measures to raise awareness in the field of investigation. The rape section of Kripos is established as a permanent section from 1 March 2016. In particular, the section is responsible for the transfer of competence to the districts and for local advisory assistance. The desire to focus more on rape as a serious social problem is, on my part, fully shared with the proposers. Therefore, both established and new knowledge of rape must be the basis for action in the new action plan against rape. I therefore believe that the forthcoming action plan will capture what has been promoted in the proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1035	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1040	The previous action plan against rape expired in 2014. Little has happened in the future. The challenges of rape have not been solved. Too many people still experience rape, and too few cases are solved. Today we see that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are in favour of an action plan, but against a binding plan. But what about a non-committal plan? It's too bad. The government doesn't want an obliging escalation plan, and I ask myself: in such an important case, which has been a challenge for so many years, what are you going to do with more non-obligatory plans? I would like to ask the Minister why does the government not want the action plan to be binding?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1047	I also do not have the great understanding of why non-binding action plans were to be implemented, which is why I am not aware that we are doing it. Action plans are by definition obligatory. That's exactly why you make them, that's exactly why you anchor them, that's exactly why you have the government treatment you have just when you put in place new action plans. Therefore, there is also considerable political attention to these processes when individual measures are to be taken. So I agree that we don't need non-binding action plans. That is why I intend to put in place an obligatory action plan – as I expect all action plans to be when the government takes them on board – also in this area, in the fight against rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1054	This is similar to the confusion of the hollow rhetoric we had in the discussion in this hall at all yesterday. You want obligations, but you don't want to say it away. The Labour Party wants obligations, and we want to put it away. We want active measures. Yesterday we stood in this hall and discussed a proposal the government could not justify the effect of. The Labour Party now has an effective proposal, and that is right down to the Progress Party – I am talking about proposal No. 1 in the option. The hole in yesterday's rhetoric from the government parties sounds like an echo in the walls here today. This is what works if we want the investigation to get better, more cases to go to the courts and more people to be judged. Why does the Minister of Justice not want the police to give priority to matters, cf. Our proposal No. 1?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1061	I believe it is important to give priority to resolving and combating rape, which is why there is also a clear signal that there is a high priority from the government. And then I have a little bit of difficulty in understanding how to do this problem here, which I think is the right approach. Now we need to first gather the knowledge we have, identify the actions that are most effective, through a new action plan, realise them and put in place good policies that can bring us forward after 2014, when the previous action plan expired. This involves concrete measures that should be targeted, which should be anchored, and which should therefore also be followed up in an obligatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1066	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good report. In my world, we do not operate with non-binding action plans either, so we formulated the proposal as asking for a new action plan, without thinking about it, and that is why the Christian People's Party is voting for what is contained in the Christian People's Party's Document 8, and not for what is in the Workers' Party's, for one cannot vote for two almost identical proposals. I'm also happy with what you're bringing forward in the case of rape receptions. It's true, as the Council of State says, that it's only been a year, and I get good signals from Agder, where it's seemed to work very well. There has been a huge increase, and it also shows that you have confidence in it. But the feedback is that in the case of children, you have competence down to 15 years of age, and that they can be received at the rape ward, but that those under 15 and at least 14 years of age are taken care of by pediatricians instead, who have a completely different follow-up and apparatus around. They don't have the same vigilance 24 hours a day. That is why one of the proposals under consideration today is precisely this. Does the Council agree that ensuring the same level of competence for children is an important issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1073	I have no problem recognising the issue raised by the representative. I believe that there is also something that needs to be assessed in the context of a new obliging action plan, the borderline between children and the follow-up they will receive, and persons aged 15 to 16 years and up. That borderline is important. What is crucial is that we get good offers in place to take care of the offended. That's a high priority. And I agree with the representative that when you give a clear signal from the Stortinget, and that is a clear signal from the government, it must be one of the best-founded action plans that we have ever started – when both the collapse and the government signal it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1080	On 28 April, the Advocate General delivered a report on the quality of polling. The report found that Norwegian police are too poor on track safety in electoral cases, that the quality of such cases varies, and that the use of hidden research methods is never assessed, as well as others are missing. On 10 May, the Council of State sent letters to the Judicial Committee in connection with these two proposals for representatives on electoral articles, which we are debating today, stating that he does not have direct plans to submit a new action plan against electoral articles. But a couple of weeks later, on 29 May, he says to the VG that he promises a new action plan against electoral articles. As shown, the knowledge of the quality of the polls already led the Council of State to send its letter to the Judicial Committee. Therefore, I would like to ask you what is the reason why the Council of State has changed its meaning during the month of May.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1088	I will be so honest to say that when I became more aware of the Riksadvokat's findings, which I believe are quite serious, and which point towards doing more, it was my opinion that we had to put in place a new action plan against rape. It's just to take on board that we have challenges in this area that aren't adequately addressed. Even after consulting people in the field, who are working on this daily, and especially volunteers, I am quite convinced of the need to put in place new measures, not least based on the new knowledge that we have gained in this area since 2014, which is not insignificant, and which I believe citizens that we can put in place effective measures that could strengthen the fight against rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1093	It is a major social problem that too few people are convicted of rape. There is also a problem that there are too few charges against rape, and there is a big problem that there are too few reports of rape. Obviously, there are many things that lie behind this, but one of the important things is what happens at the police. It is important that those who are victims of rape feel believed and taken seriously. It is important that there is a good investigation, which can in turn provide the basis for prosecution and possible conviction. There were many reasons why we agreed, and that there is a broad majority behind the police reform. One of the reasons is that we have to be able to do a better job in these important matters. So my question to the Minister of Justice is, what are we doing out in the police districts because just such things as this are being treated in an even better way than it's been done to now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1100	Like the representative, it is also my view – and fortunately the view of a large majority in this Chamber – that near-police reform is an effective step towards strengthening police districts in all investigations in general, but especially in terms of revealing and investigating and providing a good basis for prosecution of rape cases. Because that's not good enough. This is about putting in place the investigation promise, which will enable the police to deal with these kinds of issues as well. So I think that those results will show up as we get out next year, that we'll get a better follow-up on things that are going on in court. But I share the view of the representative that it is important to report rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1105	It is good to hear that the Council of State in its statement is so clear about the view of rape as a serious social problem. Then I would like to hear how the Council of State views prevention. What is the main strategy for the prevention of rape today? Does the Council of State see the need for increased efforts to prevent rape?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1110	I believe that in the fight against rape – as serious crime – we must follow all the tracks. It's about getting up the reporting rate, and it's about punishing, we're also getting sentence and punishment for those who commit these kinds of acts, and it's clearly being punished by society. However, prevention — here, as in all other contexts of combating crime — is also important. This is about attitudes, and I believe that we all have a responsibility in the general debate and how we talk about and what attitudes we have towards the other sex. There, I think, we also have challenges in the immigrant community that we need to make clear, and that I think we should be able to be clear. But I also believe that this must be addressed in the context of the action plan, that is the prevention side.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1115	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1120	It's really just a explanation of vote, because I didn't say anything in the post about solving the proposal of the Christian People's Party. We will not, from the Right and the Advance Party, support that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1125	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1141	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1150	I would first like to thank the proposers for promoting a good and important proposal to strengthen their efforts to exploit children in trafficking in human beings. I would also like to thank the Committee on what I understand has been a very good and constructive cooperation on the matter, on behalf of the representative, Mr Vågslid, who has been the case rapporteur. The Christian People's Party has been promoting eleven proposals in the proposal for a representative. I would first like to do my best for the Committee's comments and then come up with the proposals. According to the United Nations, as many as 27 million people are currently exposed to human trafficking in the world. The Committee agrees with the proposers that this is the slavery of our time. The most vulnerable groups to trafficking in human beings are children. Figures from the ILO show that about 5.5 million children are exposed to global trafficking. To a large extent, we are talking about the same gross exploitation as adults, where children are used in prostitution, subjected to gross sexual abuse or gross exploitation as labour. It is difficult to quantify how many children are exposed to trafficking in Norway. The Committee is concerned about the developments pointed out by the proposers with regard to the disappearance of asylum recipients. It is feared that children will be drawn into criminal environments, exploited or exposed to criminal acts, such as trafficking in human beings. The Committee agrees with the proposers that good cross-sectoral cooperation is a challenge and that the division of tasks in these cases is too vague. This is what the Committee believes it needs to be addressed. Furthermore, the Committee considers it essential that police have a wide range of means of investigation, that they have good capacity to investigate human trafficking issues, and that follow-up of children to trafficking in human beings should be strengthened. For example, when children are under abuse waiting for an asylum application to be answered, immediate help must be provided. The Committee shall submit the following proposals for decisions: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the first-line services of child protection, police and Foreign Affairs administration have adequate competence in trafficking involving children’. ‘The Government asks the Government to review the confidentiality rules for the first line of child protection services, the police and the Foreign Administration in order to ensure that these do not prevent cooperation in matters relating to minor victims of trafficking in human beings.’ ‘The government is asking the government to ensure greater competence in trafficking in human beings in those representing lone minor asylum seekers.’ ‘The government asks the government to ensure that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers with limited residence due to a lack of ID are immediately resident.’ The Labour Party also supports proposals to set up a central unit responsible for lone minor asylum seekers who are exposed to trafficking in human beings, to the responsibility of the State Children's House for questioning children exposed to trafficking in human beings, to ensure that children exposed to human trafficking have access to specialist health services and to ensure the rapid settlement of lone minor asylum seekers — in particular those between 15 and 18 years of age — to set up a team against trafficking in human beings and to provide legal responsibility for lone minor asylum seekers and the kind of care they require. I am thus addressing the proposals I referred to, and the Christian People's Party is coming on behalf of the Workers' Party to do further good for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1178	The representative Lise Wiik has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1183	I will be allowed to thank the case rapporteur, through the representative Lise Wiik, for a good job. As the representative Wiik was in the room, we are pleased that a person not only uses the term ‘trafficking’, but that one also makes it clear that it is the slavery of our time. It's important to clarify it, because that's what it is. Trafficking in human beings is slavery, and it shows how serious the situation actually is for too many people. As the representative Wiik mentioned, it is estimated that 27 million people live in slavery. According to the ILO — the International Labour Organisation — about 5.5 million children live as slaves in the world today. Of course, the estimates are uncertain because there are millions of children and young people living in slavery who do not have good routines to catch up with the children, but what we can be sure of is that there are millions of children and young people living in slavery. Often when we talk about slavery and human trafficking, we think that something is happening out there, far from Norway. That's not true. Children are also exploited as slaves in Norway. Recently, it has been found that Nordics exploit foreign children by ordering an online attack. It's completely reprehensible what adults make themselves do. Children are children, regardless of where they live or where they come from. We therefore have a responsibility to combat such abuses as well. This effort must be intensified. Millions of people are fleeing from war and misery. There is a high risk that single minor asylum seekers, who are on the run, will be exploited by cynical backers. And many children who live at Norwegian reception disappear without us knowing what the cause is, or where they're going. It's unsustainable. I am therefore pleased that the Christian People's Party is today taking on important measures to strengthen the situation and legal certainty of children living in slavery. A Single Judicial Committee now agrees to ensure the competence of the first line of child protection services, the police and the foreign administration as well as to review the confidentiality rules for the first line of child protection, police and foreign administration in order to ensure that these do not prevent cooperation in cases involving minor victims of trafficking in human beings. A Single Judicial Committee has also been set up to ensure greater competence in trafficking in human beings representing lone minor asylum seekers and that single minor asylum seekers with limited residence due to a lack of ID should be immediately settled. It is good and will help prevent and combat trafficking in human beings better than we can do today. I would like to thank the Justice Committee for that. I am also pleased that we have a majority together with the Labour Party and the Central Party in the vote, and as the representative Lise Wiik mentioned, I will go a little further into the proposals. They have a majority in the committee, but I understand that the Left also supports them – at least they have announced it in the media – and the Socialist Left supports them. That's very good. What we agree on in proposals for decisions is the establishment of a central unit responsible for the follow-up of minor victims of trafficking in human beings. It shall also be able to provide guidance on local child protection in cases where trafficking in human beings is suspected, as well as on the responsibility of the State Children's House to question children who are subject to trafficking in human beings, in line with what they do to other children who are subjected to serious violence and abuse. We are now also going to put in place a team that is working to detect victims and prevent children from being exposed to human trafficking or recruited to criminal environments from asylum recipients. We know that when Wvalstad received it, it gave very good results. We hope it can do it in the rest of the country as well. The Children’s Convention obliges Norway to provide the necessary care to lone minor asylum seekers. UDI has wanted stricter requirements to be imposed on the care of single-year-old asylum seekers. National human rights institutions have also requested this. It is therefore good that we are now getting an impact in order to establish minimum standards for this. Children who are exposed to trafficking need help to process what they have been exposed to. I am therefore pleased that we have a majority in favour of access to specialist health services for children who are exposed to trafficking in human beings, so that they can quickly be helped to deal with trauma. It is also important to ensure the rapid settlement of lone minor asylum seekers in order to ensure good integration. That's why it's very important that we get an impact on it. On the other hand, the Christian People's Party does not have the means to eliminate access to limited residence for single minor asylum seekers aged 15 to 18. I'm sorry, because children need predictability. Once you've visited this group of young people, a despair is living with life waiting. Therefore, it is sad that we do not get Stortinget to agree to it today. But we don't give up and come back to it later. I finally take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1208	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1213	I want to start by thanking the proposers from the Christian People's Party for addressing the matter. The group that this case is about is one of the most vulnerable groups we have. What they've gone through is almost unimaginable. At least it's hard to imagine everything they've experienced on the way to where they had to be today. It makes many of these very vulnerable and vulnerable to being victims of both criminal networks and trafficking in human beings. These are serious issues we are discussing here. The left will support the Committee's recommendation. We are also going to support the proposals of the minority, and I want to give an explanation of vote. I am concerned that the police reform will also have an impact on this group. That we strengthen the police in the way we are now in the process of doing, must be visible again when we talk about these people, who are perhaps among the most vulnerable we have in this country. I would like to link comments to two of the proposals, and that is for the first minority proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, to set up a team: It's good experience working team-based from before. I think what's important is that there are people where this happens. You can't have one team sitting in Oslo, and you can't control everything that's going on out there. There must be a team out there, where this happens, that can capture the currents that are. There must be teams of people with different skills, where the police should be among those who contribute their skills. I also want to say something about the central unit. It is clear from the representative proposal from the Christian People's Party that one can imagine a central unit established both in child protection and in the police. As we see it, it is important that such a central unit focuses more on the children and needs they have than on the research part of this issue. So for us, it's most natural that we see such a central unit tied up against child protection, just to take care of the children's needs and the children's concerns. I think it's an important matter that has been raised, and I hope that there will be a majority for several of the proposals, because I think it's important that we, as elected representatives, take care of the group that can't take care of itself. That's also our problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1228	Trafficking in human beings is among the most serious crimes that some people may be exposed to, and those who are exposed to it are those who are vulnerable, alone and have no one — neither family nor government — to take care of themselves. Earlier today, we have discussed the Civil Ombudsman's annual report. There he points out that it is a long way to go before Norway takes on as good a responsibility for lone minor asylum seekers as for the rest of the population. Yesterday, the annual report of the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights was discussed, which states directly that Norway is breaking the Child Convention and its obligations in the case of lone minor asylum seekers. Then it's not just the Civil Ombudsman who can take care of people, it's a big deal and a government that has to make sure that the law is in line with our international obligations, and it's not. We all know that single minor asylum seekers are exposed to all kinds of crime, including trafficking in human beings. We know that when they are in Norway, those over the age of 15 have a much lower provision of housing and care than Norwegian children of the same age group, if they are without parents and superiors. That is what is at the heart of the criticism of human rights in Norway, namely that we treat these children differently from our own children. This does not mean that they believe that these children should enter child protection institutions, but they believe that they should have a care and housing service in line with Norwegian children aged 15 to 18 who are under the responsibility of child protection. It has promoted it many times, but it has not brought the majority to it. This government has even proposed that the offer to those under the age of 15 should also be reduced – i.e. that discrimination between our children and other children should increase. I was listening to Minister Horne when Fafo presented his report on trafficking in human beings and lone minor asylum seekers. She said that all children in Norway are our children. I just have to say that it doesn't mean it's true that the government, and the majority of the population, follow it up. For years we have known that criminals know well who to look for, who is alone. They find them, there is fear and loneliness of many of these young people. They're caught by criminals, and they're being abused. And of course, many of them become marine criminals. With the change that the majority of people have made, both by allowing temporary residence for them under 18 years of age – something that SV took on when we were in government – and by removing the reasonable conditions of internal migration, many more lone minor asylum seekers are now in a limbo, which makes them run away from reception and become even more vulnerable. What we know is that when you're in a country without having rights to be it -- is paperless or statusless in different areas -- the political majority tends to make it a serious criminal act, while the actions of these people are subjected to are much less attention. It's SV and I are furiously disagreeing. That is why we have put forward proposals in the municipal committee to reintroduce the reasonableness condition and to ensure that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers are treated equally with our own children. I am very pleased with the proposal that the Christian People's Party has made on this matter in the Committee on Justice, and we agree to it. I also have a comment on the proposal for Decision V. There, I think we also need to stress that all police districts need to have competence in this area, and that it is not enough to gather everything into a central unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1245	Man's wickedness knows no limitation at times. That is why the representative proposal from the Christian People's Party is timely. That is why the focus of the Justice Committee is also timely. And that's why the Support The Storing is going to give this to you today, completely in place – simply because there are people who go to the most extreme of the extreme when it comes to the abuse of the weakest in society. Yesterday, the Judicial Committee discussed how we could better deal with the elderly who are subjected to violence of a different nature and by different people. You have the same focus today. I think the best way to evaluate a society is to look at how to take care of the weakest of the weakest. Although there are nuances – after listening to the debate now – in how one believes the challenges that the Christian People's Party has addressed are to be solved, there can be no doubt and should be no doubt that we have a common ambition and a common goal to reduce the number of children exposed to something that is not lawful. But in the extension of it, it is unfortunately a fact that those we fight against have no limitations. They don't have any scruples. Because if it was that way that everyone behaved according to the framework and rules of society pulled up, this would have solved itself, but those you fight against have no such limitations. That's why it's hard to find a tool and a system that combats it, on a scale that's so large that we can say that we're satisfied. With the background of the proposal and the intention of the Christian People's Party, I fully support it, but we're not going to finish today, we're not going to finish tomorrow, for every time you pull a constraint to fight it, the ones we're going to try to stop, to find new ways to exploit their victims. That doesn't mean we're going to calm down, and we're going to relax, on the contrary. But I don't think we're ever done. That's something I think you have to be left with after such a debate -- that you're not satisfied, but that you see that you've come a little further, and that's a plus anyway, because as long as some of the weakest, it's the oldest or the youngest, don't have a good everyday life in Norwegian society, we all have a job to do. The same applies, of course, to those of the Nordics who commit unacceptable illegal acts abroad because they may be easier to get away with it. Our goal as legislators and as granting authority must be to use every opportunity we have to fight and stop this kind of action. It's probably the worst when we get feedback that it's our own who do it, because the North is basically known as jovial, good and kind people with a big heart. We have the annual TV action where we collect large amounts and give for a specific purpose. I don't know how many other countries are doing it, but it says something about the quality, initially, of the regular Northman. At the same time, it is a fact that the Nordics are going out to other countries to commit sexual assault on children. So it's a two-way challenge, at least like that, the Progress Party and I see it. We have to do everything we can at any time to combat it, at the same time there will be people who have it in themselves that they want to achieve this kind of action. Then it will be our challenge to fight it in a way that is as optimal as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1258	The government does not accept trafficking in human beings in Norway or in any other country. We are working to strengthen and implement work on trafficking in human beings on a broad front, both nationally and internationally. In December 2016, the government presented an action plan against trafficking in human beings. The plan concluded that efforts to combat trafficking in human beings continue and become more effective to prevent all forms of trafficking in human beings in Norway. The plan was very clear that particular attention should be paid to minor victims. We cannot accept any form of child exploitation in Norway. The attitude of the Judicial Committee on the proposal for a representative under consideration shows that an overall increase is in line with this view. Identifying a child as a victim of trafficking in human beings can be difficult, and it requires that child protection, police and foreign agencies cooperate well and have a high level of competence. The action plan is clear that there is a general need to strengthen and coordinate capacity-building measures on trafficking in human beings. The level of knowledge in the police and the prosecution authority needs to be raised. It is essential that both the operational force, those involved in prevention and border inspectors be given increased competence to prevent and detect more trafficking in human beings. The Police Directorate has taken on responsibility for implementing good responsibilities. In 2016, a circular on child protection management of cases where minors may be exposed to trafficking in human beings was completed. It provides a good overview of the role and means of child protection. The Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate has been given the task of ensuring that the circulars are followed. Development of competence in the sector is considered important and new learning systems will be established. The Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate is now developing a new e-learning system. On this basis, I support the Committee's proposal on the enhancement of competences, which is caught by the measures already contained in the action plan. Representatives of lone minor asylum seekers receive training, guidance and assistance from the State of each district. This is the result of today's legislation. The county council shall, inter alia: ensure that representatives are aware of the asylum procedure and the management of foreign affairs. In addition, the County shall consider the need for immersion in the theme in addition to initial training. The theme of trafficking in human beings is specifically mentioned as a topical theme in today’s guidelines for the county office. I trust that the county officials will provide the representatives with the training and guidance they need in order to be able to carry out the mission as a representative in a good way. A majority of the Committee has proposed the establishment by the government of a central unit responsible for the follow-up of minor victims of trafficking in human beings and guidance to local child protection offices in matters where trafficking in human beings is suspected. I have noticed that this is suggested, among others. by researchers who have prepared a report for the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. Other proposals have also been made with a view to enhancing the competence of child protection and improving cooperation and coordination between sectors. The Children's, Youth's and Family's Directorate has been given the task of examining all proposals. There is a need for a thorough review of relevance, feasibility and costs. I do not want the Stortinget to decide on the creation of a new unit prior to the ongoing investigations. The same majority suggest that the government assigns responsibility to the State Children's House for questioning children who are exposed to human trafficking, in line with other ill-fated children. I would remind you that the action plan against trafficking in human beings states that the questioning of ‘of children in cases where there is a suspicion of trafficking in human beings shall take place as far as possible at the State Children’s House’. Furthermore, I point out that the common guidelines for the operation of the State Children's House were completed on 1 November 2016. It is foreseen that the guidelines will be revised during this year. The questioning of minor victims of trafficking in children’s homes will be a topic of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1279	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1285	Today, we have a central unit that coordinates and helps adults who are exposed to human trafficking – ROSA. I think we can all agree that they're doing an excellent job. It works very well, and I guess we're all happy that they exist. Therefore, it is a little difficult for me to understand that the Council of State and the Government do not want a similar offer for the children who are being traded on human beings. Governments talked both yesterday and today about victims of crime, and these children are most vulnerable to serious crime. Why doesn't the government want to give children who are being traded on human beings an offer as good as adults?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1294	I share the representative's view that ROSA is doing a good and important job, and that it is an important player who takes the utmost care of an important purpose. I will not initially reject the idea raised by the representative, but I think that what is important now is that good and effective action is put in place, and that we do not continue to put on even more without a knowledge-based, well-founded basis for the actions that we are actually implementing. I understand and have a great understanding of all the intentions that are of the best, but I'm also very concerned that the measures and changes that you actually make are knowledge-based, that we know they work, and that they are the most effective measures we can take.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1301	This is the last case we deal with related to trafficking in human beings during this period, and the cooperation parties have prioritised it high in budgets and various other measures. I'm pleased with the commitment the Council of State shows to combat our time's slavery. At the same time, when I heard the speech to the Council of State, I was a little uncertain as to how much he was willing to follow up the proposals that seem to have a majority today, but the government parties are not behind it. As he has explained many times, he will of course follow up on what the Storting decides, both what goes on in a central unit, and what goes on in questioning in the children's houses. We are fully aware that it will be demanding, that it will have costs, but it will be very important for victims of human trafficking. My question is not whether he intends to follow up, but when he sees that it is possible to implement and implement it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1310	Of course, the representative Rupstad is quite right. It is the task of a Council of State to follow the decision of the Storting. Then, of course, you can discuss what are the most effective measures. I think we all agree on the goal. So that's the way forward -- what's the most effective thing we can do, how can we use the resources best to achieve that goal? I will, of course, promise that we will implement and implement the measures adopted by the Storting today as soon as possible. We might disagree in what order we put in action measures, we might disagree on how fast you go forward, what you prioritize, but in the whole we're all looking for the same goal, and then I think it's natural to follow the recipe that Stortinget says. We have to work out from it, and then there is no reason to do anything but implement it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1317	If you want to work effectively against trafficking in human beings, you must at least make sure not to increase the number of children exposed to it. Unfortunately, in Norway today an increasing number of children are exposed because they are lone minor asylum seekers and in such a poor care situation that the national human rights institution has notified the Stortinget that we are violating the Children’s Convention by not offering these children in line with the Norwegian child who is without parents and guardians. That means you have to have more to take care of. Now there are 186 children who have disappeared, and what we also know is that no one is looking for them when they get away. Will the Council of State ensure that an offer is made to these children equivalent to the Norwegian child under the care of the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1324	I believe that the obviously most important measure we can take to protect this group is to limit unaccompanied minor asylum seekers to Norway without any need for protection. It is a long, dangerous journey — a long, dangerous journey of these children through Europe and Norway. It is not only in Norway that they are at risk of being subjected to terrible abuse, but also on their way here. Therefore, I believe that one of the most important measures that we as a society can have is schemes that do not provide incentives for people, i.e. minors who do not have a need for protection, to get to Norway. It is precisely through the dangerous journey you are facing the greatest risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1331	This means that the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1338	We were there again – where the Council of State reveals that he does not understand the authorities' obligation under the Convention on the Rights of the Child to take care of all unauthorised children in Norway who are without parents or care, regardless of why they are here. It is quite encouraging to hear a Norwegian government council that believes that youth, for example. from Afghanistan, breaking up for fun. This is young people who experience terrible things before they leave. They're leaving because they're afraid of life. And then we have a government in Norway and authorities in Europe that eventually don't believe in any of the world's things for the protection reasons these young people have. I've been talking to young people who've seen their brothers get shot, where mom is begging the 17-year-old to leave. I don't know who in this room wouldn't beg his child to leave if you risked being shot in the home country. But the Norwegian authorities believe that it is safe. When they are here, the Council of State and the Government are holding their hands – contrary to what the National Institute of Human Rights, which the Stortinget has just established to ensure that we comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, says, and which has given us clear and unambiguous advice that these children should have care in line with that of Norwegian children who have no parents or guardians. It's not like that today. It is an offer with a much lower standard and fewer caregivers. These are some of the most lonely young people in the world, and what we know about lonely young people who don't see a future is that they're looking for someone. We also know that the most serious criminals are out looking for just these kids, because it seems to them. They'd need a "fuck in life," all of them. I record that the government we now have will not even follow a clear indication from an independent institution that can interpret our international obligations with regard to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but continues an ideological fight against some of the most vulnerable young people in the world, and who are seeking asylum alone. They're not on interrail, and it's quite right that many of them are exposed to terrible things on the trip, too, but it's government and Norway's duty to make sure that as long as those young people are here in the country, we have to take care of them as well as our own young people. It does not do the government and the majority of the population, and SV is going to come forward with those proposals over and over again, until we fulfil our obligations to these children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1349	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1365	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1374	The proposers shall have a favourable opinion in order to maintain the attention of organised crime and recriminalism. The question is whether more demands, more measures and more objectives from the Storing are now the right way to go, in the light of the many measures that the Storing has already adopted, which are being implemented out there. Reciprocal crime and organised crime are inextricably linked. Kripos’ trend report for 2016 provides a very insightful briefing on what this really is. Recurrent crime is very often linked to drug trafficking. Profits from drug trafficking are money laundering, ploughed into the ordinary economy and challenge safe, decent jobs. At that time, we are faced with the problem of labour-criminalism, for which the government has presented an action plan. Reciprocal crime is also inextricably linked to arms sales and to doping networks. This is a very serious crime that has major societal implications. Let's look back a little bit. About two years ago, we adopted the police reform. One of the main reasons we adopted a police reform was precisely the crime scene we see, a new crime scene that has come very quickly – the organized crime that is cross-border, which is often international networks operating very quickly across borders. That's why the police are now organised in such a way that they are able to make better use of their own resources, gather power locally and stand better armed, including against reindeer crime. The proposalers are also involved in the prevention work. The prevention work is very important in the problem we are discussing here. The problem with police prevention is that it has been a coincidence, according to the police analysis. It has often been driven by fires, it has been little systematic, and it has been very little measurable. Now, with the police reform, prevention is being put into a completely different system, so that it also has prospects of getting far better than today. In addition, police contacts are established in each municipality. I would also like to mention the establishment of a common analysis and situation centre where the police and controls sit together to share information and have a common understanding of the situation related to organised crime and how it moves. I would also like to mention that the government, with the consent of Stortingen, has implemented a data-reading system in which encrypted information can be accessed and broken, which is a very important tool in the way these people communicate. We have dealt with trafficking in human beings earlier today. The government has also presented an action plan against trafficking in human beings and a strategy against crime at work, which I discussed earlier in my speech. Proposal providers also address the issue of professional secrecy. Yes, it's a challenge to practice the obligation of confidentiality in the public sector. The government is now investigating this. However, it is also claimed that the scope of action which lies in the practice of the obligation of professional secrecy for which the law opens up is not used. So you shouldn't be too quick to conclude that the obligation of professional secrecy is simply a barrier to the exchange of information between the agencies that need information. We already have rules on bans today, and we have exit programmes for gang members who have been punished and who are being followed up in the prosecution. In sum, a lot is now being done in this area. The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that the sum of measures, plans and strategies, and not least the police reform, are powerful instruments for addressing the problem raised by the proposers. Reciprocal crime is inextricably linked to other types of crime. We have also cooperated with the Baltic Sea Task Force, where we have close operational border cooperation between eleven nations in our neighbourhoods, and we are also an active partner and participant in Frontex and Europol.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1395	In the last big time, I had the pleasure of being the Vice-Chairman of the Judicial Committee, Per Sandberg was the leader, and we had active members of the Committee who are also in the Judicial Committee today: Anders B. Werp, Ulf Leirstein, Jenny Klinge. We left a trail when it came to getting involved in organized crime and how we're going to fight it. We traveled to Sweden and Germany and discussed with them. We were in Romania and Poland. We visited the rendezvous project in Oslo. We had a common understanding of what this is all about. And as the representative of Riveres was in there, understanding organized crime is the key to understanding very much of the crime we're looking at on the street or elsewhere. Rivers mentioned many covert areas for the activities of organised criminals. You could add that they really go into every crime scene where it's possible to make money, and where there's the least risk of getting caught and punished. They affect very much, down to what is happening in violence, drug trafficking in schools and youth settings in Oslo, which we have seen in recent reports, and which are very worrying. We agreed in the Justice Committee that we should bet on organized crime. We built up our efforts by making a big message about organized crime, which had a unanimous attitude. What was special here was that the Progress Party made a proposal that wanted a separate national unit to combat organised crime. So the Progress Party went against what is being done today, where sections against organised crime in the police districts are being closed down. They wanted to pull them out and create a national unit against organized crime. It was the proposal, about which there was a lot of discussion in the media and otherwise. We thought we'd build it up in every police district, then build these sections against organized crime. We put a lot into it, and there were eventually large and quite useful units against organized crime in many of the police districts. In order to understand organized crime, it is important to know that those who govern it do not commit crime themselves. They have enough of the minions and enough of the alliance partners who commit the crime and who can be taken for it by investigating the incidents. But the backers, the leaders of organized crime, are largely never taken. So if we now put up with everyone's involvement in reactive work and just build up the research capacity and shut down the sections against organized crime, those who have been sitting and focusing long-term on following these environments and building knowledge in order to roll them up, the danger is that we will lose the grip even more when it comes to how to fundamentally fight the gangs and the crime they create. It is not contrary to the police reform and is not creating parallel processes, as I see it in the position, whether the Stortinget underlines the fight against organised crime and its place in the police reform. I think the Harek Rivers made a point with many good points about what organized crime is all about. We'll achieve something when the Storting says it in the debate here today. But I don't understand why you can't help giving these signals, and why you say it's in contradiction with the implementation of the police reform. Then there will be a question in the air about what to put in it, because we do not propose a stop to the police reform, even if it is emphasised that this field should be further prioritised. I believe that we cannot continue to see that there are criminal gangs around, especially in the capital area, but also elsewhere in the country, as I know them, with 60-90 full-time and 150-300 recruits, with alliances to international mafia, and get jobs in peace. Leaders get to work undisturbed, because it's the minions, the people who do things on the street, who are being investigated and taken. There is a need for a more fundamental response to these cores in the gangs, which have kept in place year after year without being taken. The only major advance has been the reproduction project, which lasted four to five years. We need to make sure that we get similar bets going forward, because what unfortunately happens is that they build up and are the root of a lot and more and more of the crime we see on the street.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1412	Does the representative Bøhler wish to take up the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1417	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1422	The representative Jan Boehler has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1427	First of all, I would like to thank you for the commitment shown by the gamblers to the efforts against organised criminal networks. It is important that, in criminal policy, we can unite on key priorities, which will strengthen the capacity of society to both prevent and combat serious crime. A well-organised and powerful police force is a prerequisite for success in this work. I believe that through organisational measures, increased resources and new methods, we have made it possible for the police to be better able to meet the challenges of organised criminal networks in both a good and a long-term way. The police are now in the midst of the great reform work of the time. In parallel with the structural changes made in the near-police reform, several important measures are being implemented as part of this quality reform. The action plan for raising the field of investigation and strengthening criminality and analysis are other important elements for good and targeted action. The police’s access to new hidden coercive measures in the investigation, interception and prevention of serious crime also builds up the police’s ability to meet the challenges faced by the representatives here. As I see it, the work now being done in the police districts will have an impact not only on the more pointed effort against organized criminal gangs, but also on the prevention of criminal gangs and recruitment to these environments. Prevention is a central part of the implementation of police reform. Prevention should be the primary strategy across police activities and in all areas of crime, including recrime. Close-up policy reform will provide stronger structures for local preventive cooperation. Among other things, all municipalities should have a permanent police contact. This shall contribute to the prioritisation and continuous follow-up of prevention activities. Police and SLT cooperation are existing and important forums for anchoring and strengthening local efforts and also for preventing and combating re-crime. As the representatives stress, sharing information is an important premise to succeed in good and effective multidisciplinary and cross-disciplinary cooperation, also in order to prevent the recruitment of young people to criminal gangs. The Government will therefore carry out an investigation into current legislation with a view to clarifying when there is an obligation or right to provide information to the police, child protection or other authorities. This work shall form the basis of a cross-sectoral, practical guide. The investigation will also clarify any need for regulatory changes. Preventing young people from either being linked to criminal environments, committing crime or falling back into repeated crime is an important objective. Individual follow-up is therefore central, both through prevention and through responses to criminal prosecution. It is also important that key actors in such cooperation are locally anchored, an consideration that is relevant to the exit work. This must be anchored locally and the device must be adapted to the individual situation. Now, as we know, today's system is doing just that. Combating organised criminal gangs is important, as they have the capacity to carry out crime that appears to be both serious and socially damaging. I agree with the majority of the Judicial Committee that the ongoing reform work of the police, strengthening police budgets and access to new methods will make Norway better equipped in the future to deal with repeat crime and organised crime. It is important that there are no parallel or overlapping processes that could complicate the current police transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1445	When the Council of State says he is confident that we will strengthen the work against organized crime through the police reform because we get larger units, etc., I have to say that what is my point is the difference between reactive working – investigating events, strengthening the investigation capacity, getting more people to move out on events – and a long-term strategic job to roll up organised criminals who do not commit crime themselves. In the rendezvous project, for example, one had to have 40 pieces that worked for five years before getting hold of one of the gangs, namely the B gang, and got them out of play for a good period of time. Doesn't the Council of State see the difference between reactive work, for which research capacity is now being built up, and what we are calling for, prioritizing the long-term work with some environments behind a lot of crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1450	I don't see that there's any contradiction between what the representative refers to, the reactive reaction in an incident, the police intervention, and the concrete, short-term follow-up, and the second track, which is about strategic, long-term work. Both tracks must be followed up, and that is the task of the police. I believe that there is no contradiction between the investigation promise and what lies in the police reform – increased resources and increased crews, which is very important especially for the capital, which only this year receives over 100 new annual works in addition to those being replaced and going into retirement. Both matters are important and must be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1458	I thank the Council of State for the answer. To give an example: in one of these environments that's been very stuck now, in one of these areas, the police are doing a lot a day. They move out on events, investigate them, and are more at stake in taking events. The problem is to take the backers, take the main characters – as they know who is. But it's a long step from knowing who they are, and what they're doing, to judging it. Then I've asked, what is needed to get to it, and they say, we need 30 men working on it for a few years, to roll this up, because these are professional criminals who don't do things themselves. That's what I'm asking the Council of State, how are we going to solve it? The rendezvous was one attempt at what was left of the previous Judicial Committee. Does the Council agree that such measures must also find a place within the new reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1465	Absolutely! There is no doubt that you must also have room for the long-term work. It's absolutely crucial. If you want to take the backers, to which the representative refers, you have to work long-term, you have to work strategically, and you have to accept that you set aside some resources – over time – that work on such things. As I say, I don't see the opposite ratio. But, of course, I have a expectation that the strengthening, the significant historical construction of the Norwegian police that we are now seeing, will also enable the police to work that way. I want to be a little restrained by detailing the police in how they're going to handle these things. It is natural that the police are given such a mission, and that they are taken care of, but I would warn against too much detailed police management.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1472	Thanks for that answer, too, which is approaching a concrete explanation of how we're going to take the numbers. There is a considerable difference between prevention by establishing police contacts in municipalities, which are youth prevention, and prevention of criminal gangs. The Oslo police, at a large unit called Special Operations, spent 10 months averting the fact that the NOKASs who were on duty, gave a new, large criminal estimate — and were taken for it. That was ten months of work. That's the kind of effort we're concerned about not being taken care of if you're going to work more and more reactively. So I want to ask the Council of State, when he says that we should not initiate parallel processes, and when the Council of State so strongly agrees with the fight against organised crime: why is it wrong that the Stortinge signal that the police reform should be carried out just as well or better in the future? That is what the Council of State wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1479	I fully agree with the representative that it is not necessarily the case that police contacts will be the great solution for Oslo. But Norway is a complex country with large and small municipalities, and I think the police contacts will be important in – let's say – the municipality of Lenvik. When we talk about the capital, there are very special challenges there that are not present in the same way elsewhere in this country. This is because – given the special position you stand in the capital and given the special challenges you have – you have to be able to apply solutions other than those that might work in Bodø, in Tromsø or in Lenvik, for that matter. So I'm completely open to it. I believe that it is a natural expectation that the police have – through the ordinary management processes – to do so. But the fact that the Storting should go in and adopt an A4 solution for how this should be handled, I would warn against.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1484	It is a good thing that the Council of State does not want the detailed rule. It is also a good thing that this should be part of the police reform, and that the districts should work systematically on this over time, but how does the Council actually see that one should do so when the consultant report, which they themselves ordered and received, has demonstrated that the police district action room is reduced by well over 400 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1489	It is a little strange to listen to the representative Tajik who I now see criticising me for too much detail management. Finally, it was not enough to run the police, so it is a little difficult for me to follow up on what I am accused of by the representative Hadia Tajik. A few weeks ago, I was driving too much – or was it the opposite? In any case, the important issues raised in this proposal for a representative will be addressed through the police reform of ongoing processes. Then I see that imposing further measures on the police – additional governance – is not necessarily the best way to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1494	I may not be able to solve the confusion in the Council of State's head, but I can repeat my question. When one expects this to be resolved by the police districts within the framework of their economy and within the framework of the police reform, the question is quite simply: how will a few get to it, when, under the leadership of the Progress Party, they have a significantly reduced space of action, almost half a billion dollars less than they had before? It is documented by a consultant report that they themselves have ordered – that is, by independent professionals, there is nothing the Labour Party says. But independent professionals, who have themselves asked the Progress Party to look at the economy of police districts, say that the action space has been substantially reduced. So when he's not going to take any initiative and he's not going to be a driver or he's going to secure their economy, how are you going to solve these tasks related to organized crime when you don't secure the economic space to actually get it done?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1501	Perhaps it should not be necessary to remind the representative Tajik that, in fact, through these years this government has ruled, we have facilitated a historic uplift for the police. Yes, we are implementing a police reform that is demanding and, of course, perceived as demanding out there. I have a great deal of understanding for that. This also means that in some contexts you are dealing with detail management. It is true that it may be demanding, but then the representative underlines the fact that during this great period we have increased the scope of action to the police by 2.6 billion. kr. It also underlines the fact that we have had a historic increase in the number of police annuals during this year and this period. So this description is not a believer. But we are closely following developments in the police, and we will also ensure that the police have good framework conditions in order to deliver on their important mission to society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1506	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1513	I would like to thank the Labour Party for lifting this debate, and that is also reason to thank the representative, Mr Bøhler, especially for a sustained and parallel commitment to my own in this field. Then we see and hear a debate in the room about the device on this work further. There is no doubt – in the extension of what the Council of State says – that this is something that both the Minister of Justice and the government are very concerned about. Then this is linked to the business analysis in the line change, with a claim that it shows that the government is weakening the ability of the police to work against organized crime and recriminalism. It's wrong, it's completely wrong. This government has not only strengthened the police with resources and crews, this government has also strengthened the police in the area the police wanted most when we entered the government offices. And what was that? Yes, there were crews. There were police officers and women, as the police themselves said was the most important thing to solve their community mission. What the business analysis says is that the priority that the government has put in place, which is in line with police priorities, to strengthen the workforce, means that resources must be taken from a location. And the government has been fully open – for all four years – to the consequence that the budgets for the free resources in the police districts are being somewhat reduced. But we've strengthened the police on what the police were most concerned about: more men and women in uniform in the streets, in the prosecution sections, in the prevention work and in the investigation. It strengthens the ability and ability of the police to combat organised crime. It's not, as it turned out in the line change, to weaken the action space. On the contrary, this government has strengthened both the space for action and the capacity to combat organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1522	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1541	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Party the proposals No 8 and 9, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 11 and 12, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No 10, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 13, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Center Party The President noted that proposal No. 3 is drawn. Proposal No. 12 in the course of the debate, turned into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government ensure that any protection of Skarnsundet and Børgin is not implemented without the consent of the municipalities concerned.’; The President will propose that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any discussion. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that maritime protection in the coastal zone and the fjords can only become effective if the municipalities concerned support the protection plans.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1585	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of Froan, Sularevet and Iverback as petroleum-free areas.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1600	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a national maritime protection strategy establishing an ecologically coherent national network of marine protected areas, with the protection provisions resulting from the Nature Diversity Act, during the 2017 harvest session.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the inclusion of marine protected areas throughout Norway’s economic zone in the national marine protection strategy, so that Norway can achieve the target of 10 pst. marine protection by 2020.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1622	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 4–7 by the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to open up petroleum activities, including exploration and seismic shooting, in the particularly valuable areas of the Norwegian Sea.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the areas defined as particularly valuable areas in the Norwegian Sea should be given priority for national protection through the national maritime protection strategy.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide, in the context of the revision of the Barents Sea Management Plan and the beyond Lofoten, a professionally updated demarcation of the entire ice edge zone, including ‘Vesterise’, based on the best available scientific knowledge.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that petroleum activities are not permitted in the ice edge zone in the area covered by the Norwegian Sea Management Plan.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for the establishment of an environmentally up-to-date definition of the ice edge zone, both in the Norwegian Sea and in the Barents Sea, in the context of a revised management plan for the Barents Sea, expected in 2020. No petroleum activity shall be opened in or at these areas.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the maps in the updated management plan to be replaced by maps defining the Vesteris based on the current definition of the ice edge.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1695	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the Committee's position at II. The Workers' Party has announced that it will maintain its support for II. The other parties have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1709	There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the special valuable areas of the Norwegian Sea until the status of the marine protected areas has been clarified through a national marine protection plan for the marine areas. [[SVO]] Pending this, the definition of this area and the scope of activity established in the current Norwegian Sea Management Plan (St.meld. [[2008-2009]] No 37 The Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1726	The Committee shall be consulted on the position to be taken with regard to I. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1740	It shall be heard about the Committee's position on IV. The Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1754	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the position of the Committee on III. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1769	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of V.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1779	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1812	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Aukrust on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a sectoral law for the water and sewerage sector.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1832	The Green Party has announced its support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e1976	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Jenny Klinge, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 4, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a 10-year programme to prevent and combat sexual harassment in school, in line with the recommendations of the Equality Committee’s investigation NOU 2012: 15 Gender Equality Policy.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e2002	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that reported rapes are not held by the police, but that rape, violence in close relations and violence and child abuse, including online assaults, are prioritised by the police.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a binding action plan against rape.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to step up its efforts to change the positions relating to rape and to increase the awareness of judges and co-judges in the courts of rape, in particular ‘festivities and sleep violence’.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e2046	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e2074	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party proposal No 3, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 4, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to set up a new rape committee.’ The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e2106	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment of the appropriateness of more extensive training of laymen in matters of rape.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e2123	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. ‘The government is asking the government to propose to amend the penal code §292 and 300 by removing the term ‘rape for intercourse’ without changing the reality of the offenders. This is to make it clear that rape is a serious crime and has nothing to do with voluntary intercourse.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e2140	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. ‘The government is asking for adequate resources and financial frameworks to ensure the quality of the forensic procedures and medical reports of the beneficiaries of the rape.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e2203	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, from Lise Wiik on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the removal of access to restricted residence for lone minor asylum seekers between 15 and 18 years of age by removing Section 8-8 of the Foreign Regulation.’ The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e2229	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up teams against trafficking in human beings that can detect victims and prevent children from being exposed to trafficking in human beings or recruited to criminal environments from asylum recipients.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the legalisation of the liability of lone minor asylum seekers, the care they require of these children and the requirements for the reception of single minor asylum seekers.’ The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e2298	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on V, VI, VII and VIII. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e2312	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on I, II, III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e2338	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward, from Jan Bøhler on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that professional environments in the police working against organised crime are not weakened, but strengthened, by the reorganization of the new police districts.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the police are able to meet the criminal gangs and organised crime in a good, long-term and concentrated manner.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen local prevention against recriminalism.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that professional secrecy does not hinder good cross-border and multidisciplinary cooperation in order to reach young gang members and prevent more young people from being recruited into criminal gangs.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make sure that the police have specific efforts to address nightlife environments that have footholds in residential areas, near schools or in the vicinity of organised leisure activities.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to better facilitate the use of a residence ban by the police in order to prevent violent incidents and to assess the possibility of imposing a residence ban in specific areas after settlement.’; Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to put in place systematic work on the exit programme for re-members.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better follow-up and provision of possible victims of organised crime, such as victims of trafficking in human beings and forced labour, thereby also facilitating the detection and investigation of more backers and the resolution of more cases.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen Norway’s international efforts against organised crime, in particular through Europol and Baltic Sea cooperation.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present a case to the Stortinget for follow-up to the Report. St. 7 Fight against organised crime, including ‘following the money’.» [[2010-2011]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-14.ana.ud389e2425	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
