ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e36	Honourable co-representatives! On 21 August 2017, former depositor Rikard Olsvik of Aure died, 87 years old. He represented the Labour Party and More and Romesdal for three periods, from 1981 to 1993. During this time he was among others. member of the Agriculture Committee, Secretary of the Defence Committee and member of the Committee on Transport. Olsvik grew up in small corps in the 1930s and 1940s. With his good schooling skills and the growing opportunities that society gave, he was still able to take the teacher's schooling exam in 1954. He worked as a teacher in Tustna and Stangvik, later in Sunndal, before joining as a principal at the newly started nine - year - old school in Rindal in 1965. Then he had already been politically active for a long time. From his first meeting as a local government member in Tustna, until he resigned as head of the control committee in Rindal Sparebank, it is a period of impressive 50 years. The very long range of public and administrative duties, as well as trust in organisations, tells a lot about who Rikard Olsvik was: a man who trusted, tidy and hardworking, with a very wide social involvement and with the will to take responsibility. He was by no means the type who adorned himself with his duties. Olsvik is described on the contrary as an almost small-scale man, earth-near and solid. After his 12 years at Stortinget, he gained further national trust, both as a member of the National Audit Office and as a director of the Supervisory Board of the Stortinge for the secret services. In parallel with this, he re-entered the municipal council in Rindal, where he had previously been rapporteur, now as a private member. He was also an engaged head of the Senior Council in More and Romesdal for twelve years. In his local Workers' Party team in Rindal, the poaching representative who never forgot where he came from and heard from. He met regularly at the local party meetings to tell the last new 'from the book of Oslo', which he used to say. Local issues were also closely followed up, as when he contributed to the added oversight of the newly created Trollheimen landscape protection area to Rindal. As for so many others in his generation, not least in the party he always belonged to, the story of Rikard Olsvik's life was at the same time a story about Norway in the 1900s. The young user's son, from the extreme of severe weather in Northern Ireland, was given opportunities for education and personal growth, which he took – and then to give back in rich monn. We bring peace to Rikard Olsvik's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e62	Three permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Marianne Marthinsen on days 22 and 23 November to attend the EFTA Ministerial Meeting in Geneva from the representative of Mr Eirik Sivertsen on leave from 21 November to 23 November, and from the representative of Mr Willfred Nordlund on leave on 22 and 23 November – both to participate in the Parliamentary Conference of the Northern Dimension in Brussels and to meet the Arctic Parliamentary Committee in Helsinki On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For the county of Nordland: Kjell Idar Juvik 22-23. ==References====External links== November For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai: 22-23. November
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e108	The representative, Mr Aasrud, asked for the floor to withdraw a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e113	On behalf of the proposers, I draw the representative proposal 52 S. It concerns the introduction of vulnerability criteria when assessing temporary residence in asylum cases for lone minors because the proposal has already been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e118	The notification of the withdrawal of that proposal by the representative, Mr Aasrud, is taken into account. The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e125	On behalf of the representative, Mr V. Bollestad, and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to take the initiative to ensure that children do not have to live in a nursing home in violation of the best interests of the child and the wishes of the parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e131	The representative, Mr Q. Raja, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e136	On behalf of the whole of the Left's breeding group, consisting of Trine Skei Grande, Carl-Erik Grimstad, André N. Skjelstad, Terje Breivik, Jon Gunnes, Ketil Kjenseth, meeting alternates Grunde Almeland and myself, I am delighted to promote representative proposals for measures to protect the privacy of children, including the ban on camera monitoring during school education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e141	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 3, Unit, to be dealt with before case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after case No. 1 has been completed. No objections have been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President therefore requests that the representatives remain in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e165	No one has asked for the floor. Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e201	Mr Andersen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e206	I record that a proposal that was drawn up now is being dealt with immediately. It is all right for us, but yesterday we promoted a proposal that goes along with this, which the Committee has wanted to refer to, so that we can get on with the committee reading. Then my question is why you don't have the power to deal with it today, which was referred yesterday, while you manage to deal with a proposal that was delivered now, instantly, immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e211	That is because that proposal was sent to the Committee to give its opinion. What we're proposing here is that the proposal be sent to the committee, and it's the committee that decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e216	It's possible I'm expressing myself unclear. Yesterday I promoted a proposal by a representative on the same subject and, of course, the Committee would like to be dealt with with with a number of other proposals on the same subject. This proposal has been drawn, and that is all right, but my question is why our proposal is not in the Minutes, so that the Committee could start that discussion, because there is a little urgency in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e221	That is what we are going to do on the first occasion, so that the Committee can get to work. Are there any other comments on the matter? – Then it doesn’t seem, and that’s the record number. 138 adopted by the Municipal and Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e250	Children are among those who are hardest hit by the rowingya crisis. Near 60 pst. by the rowingyas who have fled to Bangladesh in the last months, are under 18 years of age. While we're standing here, 340,000 children are in urgent need of emergency help. Many of the children who have fled are lonely, without parents, living alone in crowded refugee camps. Sexualized violence is a major problem, and several of the victims are children. Save Children is one of the actors in Norway who work to provide the rowingya children with special protection against abuse and violence and to give them the right to be children. But this tragedy does not just hit children. This autumn, one of the world's greatest humanitarian disasters occurred at the border between Myanmar and Bangladesh. Human Rights Watch has shown that about 300 villages have been burned down. It is estimated that around 600 000 Muslim rowingyaers have been displaced from the state of Rakhine in Myanmar by violent persecution. Murder, rape and fire are central to the stories that are told to the aid workers. Børge Burnde stated two months ago that the situation ‘begins to remember ethnic cleansing’, while the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein, has called the event a school example of ethnic cleansing. The UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, has also said that this is ethnic cleansing. It's important to use the right terms to describe what's happened and what's happening. My first question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs is: Does she agree with Minister of Foreign Affairs Burnde, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and the UN Secretary-General that there is ethnic cleansing the world has witnessed in Myanmar lately? The needs of shelter, health care and food in overpopulated refugee camps are enormous and have exceeded the capacity of the UN and other international organisations. The government has contributed $80 million. humanitarian assistance to refugees. However, the immediate needs are greater and it is necessary to recognise that the humanitarian crisis is the highest political one. The attack of the harvest is intertwined in the series of systematic attacks against the rockingya population. Over the past few decades, several UN institutions have documented human rights violations by security forces as well as by the civilian population. This includes killing, rape, forced labour, random taxing and property destruction. The Rohingya are today referred to as the most persecuted people in the world. At the heart of their history of suffering is the unresolved question of citizenship. Because ‘rohingya’ is not even recognised as having its own ethnicity and group of authorities in Myanmar, the rohingyas are not entitled to citizenship at birth. They thus miss key rights such as access to education, healthcare, work, marriage and freedom of movement. Myanmar authorities and local Buddhists claim that the rowingyas are illegal immigrants from Bangladesh. They say that the ethnicity of ‘rohingya’ is designed to safeguard political rights and autonomy. Human Rights Organisations such as Human Rights Watch and Forty Rights can prove that the military regime has pursued a misguided policy equivalent to crimes against humanity. A systematic discrimination based on ethnic or religious identity is described as persecution under international law. In addition, the military and civil groups in Rakhine are responsible for the forced displacement and expulsion of the rowingyas from their territory – a de facto ethnic cleansing. Several historical events show how the military forces force the rowingyas, e.g.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t Following the violent epidemics between Buddhists and Muslims in 2012, the authorities tried to move large groups of rowingyas northwards to segregate the population. The security situation was used as a forced-movement deposit. The lack of official building permits led to more than 3,200 mosques, shops and private homes in northern Rakhine being demolished in 2016. Rohingyaene did not receive compensation, and thousands had to move. Following military offensives in 2016 and by 2017 at the latest, refugees have had trouble returning because they lack identity papers. In 2016, authorities decided to do the local population census while many were on the run. Many thus did not have the opportunity to register their household, which is essential for rowingyaer without political status. It is therefore necessary to see today's crisis in the light of history and political conflict. We have to think about solutions for today's refugees, while thinking about long-term solutions. Without addressing underlying causes of conflict, humanitarian disasters are likely to continue to occur periodically and potentially increase in intensity. The future of the refugees is highly uncertain. Bangladesh shows little willingness to grant residence permits, while the situation in Rakhine makes it difficult for the rowingyas to return. It is worrying that Burmese authorities send unclear signals when it comes to refugees’ right to return. According to international law, the right to return to their country of origin has been waived. We have to make sure that the verification process that is underway extends far in order to include all residents of Myanmar, not only those with valid residence permits or citizenship. The willingness of the Burmese authorities to accept the refugees will show whether they take the rowingya seriously or whether this is a new case of forced displacement. Several parties in Rakhine are responsible for human rights violations, including militant Muslims. It is important to put the attackers in charge – in order to ensure legal certainty and to prevent duplication. In the wake of the attacks in August, there have been many rumors. The conflict is politicised, and many actors may be interested in promoting their own interests. It is therefore important to support an objective investigation under the auspices of the United Nations. A Fact-Finding Mission has a mandate from the UN Human Rights Council to investigate assumptions about torture, sexual violence, killings and disappearances, but without access to Rakhine it becomes almost impossible to identify facts. The investigation commission has so far visited refugee camps in Bangladesh, but it is essential that Burmese authorities allow access to Rakhine. It is important for Norway to support this work and to follow up the outcome of the report in order to prosecute the offenders. I am responding to the Minister for Foreign Affairs' response to this. I have been to Myanmar as part of an international delegation to promote religious freedom. What we saw and learned there was alarming. This, however, was before the brutal offensive began. But even before the offensive, people were killed. One of them I met there, U Ko Ni, a human rights lawyer and a law attorney, was shot and killed. He was a Muslim. In our own international network working for religious freedom, Shwe Maung is. He was – as we are sitting here in the Chamber – elected national parliamentarian in Myanmar before being stripped for his citizenship and refused to stand for election. He now lives in exile. Norway can do more, and Norway should do more. We must demand humanitarian access to northern and central areas of Rakhine in Myanmar. Preventing humanitarian access is contrary to international humanitarian law. We have to demand that the 450 000 rowingya children who are in Bangladesh get immediate protection and good care solutions. Several of the children have lost their parents and are alone in refugee camps in Bangladesh. These are vulnerable to violence, assault and trafficking in human beings. We have to demand that the rohingya children who have fled to Bangladesh be given the opportunity to go to school. We must demand clarification about the citizenship of the Rohingya refugees. We need to assess the need for the UN Security Council to follow up the Presidential Opinion on the rowingyas of 6 November with a Security Resolution aimed at protecting the Rohingya population. As mentioned above, the rohingyas have experienced decades of discrimination and persecution. So far, the military has tried to solve political problems with military instruments. This is one of the reasons why the United States and the EU are now considering reintroducing certain sanctions. They acknowledge that the country's civil leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, is in low power towards the military, and therefore consider it appropriate to increase the pressure on the military. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think, is the sanctioning regime a good lead? In order to achieve results, there may seem to be no choice and better choice than to support Suu Kyi in finding policy solutions. But there must be no blind support, for it has been disappointing that Suu Kyi consistently undermines the military's assault and generally shows little understanding of the minority situation. At the same time, she has shown no willingness to address underlying causes of the conflict in Rakhine. They even refuse to use the term "rohingya" in themselves. Last year she ordered a report from the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State, led by Kofi Annan, to analyse the problems in Rakhine objectively and make recommendations. It will be primarily up to the authorities in Myanmar to follow up the report. At the same time, this may also be an opportunity for the international community and Norway to play a role. By providing financial support, advice and political incentives, changes can be encouraged on the ground, rather than limiting the diplomatic toolbox to indexing policy. It is therefore necessary that Norway assists in the immediate crisis, while looking for long-term solutions for the rohingyas. The questions are many, some of them I have asked, but another: How will the government contribute to policy solutions for the underlying causes of the conflict? Finally, does the Minister for Foreign Affairs have concrete plans on how Norway can support the recommendations contained in the report of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e316	There were many different questions, and I will try to answer them all, also through an overall presentation of what Norway is doing. The situation in Rakhine is very worrying for the rowingya minority in Myanmar. The burning down of villages, violence and sexual abuse and displacement are reported. According to the UN's recent figures, over 620,000 people have fled across the border with Bangladesh only since 25 August. It is estimated that approx. 800,000 rohingyaer is in Bangladesh. The UN Secretary-General calls it the world’s fastest growing refugee crisis, a humanitarian and human nightmare. Humanitarian organisations do not have access to North Rhine-Westphalia. It is therefore difficult to obtain humanitarian aid and information about what is actually happening. Norway has repeatedly addressed the situation of the Rohingya Islands with the authorities of Myanmar. We also work actively in the UN and other multilateral forums and through our embassy in Yangon. Our main message is as follows: Civil and military authorities must stop the acts of violence and protect the population. There must be full access for humanitarian actors. Administrations must provide voluntary, safe and dignified returns. The refugees must return. In two days I'm going to Myanmar for the foreign minister's meeting in ASEM. Among other things, I would like to see you there. discuss the situation with Asian and European colleagues. I will also repeat our clear main message in my conversation with Aung San Suu Kyi. I will also have meetings with the UN's local representative, Knut Østby, with Red Barna, with the International Red Cross Committee and with local organisations working to improve relations between ethnic groups in the country. Former Foreign Minister Brende brought up the rowingya case with Aung San Suu Kyi during his visit to Myanmar in July this year. The same subject was raised in Brende's conversation with the next commander-in-chief. In September, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs called Myanmar's ambassador to Norway to a meeting where we expressed our strong concern. Norway encourages Myanmar to allow an external actor to investigate what has happened to the United Nations. Norway is actively involved in the annual negotiations of the UN Human Rights Council on the human rights situation in Myanmar. This year, too, we were co-rapporteurs for a resolution in this area. In this context, we made a clear recommendation to the authorities that they should grant access to a study commission. Norway is also actively involved in the work on human rights through the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly in New York. We are this week proposing a resolution on the human rights situation in Myanmar. It has been submitted by the Organization for Islamic Cooperation and voting is taking place later today. It is important to work to ensure that the serious charges of robbery against the rowingya are investigated by external actors such as the UN. The humanitarian needs resulting from the crisis are high. It is assumed that more than 800,000 Rohingya refugees live in Bangladesh. The capacity of the receiver is detonated. Poor infrastructure makes humanitarian access difficult. Many of the refugees are severely traumatized. A significant number of people are stuck in no man’s country between Bangladesh and Myanmar. Norway shall contribute humanitarian aid. At the conference for the rowingya crisis in Geneva on 23 October, we announced a new contribution of 25 million. kr. Following the escalation of the situation in Rakhine on 25 August, Norway has added up to 80 million. Humanitarian aid allocated to Myanmar and Bangladesh. Among other things, we have contributed to the establishment of a field hospital in Bangladesh through the Norwegian Red Cross. In addition, we support the work of Refugee Aid, the work of the Church of Relief and the UN. On the Norwegian side, we are constantly assessing how we can best help in the humanitarian field. In order to succeed in building a stable and strong democracy and in addressing the underlying causes of the conflict, as the interpellant says, Myanmar must fulfil international obligations in the field of human rights and humanitarian matters. The management of the crisis is complicated by the fact that Myanmar is in a difficult transition to democracy. This includes a peace process to resolve conflicts with the country's many armed ethnic groups. Although the majority of parliamentary representatives are democratically elected, and the civil government is based on this majority, under the Constitution, the military still has considerable authority. The military exerts considerable control over the affected areas of Rakhine, through both its own forces and control of police and bureaucratic structures. It is therefore essential that the military authorities of the country take responsibility for what has happened and what is happening. At the same time, Aung San Suu Kyi, as the country's civil leader, also has a responsibility to help resolve the crisis. The Rohingyaes who have fled to Bangladesh must return safely. Myanmar must ensure that the return takes place on a voluntary basis and to the places of residence of the refugees. In discussions with both the Myanmar and Bangladesh authorities, we have encouraged continued contact between these two countries and with the international community with a view to establishing repatriation arrangements. Aung San Suu Kyi has stated that Myanmar is ready for this, based on an agreement with Bangladesh from 1992. It's positive, but it has to be implemented in practice. The state of Rakhine has for decades been marked by tension between Buddhists and the Muslim peoples of rowingya. There is a great need for trust building and for measures to put an end to the long-term discrimination against the Rohingyas. At the same time, the majority of the population of this poor state live under difficult conditions, and there is little doubt that much of the situation is also reflected in what we now see. The Rakhine Commission, led by Kofi Annan, has made a number of recommendations on actions that have also been endorsed by the Myanmar authorities. Norway has supported the work of the Commission and Norway has offered to support the practical implementation of the recommendations. It is therefore a positive step that the authorities have established a national Commission for the implementation of the recommendations in the report. Interpellant was also concerned with questions related to the possibility of going to school. Norway has contributed significantly to the fund called Education Cannot Wait, which is intended for situations like this, where children must be able to go to school and learn in crisis and war. There we contribute to the education of the refugees who are in Bangladesh. The representative also asked a question about penalties. For the time being, what we've seen is that the United States has assessed sanctions for individuals. We have seen that the United Kingdom has concluded its military cooperation or put it on ice, and both the United States, the EU and Norway are already committed to an arms embargo against Myanmar. However, there is a great need to continue international engagement because we need to support the democratisation process. I don't think it's a wise idea now to cut all the tapes, precisely because we have both long-term and contacts that enable us to contribute in a positive direction. On the other hand, Norway will, of course, follow what other countries do. If restrictive measures are found to be something all countries or several countries want to introduce, either against individuals or sectors, Norway will of course consider. However, let me stress that it is incredibly important that any adjustments to either assistance, contact or possible sanctioning regime do not further marginalise the civil part of the government apparatus in Myanmar. There is an unusually demanding situation now. Everyone has a significant responsibility, but marginalising the civil and elected part further will not be a contribution to this. In conclusion, former Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende quoted the UN High Commissioner as saying that this resembles ethnic cleansing. Clearly, violence has affected one ethnic group in particular. It appears to be targeted at one ethnic group, and it is essential that both the investigation commissions and the United Nations apparatus are now able to clarify exactly what has happened and what continues to happen. It will also be important for the future responses of Norway and other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e362	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good and thorough answer, and I also hear that she is seriously concerned about the situation and takes this very seriously. It is good to see that Norway intends to be forward looking for a political solution to the humanitarian disaster that we see happening. Tomorrow, Redd Barna, Save the Children International, publishes a report in which rowingya-children tell about the atrocities they've experienced and seen lately. I know there are strong descriptions in the report, which is called ‘Horrors I Will Never Forgot’. With this as a hindrance, we must not forget that Aung San Suu Kyi has shown little willingness to settle with the military. Yes, she is the civil, elected leader, but she has shown little willingness to settle with the military. For a long time she was silent about the military offensive in Rakhine, and she has done little to stop the acts of violence. It is partly a reflection of the power relations between the military and the civil government, partly a product also of the increasing islamophobia of the population. In recent years, the Buddhist-nationalist movement has gained ever stronger footholds in Myanmar. The ideology is centered around a Myanmar for Buddhists, while spreading anti-Muslim attitudes through hate rhetoric. The fear is that Muslims will take over the population through large children's coals and by taking Buddhist wives. The impact of this ideology on grassroots is worrying. Violence against Muslims is legitimized, and they are denied access to schools and mosques. Some Buddhists have set up signs forbidding Muslims to settle in their villages. It is alarming that political and religious elites in Myanmar do little to distance themselves from a racist ideology. In 2015, the nationalist movement became known as Ma-Ba-Tha through a legislative proposal in Parliament that went hard on religious minorities and women. The aim was to prevent the Islamisation of society by limiting the number of childbirth and conversion to other religions. By maintaining the Ma-Ba-Thea legislative package, the violation of freedom of belief and reproductive rights is legitimized, to mention something. Still Myanmar has a long way to go when it's going to create a safe and inclusive society. If the rowingyas are to have a real chance of a worthy life in Myanmar, they must be accepted by society. Religious nationalism will be a major obstacle to the process of democratisation as long as minorities are excluded from real political and economic power. It is very uplifting, good and forward-looking that the Foreign Minister is going to Myanmar. I hope she will address these questions and more. And in the extension of this, what action will the government take to ensure that refugees are returned and that the offenders are held responsible? And will the Foreign Minister himself give priority to travelling to both the Rakhine State and the border area to which 620,000 Rohingyaers have fled? Will she personally engage in this region and this humanitarian disaster?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e381	It is important that the interpellant puts this matter on the agenda. To answer the last question first, I'm going to engage in this. We have already done so for a long time by the Norwegian authorities. It is important because it is a situation that unfortunately has developed into worse, and especially since the end of August. It is also essential for the representative to be held accountable. Those who have committed unacceptable criminal acts must also be held responsible for them. It's a very basic principle, and that of course also applies here. It's important to remember that this is a region and an area that is basically one of Myanmar's poorest provinces. For this reason, Norway has also been involved over time in several projects aimed at reducing the tensions between the rohingya population and the Buddhist majority population, the rachins. There's a huge need, and it's a big dilemma that many poor rachinians, that is, the majority of the population, experience that for many years, rowingyans have received more attention and more help than themselves. It is also one of the reasons why it is important for Norway to be involved in long-term aid and development projects, which can both help consolidate a democratisation process, contribute to peace and reconciliation and economic development that reduce poverty in many of these areas and provinces. There are several of the topics we have now been through, which will be on the agenda of the upcoming ASEM meeting. It is important for Norway to discuss this matter both with Asian countries and with other European countries. I was in Brussels on Monday and raised this matter with my colleague Federica Mogherini in particular, and it is important that we also use the occasion at the forthcoming meeting both for meetings with the Myanmar authorities, and to discuss with aid organisations and others. The report that comes from the Red Children tomorrow, after all, will be shocking reading, but at the same time it's important that it comes out, because this is a way to get out information, right in a situation where access to go in yourself and retrieve information is marginal. I repeat what is going to be our main message: stop the violence, secure humanitarian access and help the refugees get a safe and dignified return. In all of this, it is also essential that we contribute to a situation that can solve this more long-term. Unfortunately, just now little indicates, but this is what Norway is going to do a lot of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e396	I also want to start by saying that I think it is very nice that the interpellant puts Myanmar and the Rohingya people's situation on the agenda. It's alarming. In today's news picture, I saw that Minister of Foreign Affairs Tillerson is now in charge of sanctions. I find it reassuring that our Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs will actually follow the work that is going on, and the signals coming internationally. It is absolutely necessary that Norway also work on a broad front – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says – in terms of international work, both at home, in meetings with ASEAN countries and in contact with our European partners. The reports of serious attacks on the civilian population by the Myanmar security forces following an attack by a rowingya militia group on 25 August 2017 have been very alarming. More than 600,000 people, mainly from the rowingya minority, have fled across the border to Bangladesh since the end of August of this year, according to the UN surveys. In a few months, a big people are on the run. From the Right we are very concerned about the development of Rakhine and the situation in which the rowingya minority is, both in Myanmar and now to a large extent on the run. There is an unacceptable situation in Rakhine, and the rowingya have been subjected to extensive discrimination and abuse for a long time. As I said, there are many people when 600 000 people flee to Bangladesh in a short time. From the Norwegian side, we have asked the government and the security forces to protect the civilian population, give humanitarian actors full access and ensure that refugees can return quickly. Norway has contributed significant funds. However, stopping violence, providing humanitarian assistance and ensuring that people can return in flight also requires attention to be paid to the underlying reasons for the need to flee, and why there is this type of conflict. When, from the Norwegian side, we aim to protect the civilian population and just ensure that humanitarian actors have access and ensure that the people can get help in flight, it is a job that I record the Minister for Foreign Affairs will continue to follow up, based on the objectives and signals that the Storting has given. We have contributed over 80 million from Norway. kr in emergency aid in Myanmar and Bangladesh, and a large proportion of this has gone directly to the humanitarian work and the humanitarian needs of the Rohingyas, who have fled just beyond the border with Bangladesh. The Norwegian funds have, among other things, helped to establish what we now see of a field hospital in Bangladesh, to which the Norwegian Red Cross contributes. We have also supported the work of Refugee Aid and the UN. I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that further consideration will be given to how we can contribute humanitarianly from the situation that has now arisen. I think it is very good that we so clearly support the report of Kofi Annan and the Rakhine Commission, and that we are also prepared to implement the recommendations that the report has. It is very vital that the country's military leaders take responsibility for the situation that has arisen. It is the military present and in control of the areas concerned. But solving the underlying causes I think most of us understand is demanding. It requires more than just contact with the national authorities. It requires international cooperation in different areas, both in terms of the level of political authority, and not least cooperation with humanitarian actors and their own authorities. I look forward to the Minister of Foreign Affairs reporting back from the visit she and the government will have to go to Myanmar in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e411	Thank you very much, Representative Abid Q. Raja, for taking this up. It's a very important discussion, and it promises a perspective that really goes far beyond the rohingya and Myanmar situation itself. There are 65 million refugees in the world, and most of these refugees to poor neighboring countries. It is a country like Uganda, Pakistan, Iran and Bangladesh that is home to most of the refugees. Although the Bangladeshi authorities also have a somewhat ambivalent relationship with the rowingyane, many Bangladeshi stories come that the locals share the tiny little they have, including the refugees from Myanmar. Abid Q. Raja also puts our own refugee debate in perspective, because it is the poorest countries that accept most. A little heartache before I go on with this matter: See from Bangladesh, our own refugee debate must appear quite strange. There will be a number of refugees to Bangladesh every hour approximately equal to the number of refugees coming to Norway in one year. Think about it a little bit. Despite that, a few days ago we had a debate here in this Chamber about how we can protect a small group of asylum seekers and avoid them being forced to return, with a risk of abuse. This perspective is important to bring with it. I ask representatives of the most critical in Norwegian asylum policy to listen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who have a very good understanding of the world's refugee situation. I want to give you credit, because I think the U.D. in this case is doing a good job. The instruments available to the U.D. are used. It is both to put political pressure on the authorities in Myanmar and to contribute to what Norway can do with humanitarian resources. In addition, there is good and systematic cooperation with international actors to put this on the agenda. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is aware that I have criticized the Norwegian U.D. many times before. In this case, I think the U.D. is far on the way. I still want to ask some questions. This is also about a situation where – as Abid Q. Raja says – this group is stateless. For various reasons, they are denied citizenship of Myanmar. This also means that they have limited rights under the Refugee Convention. When they flee across a border and do not have a passport, they do not receive immediate recognition as refugees. This also means that, for example: the return and return protection rights are not guaranteed by the Refugee Convention. So I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to explain how she will solve this also to the authorities in Bangladesh. Does the Norwegian authorities believe that the border with Bangladesh should be open to the refugees from this area? What kind of dialogue do Norwegian authorities have with the Bangladeshi authorities to ensure that, although they are not formally forced to do so through the Convention on Refugees, these refugees take care of as if they were formally refugees? I also want to deal with this with an independent investigation. Demands from many teams have now been made to carry out an independent investigation of what has taken place there, which has been well described in the last few minutes. Then the question is what to use such an investigation for. The Norwegian authorities will take the initiative to bring the findings that may arise in an independent investigation into an international legal order, for example: an international criminal court? Will it be a relevant measure and will the Norwegian authorities take an initiative in that direction? The latter is subject to sanctions: Norwegian businesses are also in Myanmar, and without their own desire, they can be involved in trade which both provides financial support to the authorities of Myanmar through various business transactions and which can also help to legitimize the repression that the authorities of Myanmar are responsible for. What advice does the Minister for Foreign Affairs give to the Norwegian business operators who are in Myanmar regarding this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e432	The President will recall that representatives and state councils in the Chamber are addressed via the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e437	The situation we're witnessing in Myanmar, shocking. We see brutal killing and assault in the Rakhine state. More than 600 000 Rohingya Muslims have fled to Bangladesh in parallel with over 100 000 internally displaced persons in the Shan and Kachin State, where the army has ongoing military operations. This shows a situation that can hardly be compared to anyone else in our time. When fundamental human rights are violated, we cannot stand passively on the sideline and accept that it happens. Norway has played an active role in recent years through business cooperation and capacity building of bureaucracy. High emphasis has been placed on access for Norwegian business. At the same time, Norway's close link to the previous pro-military government has weakened Norway's reputation with both NLD and several of the minorities. Norway has a long and proud history in Myanmar with courageous and principled political commitment to peace, democracy and human rights. Through this long-standing cooperation, Norway has a strong political competence in Myanmar, which we urgently need to succeed in supporting the Burmese work for more democracy and less military control. Political problems need political solutions. This is also true in the Rohingya issue, which cannot be resolved by economic development and poverty reduction alone. This is where political and legal changes need to be made. Norway has supported the Rakhine Commission, which pointed to important and decisive reforms. This political work must be followed up. In particular, the reform of the much-mentioned 1982 Citizenship Act, which actively excludes large groups of people, is one of the Commission's courageous recommendations. Military continues to be a significant factor of power in Myanmar. The reforms, which were seen by many as a military exit strategy, have proved to be more of a survival strategy. It is important to note that the Burmese army is not subject to democratic control. This is at the same time they have significant political influence. They have guaranteed a veto right to amend the Constitution by indirectly checking every four seats in Parliament. Three powerful ministries are reserved, and they are thus seen as part of any government. Not least controls the administrative system of the country, has a majority in the National Security Council and can take over power without a coup d'état. This points to the importance of international society contributing to the strengthening of civil and political levels. How to reduce military positions in politics and conflict should be a central element of the Norwegian external exposure. This brings me to a central point: Norway is currently lacking a specific country strategy for its commitment to Myanmar. It is positive that a country analysis of its own has recently been carried out. This is a good starting point for designing a strategy. A strategy is not only important to systematise the exposure, but a sufficiently transparent strategy allows the Storting to measure the results against the targets set. A strategy will also help establish Norway as a policy actor, as the situation now requires. Norway remains strong in Myanmar. Many years of support for courageous defenders of democracy and human rights and support for the Democratic Voice of Burma media house, some of which are still referred to as ‘Oslo Radio’, are examples of Norway’s strong reputation for democratisation and peace, which are the two main areas for ensuring change in the country. It is therefore with concern that the U.D. this year dramatically reduces support for that Democratic Voice of Burma. They are one of our leading success stories in Myanmar, which for 20 years sent unsensored news from Norway and which, with its 13 to 14 million viewers today, reaches out with critical reporting of conflict in the country. They are in a difficult position, with a weak media law and a media landscape dominated by pro-military media channels and a state channel that is still a propaganda apparatus for government and military. Several journalists have been imprisoned. A cut now, in the midst of a fragile transition to democracy, is both surprising and incomprehensible. It is time for a more balanced approach to the situation in Myanmar. Norway needs a strategy for engagement with a better balance between policy, business and assistance. Responsible investment will continue to be necessary, but to achieve peace and real democratisation, there is a need now to focus on political change processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e458	Thanks to the interpellant for addressing this important matter. What's happening in Myanmar now is beyond our comprehension. According to the reports, we have heard that over 600 000 rowingyaer have fled across the border from Myanmar to Bangladesh only recently. This is referred to as the largest mass migration from one country to another since 1994. We remember all the cruel scenes from Rwanda that time. Bangladesh reports a precarious situation in refugee camps. Sanitary conditions are so poor that there is an imminent risk of epidemics such as cholera and other diseases. There is a lack of classroom and education for the children, and growing-up conditions are poor. So it's not without reason that the rohingyas are referred to as the world's most persecuted minority. The persecution of this group of people every day can cause most of us to puke. Burmese soldiers are responsible for the burning down of villages, incarceration of rowingyas in buildings on which the soldiers then turn, arbitrary shooting against crowds, rapes, public executions and torture against the civilian population in the Rakhine state of Myanmar. Based on the reports we get from Myanmar and the United Nations, there no longer seems to be much doubt that Myanmar's military could be guilty of ethnic cleansing. This says something about the seriousness of the matter. We can't pretend to be surprised at the massive use of power the Burmese army is now using against the rowingya. It is a failure statement for the international community that the brutal pursuit of the rowingya has not been stopped. Long before we heard of the boat refugees drowned in the Mediterranean, we could hear messages about boat refugees drowned in the Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea on the run from the attacks in Myanmar. This has been reported for a long time by both the Church's Emergency Aid and the UN. Now the Storting must decide what Norway and the international community can do in the future. Here we from the Christian People's Party will point to three things in particular. Firstly, we need to step up the emergency aid efforts of the rowingyas who are now living in refugee camps along the border of Bangladesh. A few weeks ago, the Norwegian Government said they wanted to contribute 25 million. kr for this work. The U.N. recently asked for $3.5 billion. aid to assist refugees. For the time being, the UN lacks more than 600 million. NOK at this amount. Secondly, the political pressure against the government and the military in Myanmar must be considerably increased. Norway should be among the leading countries. Norway is involved in billions of investments in Myanmar, including: through Telenor. We can influence the country's powers of government along with other EU countries and US powers of government. The most important thing now is to ensure the implementation of the recommendations of the Advisory Commission of the Land of Rakhine, led by Kofi Annan, as promised by the Government of Myanmar. This should now be done immediately. The same applies to humanitarian access and humanitarian actors, so that assistance can be obtained. Thirdly, Norway should contribute to an international pressure against Myanmar for the return of the refugees to their country of origin. No other solutions are sustainable in the long term if the military in Myanmar are not to succeed in their ethnic cleansing. In order for the rowingyas to move back, violence must be stopped immediately. There are no simple solutions for the rowingya in Myanmar, but Norway can and should take an international lead in helping this persecuted minority. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs is reporting, about going to Myanmar now and working on different platforms to help this people for a worthwhile life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e483	I would also like to thank the interpellant for the important issue raised here, and that it focuses on the conflict that we unfortunately see going on. Historically, Norway has taken up the fight for religious and ethnic minorities. In a world of increased political and religious nationalism, we see that it affects the minorities most. The situation of the Rohingyas is shocking and frightening like the terrible scenes you saw in Rwanda and the Balkans. It's about ethnic cleansing, says many international observers. The situation is terrible for the people concerned, especially for children and women, but it also creates unrest among countries and contributes to increased conflict. If the world community ignores what's going on there, the rowingya will also be the subject of radicalisation. We already see it -- Islamic radical groups, terrorist groups, looking for the rowingyas to recruit them. You can see that's going on. I am pleased with many of the things the Foreign Minister mentions that Norway does, but I think Norway can do more. Norway shall be a lighthouse of international policy. We've always used to be a country that takes the driver's seat, and don't necessarily look around us at what the others do before we decide. For decades we had an exceptionally good relationship with the party of Aung San Suu Kyi. The Democratic Voice of Burma radio station was based in Oslo and sponsored by Norway. We have contributed in many ways, through both diplomacy and financial resources. This, together with high credibility regionally, makes us in a good position to take a lead in conflict management and in a future dialogue on peace. We believe that Norway should offer to take a mediator role in the conflict. The predecessor of the Minister of Foreign Affairs was challenged at the same time from the Workers' Party. Then he wouldn't answer. Now we've got a new foreign minister, a fresh breath, and then I think it's okay to ask if the new foreign minister believes Norway should offer to take a brokerage role in the conflict we're looking for, hopefully, to end the conflict. For Norway, there is great credibility, Norway has many contacts, and Norway must also be courageous enough to take this step and invite the parties to conflict resolution and hopefully peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e497	I would like to thank everyone who has taken part in enriching the debate. We know that for decades Myanmar has been isolated from the Western world, and since the late 1990s, this severe sanctions have meant pushing the military regime to change policies. There are few who would say that this tactic succeeded. It was rather seen that the generals tightened their grip, and it became harder for the civilians the more pressure they experienced from the outside. At the same time, we cannot continue to send weapons to a regime that will use them for its own civilian population. The Muslim rohingya population suffers particularly from religious nationalism, but discrimination based on religion and ethnicity is a widespread phenomenon for several minorities in Myanmar. They have experienced decades of discrimination under the regime that tried to build the nation on a Burmese Buddhist identity. Should be looking up, religious freedom under pressure is very many places in the world. Through the work of religious freedom, I meet politicians from other countries, and I address issues such as: Christians or Ahmadiyyas in Pakistan, Bahais in Iran, Jews and Copts in the Middle East, etc. Some of them answer the questions by saying, what does the West do about the situation in Myanmar? It's not that they shouldn't clean up their own lockers, but they often take up the other sheep around, and what we in the West do to clean up Myanmar. That's why it's important that we're very forward-looking. The world is going along, and history is going along with what the world can do to solve the situation in Myanmar. Thus, it is particularly disappointing for Norway, although the Nobel Committee is the independent committee that awards the Nobel Peace Prize, but Suu Kyi has received such a prize, and it is difficult to see that she meets those expectations. Especially disappointing is the fact that a peace winner will not even use the ethnic term rowingya. They are called by politicians "Muslims in Rakhine State" or bangladshere. It's very alienating. Money can contribute a lot in that region. We know that money can at least help to relieve much of the human pain that we now see in the refugee camps. We in the Left believe that a significant proportion of aid going to Myanmar can help to help rowingyaer in the border area. Norway has now contributed 80 million. kr. I believe the amount can be increased. A final question to the Council of State is whether this is the case. What does the Norwegian Council of State think can contribute further to remedy the human suffering we are now seeing in the border area?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e512	I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a good debate. I experience a broad support from the parties to the line of government and the main demands we make, and it's an important message to bring in the meetings I'm going to have in Myanmar in a few days' time. There were many different questions, and I'll do my best – in three minutes – to answer as much as possible. On the issue of dialogue with the Bangladesh authorities, Norway, together with other countries, has a close dialogue and communicates quite clearly the expectations of facilitating an effective humanitarian response. This is a message that we also present in the organisations that are now most engaged in the area. It is both the international organisation for migration, the IOM, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the UNHCR, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Response, OCHA, and other humanitarian actors. We have also been very clear that we want the UNHCR to have a clearer role in line with its mandate, precisely because this can be a better way to coordinate the response, which makes help more clear. With regard to the issue of the international criminal system, the first and most important thing now is to get an independent investigation commission in place and to have investigations carried out on what has happened, and also on what may happen in the future. We maintain support for the Democratic Voice of Burma. I'm also going to meet them when I'm in Myanmar, and we also have intentions to continue that cooperation. In the case of business actors from the Norwegian side, we communicate clear expectations of their social responsibility. As far as Myanmar is concerned, we have also helped to establish a centre there for corporate social responsibility, and it is our embassy in Yangon that coordinates the work. What more can you do? As I was also a little bit into it, this is a question that we have for our ongoing assessment. It depends on how the situation develops. We are going to maintain both the political pressure and the long-term assistance, of which peace and reconciliation are one of the pillars of what we are doing. Facilitating dialogue between ethnic groups and religious groups is one of the most important things we can do. We're also going to maintain, or possibly increase, the humanitarian aid now. So to the last point, and the question from Mani Hussaini, whether we want to take a leading role, or a brokering role, in this: As I was involved, we have supported the work of the Annan Commission. We have also offered the Myanmar authorities support for the practical implementation of the recommendations. We believe that this can be a very important contribution to the process. In normal circumstances — and here too — Norway assesses its contributions based on government inquiries. And as I said, peace and reconciliation work is one of the pillars of the work we are doing in Myanmar today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-16.ana.ud183e527	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Today's map is also processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
