ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e81	The representative Rasmus Hansson, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The temporarily exempted alternate of the Aust-Agder County, Lene Langemyr, and the called alternate of the Nordland County, Tone-Helen Toften, now take their seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e115	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e124	A unanimous vote by the Committee supports the proposal by the representatives of Kjeseth, Grande, Skjelstad, Elvesuen and Farstad on Anno 2020 – A force for the intangible cultural heritage. There is a strong consensus that the intangible cultural heritage is important and that it may be a somewhat forgotten theme on the political agenda. We take it for granted, but knowledge and what we create, such as craftsmanship, stories, adventures and linguistic expressions, must be taken care of for the future, and the Committee shares the concern of the proposers that things get lost. We have a responsibility and have to organize, so that it can happen. Many small forms of expression are threatened by commercialisation, deflagration to low-cost countries and lack of recruitment. One way is increased digitisation to make things available to more people, but here we are also dependent on non-governmental organisations, cf. e.g. the important work Relatives and Data do in relation to genealogy and digitisation of church books. Here all relevant institutions should know their visit time and start the job if it is not already in progress. The fact that the Norwegian Cultural Fund and the Council of Culture provide funds for projects in the field of intangible culture are positive and the Committee considers that a permanent allocation should be made. It creates predictability and provides opportunities for even better care. We just celebrated May 17th, and it was with pride many carried their banner. But there is, as the proposers say, reason to worry about the future when looking at the age development of those who sew and make our party garments. Other traditional craftsmanship is also threatened, and having educational and apprenticeship facilities is necessary to recruit for the future. The Committee has also mentioned the exchange of competences in the Nordic region, hospitation and cooperation as some of the measures. The proposals point out how difficult it is for single-member enterprises to bring in apprentices. The Committee agrees, and therefore supports a proposal that the government should look at how this can be done in the future – how it can be made simpler and in line with international rules and leadership. Several of the proposals proposed by the representatives may have significant budgetary implications and challenge legislation. Therefore, the Committee does not support these – not because we believe this is unnecessary, but because we believe it is impossible to see the consequences. It is positive that the intangible cultural heritage is taken into account in the political debate, so that more people get involved and see the value of it and why it is important to take care of it. That is why this proposal is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e142	As one of the proposers from the Left, I think it's in place that we spend a few minutes in four years discussing the intangible cultural heritage. The UNESCO Convention, which we ratified in 2007, commits us to putting in place some measures. Something's done, too. On the digital side, among other things, we see that the museums are developing both good deals and good habits and also more and more record part of our important heritage. For me, who is from a culture group, Uppland, who takes care of some of these traditions – especially the alliance environment is large in parts of Uppland – this is also an important industry. Of those who sew bundles, there are many adult women who represent small businesses. Many of them are self-employed. They're small, but they're industrious. Today we give them a handshake, so that we can help them pass on the legacy. It is not easy to run your own business and also hire an apprentice, for example. So making it easier and increasing subsidies, as the majority parties have done over the last four years, is a particularly important handshake. So I am very pleased that the committee unanimously asks the government to further strengthen the apprenticeship system for small and important crafts. Important values in this cultural heritage are also accuracy and a good deal of recycling and reuse. Taking care of it reduces the need to produce something new. In the debate on globalisation and the issue of price — e.g. For example, there are opportunities for this globalisation, which can quickly amount to many tens of thousands. in my country, Uppland, tourism is a particularly important industry. It's one of the largest export industries, and the tourists who come to our district are looking especially for many of the attractions that have to do with this particular cultural heritage. That's why it's so important, and it also gives us opportunities, so we have to discuss both sides of that globalisation. Therefore, the connection to travel is also of particular importance. We see what environment Valdres Folkemuseum is doing by collecting some of the small crafts related to both instruments, banners and themes. On the other hand, food comes more and more into this – taking care of food traditions and cultivating it. Education is also important in this respect. Hjerleid is a foundation in Oppland, which operates in higher education, among others. Trains them within naming – it almost sounds like a stranger. These small and vulnerable crafts are particularly important, and creating environments for these crafts to come together and create sustainable environments is very important. They are struggling both to obtain funding and to survive. They have quite good applications inflows, but it is demanding to run small private schools at this level. There are also opportunities for international cooperation in the Nordic and EU countries through, for example: exchange programmes. Scotland is one of the countries that has a lot of work to do with this. By creating attractive educational programmes for young people and demonstrating that this is an international cultural heritage, and the professionals in these countries – a little depending on the cultural heritage we manage – have a lot in common, and connecting them together. So there is an important debate, which we need to continue, and we need to continue to take action.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e164	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e169	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e175	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjenseth, then addressed the three proposals presented by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e180	I want to start with a thank you to the left, which raises such an important issue. Intangible cultural heritage may have been discussed more often than the representative now suggested, but not as his own case – that is correct. But this is something that – at least in our committee – is still ahead, and that we are discussing how we can get even more clear in our work. It is important and necessary to be on this all the time, for someone has to take responsibility for lifting it. The President-in-Office of the Council was in the Culture Committee during the previous period and regularly served as a representative of the Education Committee to talk about the intangible cultural heritage, the small crafts and how we should take care of them. Now I'm talking to mine in the education committee to follow up on the exact same thing. One of the challenges here is that it is in several committees, and therefore it is good that it is now being lifted. It is unanimous support from the Committee. It's often the way we think that yes, this was a matter that went through quickly in the committee, and there was no great commitment. I would like to stress that there is a great deal of commitment in the committee for this, but nevertheless a great deal of consensus. There is a great deal of consensus that one should look at this – that is why we have proposed these two proposals – and that the other proposals can be followed up when they become applicable and followed up in the budget for those with economic consequences. I know that the Council of States is following up and has been clear on it, also in its response to the Committee. I also want to remember the Council of Culture, which has been given a specific mission to follow up the UNESCO Convention, and we perceive that they are doing it actively and in a good way. The last challenge is well for those of us – or we – who are allowed to be in this room even in the next period, regardless of which committee we come into, that we are part of this field and are part of it and lift it up in all the contexts that we can, because it is important, and it affects many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e197	I would like to start by thanking the representatives of the Left for a very good proposal, and then thanking the Committee for joining the proposals that are being promoted, and also supporting the important issues raised in this matter. I am also pleased that the Committee supports these proposals which can help to strengthen the conservation work and our intangible cultural heritage. The Culture Council has been commissioned by the Ministry of Culture to coordinate work on the follow-up to the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Immaterial Cultural Heritage, and it is estimated by the Ministry that the Norwegian Cultural Council is following up this work in a very good way. One of the last actions received is the website www.immaterialelkulturv.no, a website specifically established by the Norwegian Cultural Council for the purpose of obtaining an inventory of Norwegian intangible cultural heritage within the framework of the UNESCO Convention. The website reveals the diversity that we are so lucky to have in Norway, the knowledge of intangible cultural heritage in our country is being strengthened. On this page, traditional carriers and practitioners may also record contributions to the inventory. The representatives of the Left also mention the Norwegian Institute of Crafts, which through the grant to the Lillehammer Museum Foundation receives annual operating grants from the Ministry of Culture, and their work in documenting, maintaining and promoting traditional crafts such as knowledge, culture and occupation, as well as increasing society's knowledge and respect for craft traditions. In addition, I would like to mention the NTNU Bachelor's Programme in Traditional Building Crafts, which has basic funding from the Ministry of Knowledge, but also receives grants both from the Ministry of Knowledge and from the Ministry of Climate and Environment, and is an important contribution to the maintenance of the craft traditions that we have. Another example is the Bunad and Folketing Council, appointed by the Ministry of Culture. This is an advisory body for the National Covenant and Folketing of the Norwegian Institute of Bunad and Folketing, under Valdresmusea, which is also a very important carrier of intangible cultural heritage. The background to many of the measures taken by the Ministry in this field was the 'Documentation, protection, continuation and repatriation of old crafts' of 1986, which was the final report of a working group set up by the Willoch Government in its time. It shows that we have an engagement in this field. I'm glad that it's so cross-political, that you're so concerned to preserve the values that our intangible cultural heritage represents, and that we have different measures to safeguard it. Finally, I am pleased that a unanimous committee supports this and that the government will consider the proposals that have budgetary implications and will come back to it in the ordinary budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e215	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e234	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e243	We are currently discussing a proposition that intends to set up the State Investigation Commission on Health and Welfare. The law shall facilitate the establishment of a permanent committee of inquiry to investigate serious incidents and health care conditions. The purpose of the studies is to gain knowledge of the causes of the event. Knowledge shall contribute to learning and change. Proposition based on NOU 2015: 11 ‘With open cards. Prevention and follow-up of serious incidents in healthcare services». The sample was divided into the question of whether it was appropriate to establish such a Commission. The consultation showed that there is a distinction between users and relatives on the one hand and ‘system’ on the other. Proposition is supported by Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left. In particular, these batches have been concerned that a study commission will take the patient more seriously and relatives seriously, which is lacking in current systems. During the Committee’s consultation, we received an insight into individual cases, as well as broad support for the legislative proposal. Over the last four years, there has been a general distortion of how we correct health services. Where the red-green parties are busy with the system, the government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, has focused mainly on the patient, the user and the relative. The main message is that the Commission is to be independent and not to take a civil or criminal legal position on blame and liability, nor is it to assess administrative responses to health professionals and businesses. It will thus not be a substitute for supervisory authorities or the police. Because a commission of inquiry does not aim to assess blame and responsibility, there will be reason to believe that it will be met with greater transparency. The Investigation Commission shall not be associated with healthcare, supervisory authorities, Health Directorate or other health management bodies. It is regulated by its own law and is governed by the Ministry. There are some similarities between the tasks of the investigation Commission and the investigating unit of the State Health Authority. Both bodies shall be able to move out, investigate and analyse causal links and stimulate learning. However, the investigation commission shall be able to examine the entire healthcare system, both public and private, as well as bodies such as the supervisory authorities, the Health Directorate and the Ministry. It will go deeper into the underlying causative factors and causal contexts. The proposal clarifies that alerts from patients, users and relatives should be treated in a similar way as when alerts come from businesses themselves and that there should be an obligation to allow interested parties to comment and to have access to documents. These were important points for those who met at the Committee hearing. The study report shall be published when it has been prepared. The Commission shall be given access to patient records and autopsy documents and shall receive information or be able to request assistance from other public authorities. The family has pointed to weaknesses at the current survey unit. It is an important point that more attention needs to be paid to the fact that the results contribute to learning in addition to the hospital or healthcare establishment in question. The systems and systems we need for supervision and investigation in the event of serious incidents must have confidence, learning and change as guidelines and objectives. Both the Liaison Group and a large majority of the Hearing Officers stressed the importance of strengthening the trust between the relatives and those who will be involved in the events. It is beginning to be quite many years since the Progress Party first met some of these parents who had lost their child due to errors committed by the health care system, and where, in some cases, the health care system also tried to hide that errors had been committed. These meetings showed that the system was not organised in such a way that the survivors were given the necessary answers. These parents have been concerned that no one else would have to experience the same thing, and that we have to learn from mistakes that are being made. The Progress Party has always supported these parents. They worked expediently for justice for their children, although I know that in between they have decided to give up. Today, therefore, is a victory for the individual's struggle for openness and justice, and the Progress Party is proud to be part of this. At the same time, I would like to thank Solvency Bisstrup and Unni Tobiassen Lie, who did not give up along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e269	Today, we are discussing a very important matter, a matter that has a painful background for many people in our country. It is about too many patients being injured or even killed in hospital treatment, in events that could have been proven to have been avoided. Thanks to courageous and persevering family members, a significant patient safety problem has become visible. I would like to express a great deal of recognition to the relatives, with Solvency and Unni at the head, who have much of the credit for putting safety and quality work in the health sector at the top of the health policy agenda. This was also the background to the high level of quality and safety work in the health sector undertaken by the Stoltenberg II government in 2010. The National Patient Safety Campaign ‘In Safe Hands’ lasted from 2011 to 2013, covering both specialist and municipal health services. In 2012, the first call ever came on patient safety, ‘Good quality — safe services’. Health and the Ministry of Health set up in 2010 a call-out group for the health sector as a testing scheme for two years. The team was to ensure a faster and better follow-up of serious incidents in the specialist health service, including: through local studies. In retrospect, an evaluation of the scheme was carried out and the conclusion was that the establishment of the call-out group had been received mainly positively and that the group could contribute to increased patient safety and quality. The evaluation committee therefore recommended that the call-out group be continued. It is NOU 2015: 11, ‘With open cards’ from the Arianson Committee, which forms the basis for the issue we are debating today. The committee has been mandated to go widely through many aspects of the supervisory work and to work in general on patient safety, with an extended mandate from the Solberg Government to issue legislative proposals for a commission of investigations outside the Health Authority. The conclusions of the committee show that ten sample members are against the creation of an independent ‘hazard commission’, only four members support the creation. The vast majority of the hearing bodies — over 80 in total — are also negative to such a Commission, mainly because of disproportionate use of resources in economics and professionals, but also — and not least — because, in the opinion of the hearings, the Commission is unlikely to be able to meet the high expectations created. Many also comment that it is unfortunate that a health inspectorate and a study commission outside will have a lot of overlapping activity. The Ministry also acknowledges that. The Labour Party agrees with the majority of the sample and the hearing bodies, and we believe the Medical Association has a hearing call that is so interesting that we have chosen to base it on the proposal we are promoting in the case. There is a recording that also addresses items that have been specifically addressed by the relatives. I quote: ‘The Legacy Association considers it appropriate to have a unit that can move out and conduct more thorough investigations after a serious incident, focusing on learning and improving patient safety. Such a mechanism must be set up in an appropriate way to bring objectives and instruments into line. In the view of the Medical Association, it is not essential whether the unit is set up as a separate body or as a unit under the supervision of the Health Authority. It must be essential that the unit be equipped with a mandate and sufficient resources to carry out its tasks. Furthermore, there has to be a change from the current regime in which the investigation by the exclamation team may end with supervisory follow-up and administrative reactions. One important premise is that the people involved can talk openly, that the focus is on detecting what went wrong, why it went wrong, and how to avoid the equivalent happening again, without fear of formal reactions. The unit must have as its clear task to contribute to the objective monitoring of current events, with a view to learning and improving patient safety.» The Medical Association also stresses that the unit must be balanced against the use of resources and against what is its real and real purpose. The working party refers to the fact that the mission of a commission of inquiry can be far-reaching achieved by modifying and improving the mandate of the unit already established and associated with the Health Authority. So I'm going to deal with the proposal that we're promoting with the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e296	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e301	It may not reach the front-pages in the newspapers that the Stortinget today adopts the establishment of a survey commission in Norway, but for many it is a big day. I am proud and pleased that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left now have a Health Service Investigation Commission in place. In particular, relatives have requested a commission, including: the reasons why we need to know more about the complex causes of people being injured and dying as a result of health problems. Let there be no doubt that for the Right it is heavy that patients and relatives feel there is a need for such a commission. In spite of the understanding expressed by the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen, the Workers' Party and the Centre are voting against. They also voted in favour of the Right's proposal on this in the Stortinget in 2010. But we went to the elections in 2013 – and got confidence from the voters – that we would provide the patient’s healthcare. Our health and care policy puts man and not the system in the centre. There has also been opposition to this change by key health actors. Many say that they do not see the difference between supervision and Commission approximation and that one should rather improve the current supervisory system. But it is not surprising that there is criticism of the establishment of a commission of inquiry by special representatives of today's system or service providers. Learning from mistakes and preventing errors is crucial to making health and care services even better and even safer for patients. Therefore, the creation of an independent investigation commission is an important tool in building the patient’s healthcare. The new investigation commission shall not only identify the course of events and what led to the serious incident, but also contribute to the active use of the results of the investigation for quality and patient safety work after the incident. Today, there is reason to believe that many businesses are not good enough to actively use the assessments of supervisory authorities in their quality and safety work. A Commission will work with the aim of identifying the absence of barriers to events and making recommendations to avoid such events happening again. It is a broader approach than a supervision will take. An oversight will never bring out all the aspects of a case, because everyone who explains, also knows that what they say, can be used against them. The Commission shall not take a decision on guilt or penalties, it shall separate it from health surveillance and the police. This is likely to lead to more and better information from health professionals and other actors. As a result, matters will be better elucidated and better informed and provide a better basis for learning and improving health care. From the Ministry's consultation round, I have noticed a very good argument from the University of Stavanger, Department of Health. They say that a Commission to provide information from actors who have been involved in serious incidents must be exempt from the possibility of imposing administrative sanctions or penalising health professionals who have been involved in the incident, as proposed by the government in the law we adopt today. Such an approach is also supported by the university’s international research partners in particular. The United States, England and the Netherlands. Norway aims to become a world leader in patient safety, and the University of Stavanger believes that Norway should lead in this work, thus supporting a study commission. I think that we, who are voting for this commission of inquiry today, may be doing so in order for Norway to be the world leader in patient safety, because it is an incredibly good and quite right goal, but I think we are doing it especially because we have listened to relatives and survivors, who clearly believe that such a commission will help to strengthen the legal certainty of the relatives, and that it can have a major impact on preventing future serious incidents and accidents. Thanks to the relatives who have been fighting for this matter for several years. We hope that the decision of the Storting today is seen as a recognition of the great effort they have made, and that health care will learn more in the future by preventing the serious errors that were made when they lost their loved ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e323	I hope that the vote will keep the article through. The background of this bill is, among other things, a proposal from my predecessor, Laila Davøy, in the Stortinget in 2010–2011. She promoted and fought for exactly this proposal. Laila Bavøy's commitment came from seeing an unculture in Health Norway, an unculture in which unfortunate events were not reported or investigated. The rug included: Norway was given the bottom line in a population study on patient safety. She saw that there was a need for a national review of the system problems. She had, like us, many strong encounters with relatives who had lost one of hers, often quite unnecessary, and she felt, like us, that they told stories about not being listened to, if not being taken seriously, and that no one would learn from the mistakes that were made. I believe that what is important is that this is not primarily about what individuals have done, but about system failure and inability to learn from mistakes. It is also largely a management problem. It's about having a culture in health that's open and learning. We need to ensure that the hospital learns from its own faults and from others, and that the healthcare company knows where the weaknesses lie. Hospitals must be learning organisations that use accidentally and almost occasionally to improve quality. The management must take responsibility and know where the weaknesses lie, so that the quality can always be improved and errors do not happen again. There is a cross-political agreement to have a public health service where everyone is guaranteed equivalent and good health care. Such service depends entirely on trust. When we meet relatives who have experienced losing some of theirs, we see that this violates their trust, and it is not difficult to understand. When a person loses one of his, and does not know why, and does not receive information, it is difficult to understand that a person should maintain trust. Patient safety is becoming increasingly important since we are treating more and more patients and treatments are becoming more and more advanced due to medical and technological developments and are also accelerating. The Christian People's Party believes that a commission of inquiry, or a disaster commission, as someone calls it, must be established for the health sector. We believe it is important that this Investigation Commission should not be associated with healthcare, the supervisory authorities, the Health Directorate or other health services. It may not be the healthcare that should consider itself. We believe there is a need for external investigators and analyses to be unsolicited when adverse events occur. We need to create systems that take patients and the relatives more seriously. Therefore, it is important that this bill specifies that alerts from patients, users and relatives should be treated in a similar way to when alerts come from the enterprise itself. It is therefore important that the Commission of Inquiry be given an obligation to make a notification and that the persons concerned be given access to an opinion and access to documents. This point is also important for those we met in the committee. Furthermore, it is proposed that the study report be published when it has been prepared. It supports the Christian People's Party. We have met parents who have lost a child, we have met others who have lost their child because of errors committed in the health care system, and where in some cases the health care system has tried to conceal that mistakes have been made. It is important that we learn from mistakes that have been made. We can't get back the ones we've lost, but we can prevent more lose theirs. It should not happen again, and we need knowledge of what has happened, of reasons. We need to learn to change and take the consequences of the knowledge we get, and we need transparency around this. Studies show that it is possible to prevent a significant proportion of adverse events. The Christian People's Party believes that a commission of inquiry will be an important step in the process of preventing adverse events in the health and care services, and therefore supports the Christian People's Party's bill that lies here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e343	In this case, the government is proposing a law on the State Investigation Commission on Health and Welfare Services. The Investigation Commission shall investigate serious events and other serious health and care services. It says he'll cost about 40 million. kr per year and be able to have between 20 and 25 expressions. In November 2015, a NOU named Medne was released. He just dealt with recommendations for the prevention and follow-up of serious health events. The centre party has called for a comprehensive follow-up of all the many good measures in the NOU, so that we could get a new gift for patient safety work in Norway, based on what this thorough selection presented. And then we get one thing, and she's dealing with what's called a disaster commission. It's our big concern that we don't get a whole-hearted and good commitment to patient safety work in all fields. Now we have good recommendations, and a special point that we've been advised on in all the annual messages we get about patients and quality is from the patient and user environment about why the reporting arrangements about serious events can not apply to municipalities. We don't have that in place, and I found that regrettable. In this case, it was also that a majority in the NOU, in the selection, did not recommend the creation of such an investigative commission, even though they were commissioned by the government to sort out the legal and organisational basis of a permanent independent investigation commission. I think it's a little easier to say that all those in the selection who didn't recommend it don't care about the patients. There are different ways and measures to recommend which could be the best way to do it. A minority of four support such a proposal. What is said is that the creation of a commission of inquiry involves a new national body to operate within our health services, and that he must find his place between other supervisory authorities and the police. It will be possible to ask patients, users, relatives and health professionals in several cases to provide information to both police, supervisory authorities and a new investigation commission. In the NOW, a comprehensive selection suggests that if a commission of inquiry is introduced, it should be evaluated. At least I mean one can do that. When a number of the selections are opposite, they are shown. to the use of resources in this, in terms of both money and competence, but equally important is that they believe it is more important to focus on strengthening the management competence in the prevention and follow-up of unfortunate events, and that the best learning can be done by giving the enterprises a greater responsibility and obligation to review the serious events. A majority of hearing authorities have also not recommended this way of strengthening patient and safety work. The Central Party will support the proposal made by the Labour Party that, instead of owning a new entity, a new entity further develops and strengthens the existing investigation unit in the Health Authority and adjusts the mandate of the unit based on the Arianson selection proposed. Finally, I would like to thank the contact group for having stood up and given the face to the unculture that has been in the health care system, and the lack of patient safety work – especially what one has experienced with cover and lack of openness. I mean one has contributed to many important things, including: The NOU, the printing unit and the investigations, even if we're not some of them in this particular new commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e361	For the left, the starting point is that better is always possible, and patient safety needs to be improved. I'm going to honestly admit that we've been a little bit in the mind box and been waiting to see if this is the right way to go. But the relatives have been an important voice, and they have brought forward important stories that make us decide to take them seriously and believe that it is the right resource use to help support such a survey commission. As others have said, knowledge is important, learning is particularly important. In the case of cultures: one talks about unculture — yes, but among health professionals, there may be too much understanding between professionals. I think they have both empathy and sympathy with relatives and patients who have been exposed to serious incidents, but they also have sympathy with their colleagues. Therefore, this is vulnerable and difficult for health professionals as well. It is particularly important that this is not about the mistakes of individuals and individuals. It is a system culture that needs to improve in the Norwegian health system in order for it to be the very best healthcare system in the world. In this case, the investigation competence that the relatives in particular have pointed out – that the police are coming in early, and that the police actually have competence in health care – is particularly important. They have pointed out that today the ties are becoming too close between the Health Service and the hospitals because there are mainly health professionals going between the two actors. We do not see that it is possible to break that tape without a new commission of inquiry being set up today. We see that the exclamation unit proposed by the Workers' Party and the Center Party could have been a cheaper, more appropriate, effective body to establish, but we haven't stated that it's the right model today. So we support a commission of inquiry. It's also because we see a special need for this in psychiatry. The relatives who have brought on the track stories that are so serious that we have a great need to learn. As I have said in some debates in the past, sometimes we get a little knife on the brain – it's a lot about the somaticness and mistakes that are being committed there, but also in the psychiatry, we see a lot of mistakes being made and outraged against individuals. We need to develop better system skills, equal treatment and, in particular, to improve psychiatry and drug treatment. So 40 million. kr every year we believe that we are well invested money to make our already good health care even better. We have pointed out the digital competence in a separate note, where we have received support from the Christian People's Party, because we are also beginning to get a personal critical infrastructure in the health sector when we operate in pacemakers, insulin pumps and pain pumps. A good part of these dungeons are connected to the Internet, and we know little about the possibilities of hacking them, to ‘till’ them out. Thus, we also lack the competence to investigate whether it is hacking, whether it is an external attack, or whether it is a technical failure. We need to get better at approving these dippings, that's one thing, but we also need to get a little bit more system competence for the future, to make sure we can investigate events related to possible digital deviations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e377	The Government has proposed a law on the State Investigation Commission for Health and Welfare to facilitate the establishment of a commission of inquiry. The legislative proposal follows up an important point in the government platform. The Arianson Committee has investigated how a commission of inquiry should be organised and regulated, and the legislative proposal is based mainly on that investigation. The aim of the law is to improve patient and user safety in healthcare services through investigations of serious incidents and other serious circumstances. I believe this is a historic day, and that this proposal had never come forward and been adopted without the commitment of the Family Task Force, not least with the families Lie and Bisstrup at the head. Studies show that about one in 10 patients experience an unwanted hospitalisation event. In approx. 8 pst. of the somatic patient stays, patients suffered an injury leading to prolonged stay or serious consequences. A significant proportion of the adverse events can be prevented. During the period 2005–2014, Norwegian patients’ compensation provided compensation in more than a thousand cases where people had died as a result of healthcare errors. In order to improve patient and user safety, it is important to work systematically to identify the cause of adverse events and reduce the risk of new events. This responsibility, of course, lies primarily with managers and health professionals in the healthcare sector. But the prerequisite for improvement is to learn from the mistakes that have already occurred. In many cases, complex and complex causal relationships exist. In such cases, thorough investigations across organisational boundaries will be necessary in order to draw the right conclusions on what really went wrong and what factors were crucial to the outcome. The Government considers that the establishment of a Health Service Investigation Commission will be an important measure to ensure greater knowledge of the underlying causality and systemic errors that lead to serious incidents. A question has been raised as to why the government believes there is a need for a commission of inquiry into health care services in addition to the supervisory authorities and the police. There are several reasons for this. The Committee of Inquiry will have an independent position. It will not be linked to healthcare, the supervisory authorities, the directorate or any other part of the health administration. It will therefore also be able to examine how these services perform their tasks, and it may also address its recommendations to relevant health management bodies where they may be related to errors. The Commission will be able to put the serious incident in a wider context. It can look at reasons that go across organisational boundaries and levels of administration. It can also see whether framework conditions, such as legislation, organisation and resource use, lead to an increased risk of serious incidents. It is important to look at the whole picture, especially when it comes to finding out if there is a failure in the treatment of patients in need of multi-institutional assistance. Such an overall approach will provide more information on why the failure occurs, and not least on how to achieve a limited assessment of the regulatory failure of the individual incident. The Commission shall not take a decision on guilt or penalties. This will significantly distinguish the Commission from the supervisory authority and the police. It is likely that this will lead to greater transparency and that other actors can contribute to better information. This will provide a better basis for learning and improvement throughout the service. In a sector where there is such a high risk of injury and serious incidents, and such a large proportion of the population are affected by the sector, the government considers that there is a need for an independent body that has a broader approach and can conduct thorough investigation of the course of events and possible causalities. Such an approach could give us more knowledge of the cause of serious incidents in healthcare. I am therefore very pleased that the proposal has a majority, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left. This is an important work that could just contribute to Norway’s leading position in patient safety work. Only the United Kingdom, as far as I know, is working on a similar approach to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e399	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e405	The Minister of Health and Health has made a point that this function should be independent, and then I understand that the point is to be independent of the Health Authority. But the Commission is not independent of the health authorities, it is to be an administrative body of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, i.e. the department that owns the hospitals how many of these events happen. If the Health Authority is the problem, what does the Minister of Health and Health think about what the Arianson Committee has focused on, namely, that we need to go through the entire oversight system? Why doesn't that happen in connection with this proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e413	First of all, I have not said that the Health Authority is the problem. On the contrary, I believe there is a need both for strong health surveillance and for the investigation commission. They have different roles and approaches in matters. Of course, the Health Authority will work on a much larger range of issues. Secondly, this is an independent commission. Because of the current legislative decision, it is ensured that it is independent. With regard to the other proposals of the Arianson Committee, we have already announced the promotion of a proposal with a message part that also addresses and evaluates the other proposals of the Arianson Committee. It will soon be presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e423	The council actually replied to what I had been going to ask about: what time will it notify the proposition, the message, which is about the entire patient safety field, be presented? At least one and a half years have passed since state councils received recommendations from the selection, the NOU with open cards. I think it's been quite a long time in such an important field that the whole committee has been working on. Can I ask him if he can expand: will this be done in the next few weeks? And what's the reason why it just didn't even happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e431	The Arianson Committee has done a lot of work. It has been important for me and for the government to promote this proposition, which ensures the legal basis of the commission of inquiry, quickly and get it dealt with now. But of course, we have worked in parallel with the other questions, and a matter will soon be raised that concerns them. I perceive that the representative was particularly concerned that the municipalities would be covered by the alert mechanism, and I would like to remind you that the Arianson Committee, which was the Syse Committee at the time, received its original mandate from the government of which the Senter Party was part. The notification and alert mechanism was not part of that mandate. It was after the Solberg government joined, that issue was raised in the mandate. The representative should be grateful that we now have a government with a strong commitment in this area and that has just included it in the mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e439	In terms of quality and patient safety, in several annual reports from the patient and user environment, we have been particularly alerted and asked that the notification system existing for the specialist services should also cover the municipalities. A joint committee has also been involved in many joint comments for several years. When the Council of State raises a commission of inquiry in a matter of its own, I think one could also include that scheme. Is there any reason why the government has not raised this particular issue? Is the Government and the Council disagree that the notification system should be passed on to the municipalities, or is there any other thing that has not raised exactly this insofar as simple matters are involved in this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e447	As I said, we also follow up the other recommendations of the Arianson Committee. The alerting system and the notification system entered into the mandate as a result of the changes in the mandate that I made after the accession of the government of Solberg. It is important to distinguish between the warning system and the notification system. The warning system is a very clear recommendation if it should also include the municipal health service. We'll get back to that. In the case of the notification scheme, there are different views on its effectiveness. It has also been evaluated in one round. But these questions we're going to come back to in our own proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e455	I have one more question: There have been some things when it comes to unfortunate events, where the Health Authority has gone in. One reason for unfortunate events is that it has been a culture of fear. Contributing to the occurrence of unfortunate events is that it has our bad cooperation, fear culture, that the legacy in retrospect covers each other, and that it is very little openness. Health authorities have said in a number of cases that they do not have a mandate to evaluate the working environment – whether it is a culture of fear or what one calls it. Would you like to be able to go in and look at the working environment if there is a culture of fear that is a danger to patient safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e465	The answer to that is yes. That's just one of the reasons why we think there's a need for a commission of inquiry. They can have a broader mandate and can look more closely at the systematic conditions behind and on the causal context. It is enough that health care also places greater emphasis on the work environment in its supervision now. But what will be a very significant difference is that the Health Authority has a task not least in complying with the Health Care Professional Act. They will therefore, of course, focus very strongly on the role of individual health workers. I think one of the challenges is that we don't learn enough of mistakes is that there's too much attention to the role of the individual health worker and not enough attention to the systems around which individuals make mistakes. Individuals will always make mistakes, in all human systems individuals will make mistakes. That's why it's incredibly important that we have systems and learning behind that prevent that from happening. That's exactly why the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left are in favour of a commission of inquiry. I'm surprised the Center Party doesn't support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e473	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e480	We've had a debate over the last few days about how politicians have to stop attaching bad motives to each other. I just want to remind you of the Prime Minister here in Stortinget yesterday and in Political Quarter today, and I think it's a little strange to hear that in this case the disagreement goes between those who are concerned with the patients and those who are concerned about defending a system or are concerned about the system. I have to admit that I'm very concerned about the system, because I think that if we don't have good systems in a complex and complex sector like the health sector, we can't take care of the patients. So in this case, I think we're going to put away the rhetoric that someone's busy with the patients and someone's not. I just remind you that it was the Stoltenberg II government that started a comprehensive work on patient safety campaigns and patient safety work. It was in no way too early, and I am glad that this government has followed up what we started. I just want to repeat what I asked questions about, and that to the extent that the Council of State replied to: that it is imperative that we look at the entire oversight system, which the Arianson Committee has also addressed in its report. I mean – and many people mean it, among others. The Medical Association – that the mandate, which I believe there is a cross-political agreement on here, to a commission of inquiry or an investigative unit must be different. It is necessary to focus more on learning processes after events. One should go deeper behind the events taking place in the health sector, and one should try through the work of contributing to a cultural change. It is an important mandate – whether the consensus is within or outside the Health Authority, as the Medical Association has also said. It is also the basis for our proposals: the same mandate, but organised differently. So have I, as most people here, met with relatives, and there have been very good meetings. I feel that relatives who support a commission have a very nuanced view, and we've learned a lot from it. But I think we also have to see that nothing can happen regardless of all the world commissions if you don't have a good process within the healthcare system itself, and I just want to quote the patient and user representative, who doesn't support a commission, who says: ‘It cannot be stressed enough that the healthcare itself is responsible for its own services. Managers and health professionals need to become more risk-conscious, undergo their own adverse events and assess how similar events can be prevented.’ That work, not least, we need to focus on and resources to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e497	This is a very important matter, and I am very pleased that the majority chooses to do what they are doing now, namely to ensure that a commission of inquiry is set up that is more exempted by becoming an independent commission. I react and think it is a bit strange to hear the Workers' Party's argument that they are against this; they are concerned that you can use the systems that are there today. I think the Council of State has explained in a fine way that the Health Authority is still doing the job it is doing, but this is something that has been wanted to be put in place, because it is important for people to feel that they have an independent commission that is just about to go through, make sure to learn, and look at how to do this better. Others have said that they have met and talked to relatives. I think it's important to include those perspectives. Many relatives experience that things have happened that are not supposed to be in the health care system, that it is difficult to get answers to many of the questions they have, and that their point of view does not come out in a good way. I think a commission of inquiry just will be good there. I have met a mother who lost her daughter 18 years ago, and who is still sitting with many unanswered questions because no one took it seriously, and that they were not properly investigated the events that happened there, and that makes the impression. That is why I am very pleased that we now have an independent investigation commission, which many relatives have taken up and wanted to get in place. I hope and believe that it can help you get more answers, that you get better systems, that you learn from the mistakes that happen. Too many relatives are not really so concerned about who is ultimately responsible – you want those who have made a mistake, of course, to be taken – you may well be so concerned that other people should not have to experience the terrible things you have experienced yourself as a relative to a loved one who may have lost their lives. That's why what the majority is doing is very good. I am surprised that the Center Party and the Workers' Party will not be involved, because yes, it is important to have good systems, and you should have the Health Inspectorate, who will do that job, but it is also important to take the relatives seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e510	We've all had our meetings with relatives and patients, and some of us have been both patients and relatives themselves. In fact, there are more relatives than patients in this country. That's why the Right and I are very concerned about the relative perspective of the policy. I fully agree with the representative Knutsen, I think we both agree on all the best things for the patient. Then we disagree a little bit about the tools, both here and there. But I note that there are several parties that are opposed to the establishment of such an independent investigation commission, and I expect that the establishment in Health-Norway is satisfied, because they disagree unisonably in such an establishment. However, we listen mostly to relatives, survivors and patient organisations as well as several of the most competent patient safety environments, and they are strong for this establishment. According to the Arianson Committee, on which this proposition is based, the State Investigation Commission should have a permanent staff of at least 20 staff. It should be manned by inspectors with a sound health professional background from different professional groups. Inspectors must be schooled in the field of survey methodology. They should be ensured in order to remain professionally up-to-date in the field of health. In addition, the Commission should, in the same way as the State Committee on Transport, consist of a team of organisational and management specialists, patient safety, risk management, law, working environment and psychology. In addition, the Commission should establish a network of experts involved where appropriate, depending on events being investigated. In order to succeed in an independent investigation commission, several factors need to be present. Key factors are the availability of competences and methodological tools to analyse and develop knowledge on complex causalities that can contribute to learning the most serious health and care incidents. It is central to establish cooperation between patient safety competence and risk management. In the Stavanger region, Norway’s largest research environment in patient safety has been established over time at the University of Stavanger. They established in 2017 a dedicated research centre, SHARE, with which the Committee has met, and they have top competence in the quality and safety of health and care services. Competence is built as a multidisciplinary environment with different professionals and disciplines represented to understand the complexity of healthcare services. The University of Stavanger also has SEROS, the Centre for Risk Management and Social Security, a research environment with 35-year-old roots and solid broad competence in safety matters, risk management, survey methodology and preparedness. These two research environments represent the basic competence of the Research Commission, and we need personnel who can be involved in research or as experts who will contribute to the Commission's work in selected fields of work. At the same time, it is important to stress that the investigation commission shall consist of independent personnel with high peak competence who have no link to health companies or municipalities involved in the serious incidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e528	First of all, there are a lot of speakers who have argued that we need an independent investigation commission. Thus, one might think that Stortinget thinks that the Health Authority is not independent, but they are independent. Health supervision shall be independent of the Ministry, shall be independent of the Directorate and shall be independent of the Health Service. It's dangerous if Size gives the impression that they're not. If they are not perceived as independent, there is a reason to have a thorough audit of the entire State Health Authority. It won't fix you by creating a new institution next to it. Regardless of whether you are in favour of or against an investigation commission, I think it is extremely important that we get a State Health Authority that is independent and that is perceived as independent. I hope I can all be a few in that. So to what is said that a commission of inquiry should be able to identify all aspects of such matters. There, the NOU and the Arianson selection go and indicate that one might have too much expectation that such a commission could go into all matters and investigate all matters: ‘As the sample sees it, it is not realistic for a Commission to investigate all serious incidents in healthcare, including all events leading to death. The committee believes that any Commission should examine selected issues with a view to improving patient and user safety [[...]] It is also a clarification of what is being said in the debate. It is important, what has been examined, but one should not expect the new Commission created to enter into all cases and to be able to take all possible aspects. To that end, we have the State Health Authority, which is unlikely to be considered independent, and that they are a supervisory authority based on the requirements we should impose on a supervisory authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e543	Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e548	I just wanted to remind you that everything is related to everything. If this is the case, we need to review the mandate and work of the supervisory authority, which is independent by definition. Because there is no doubt – as Toppe said – that we need effective and good health supervision that goes in and sees whether there are offences, for example, or whether laws and regulations have not been complied with. It is an important bone on which safety work is to be carried out. But then I repeat: A unit that is to have learning as its main goal can work on a very own mandate, just like the survey commission has, cf. The medical team's input, and that's what we're making in our proposal, is that this unit changes mandates and becomes a learning tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e554	The Working Party and the Centre are trying to create an impression now that there is once again a feeling that the State Health Authority is not independent. In my post, I tried at least to say that we're not necessarily talking about an unculture, but we're talking about professionals having an understanding of each other, and sometimes it's that understanding between professionals gets more emphasis than understanding or sympathy of the relative. But there is no doubt that today the State Health Authority is independent. We're talking about mandate and role, but perhaps the most important thing about the State Health Authority is their guidance skills. They are, to a large extent, a development body. They have system competence. We should remember that they also work with primary health services through the county officials, and that this is a major and important part of the mandate of the State Health Authority. The State Investigation Commission is different and must be different and must have different functions. I am very pleased that we are not further involved in the roles of the State Health Authority, but that we are now trying out an independent investigation commission with particular emphasis on creating the competences we want, because this is also about ensuring the track, audit methodology, which has so far been a small part of the mandate and task of the State Health Authority. I think that's why we need this Commission just to make a contribution to and a grant to develop our common healthcare. This is where the relatives have been so clear that this is not the connection with the police, to the methods the police are working on, well developed. In the long term, we might find some common units here, but it's a way to go. In psychiatry, we've been dealing with some organs that date back to the 1800s. So we have a job to do here by supplementing and developing, and then I think it's time we tried with such a commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e564	We don't "try" with such a commission -- we set it up and set it up, because we think that's right. It may seem that the Workers' Party wants a commission, just not the government's commission. However, adjusting the mandate for what is being done by the Health Authority today does not change fundamentally, namely the legal basis. Health supervision will always have to assess responsibilities under the Health Personnel Act and they will always have to assess penalties. That's a little bit of the point of an independent commission: you get a review where there's no one talking about what's going to happen to someone who might have done something wrong. We think that will enrich that kind of work. Since there was a debate where it is suggested that we suggest that the Health Authority is not independent – of course they are! There's no one here saying anything else, but there's a reason to think that when there's such a strong bond between the different units, someone on the outside might be okay with this review. We even want the Commission to advise the Health Authority, with proposals for changes to procedures and working methods. They should actually do it. I am absolutely convinced that healthcare, both primary and specialist healthcare, has a lot to learn from other industries, where avoiding errors is part of the production process, by integrating safety into products. We see that in the aviation industry, in the car industry and in the pharmaceutical industry. There's a completely different culture for wrong. In this regard, I have a story from the industry I come from, the production of drugs, where they operated with an anomalies on a certain number of pro-miles. There was an order from a European company to Japan. Then came a pallet of finished products back, with a box on top. The box at the top did not understand the Europeans. It was the box with errors, because they had said how many wrong deliveries they accepted, and the Japanese interpreted it as if you wanted so many errors. We have something to go by all the ways. With this, I think we can end a good debate. I don't think we should suspect each other of having different motives, but I'm convinced that independence is important in getting a good look at these events, which are too many of them in health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e580	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e617	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines with up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e626	First of all, thanks to the proposers who have promoted this important issue for debate, with a focus on what is already being done and what may be better for people with dementia. Despite the fact that many policies are already being taken both centrally and locally in the municipalities for the prevention, activation and treatment of people with dementia, it is undoubtedly very important to keep an eye on developments — this in order to be able to improve the provision of this patient group and their relatives, depending on where the person with dementia is in the course of the disease. An overall committee agrees that in the future we will face increased challenges related to dementia and memory diseases, and that it is important to secure people with dementia’s meaningful and good services. Nevertheless, the majority of the Committee does not support the proposals, as we believe that this is already doing a lot of good in this area. The proposals promoted could also be implemented within the current grant scheme for day-to-day activities of persons with dementia. The representative proposal is based on a general acceptance that both physical and mental exercise in everyday life is important for maintaining health, not least in older years, including for people with memory impairment and dementia. A Joint Committee therefore agrees that physical activity and mastery of other day activities are clearly preventive and the Committee is aware that persons with dementia active experience a better quality of life than persons with dementia who do not receive such an offer. The Committee also agrees that a well-developed offer to people with dementia in the municipalities is important and indicates that in 2015 the government presented Demen Plan 2020, which presents day-to-day offers for dementa as one of the most central actions. The Government will also promote a proposal to amend the Health and Care Services Act, which establishes an obligation for municipalities to provide day-time activities to residents with dementia, applicable from 1 January 2020. In order for municipalities to be well prepared before the obligation enters into force, the government has set up a grant scheme to stimulate municipalities to build day-time activities for residents with dementia. The grant is flexible and municipalities are free to develop measures that meet the needs of users. I have mentioned several concrete measures that show that municipalities already have strong financial incentives to expand day-time activities for people with dementia. In the 2017 state budget, the government has provided 750 additional seats. I would strongly encourage the municipalities to apply for the funds. Finally, I would like to remind you that the government has recently launched the Life Reform, one of the main areas of action being activity and community. The aim is to ensure that municipalities learn from each other, exchange experiences and make changes based on what turns out to be working. My home municipality Ålesund is a good example of a municipality that provides good activities for dementes. The municipality has also concluded a cooperation agreement with the National Association for Public Health that Ålesund should be a dementia-friendly municipality. Here, voluntary activity friends contribute by providing people with dementia’s activities and good experiences in everyday life. The goal is for people with dementia to meet understanding and respect. They shall be supported to be included and participate in necessary everyday activities such as trading, using public transport, participating in cultural activities and tour groups, etc. I am sure that there are many similar good examples around the country, which can be shared between municipalities, and with it stimulates increased activity for the elderly with and without dementia, so that more people can live their whole lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e648	In the proposal for a representative for Document 8:51, the Workers' Party proposes the establishment of a grant scheme with earmarked funds of at least 40 million. kr per year for activities for people with memory impairment or dementia. The grant shall be available to municipalities and/or counties and must be in addition to the ordinary resources allocated to day-time activities for elderly residents with dementia. We also propose that the government launch a three-year pilot project in at least three counties, with a grant of up to 5 million. kr per year per county, within the framework of the proposed activity scheme as described in this case. So what kind of money is this? It is simply money that we can save by not stagnating on the legs of the unnecessary and quite wasted bureaucracy that follows the government's performance project with the somewhat mundane title 'State financing of the care of the elderly'. It is a simple attempt that has failed. The municipalities have – one by one – renounced any notion of this experiment. We therefore believe that the significant amounts spent on bureaucracy in this experiment can be used to the benefit of something that really works – activities, culture and lifelong projects aimed at the elderly with memory failure and dementia. Demos represents a serious health problem among older people throughout the Western world, and researchers believe that the number of dementia can double over the next 25 years. The size has decided that municipalities should be obliged to establish a daily activity offer for people with dementia and that this should be in place by 2020. In the budget setting of the Ministry of Health and Health for 2017, both we and the Central Party noted that the government parties reduced the funds for daily activity grants by 45 million. kr as a result of expected reduced consumption. It is important that the government strengthens the grant and ambitions for the next year for day activities. Despite increased funding for this purpose over several years, there will be a need for nearly 5400 more residential sites with dementia over the period 2018-2020. It's a good piece before we reach that goal. Too many older people are passive in health and care services, and this is made particularly visible as a challenge at home. The Labour Party believes that today’s situation is unsustainable, and that stronger policy instruments are now needed to provide more content and activity in the care of the elderly. We believe that there is a need for a systematic and overall effort to increase activity in the care of the elderly, and especially in health care homes. By activity we mean physical activity, but also cultural and social activity, which is important for creating joy, well-being, mastering and belonging. All older people, regardless of their level of function, need to be physically active to fit their level. Physical activity is beneficial to health and can counteract diseases — this applies to the older population in the same way as younger people. Health Minister Bent Höie argues in his reply to the Committee dated 28 March that the government does not support this proposal, because there is currently a under-use in the municipalities of funds allocated for setting up day-to-day activities for elderly residents with dementia. But I would argue that the proposal we are debating here embraces broader than this and will provide far greater opportunities for municipalities, counties and the willingness to contribute to different, good activities for the elderly. The proposal covers both residents of homes with dementia and residents of institutions and will be an important complement to the funds allocated to day-to-day activities. The Minister for Health also rejects the proposal on the grounds that there are not many different schemes for similar purposes. But there is nothing in the way that the government can phase into the scheme we outline in this proposal, into an extended and easily accessible grant scheme. However, an independent point is the proposal to launch concrete trials in at least three counties with earmarked funds for activities for the elderly. This could have an important learning effect on other counties and municipalities and contribute to a greater interest in such efforts. Then I will deal with the proposals we are promoting with the Central Party and the Christian People's Party in case no. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e664	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e669	There are important proposals that have been raised, and I am very pleased that the proposers have raised this important issue of human rights in the care of the elderly. The funny thing is that the party that has raised the matter today, put in government when part of these violations were actually committed. But enough about it. I fully agree that what's important is that we have to have the exact same tolerance for violations of human rights here, which we have with our vision of zero seriously damaged and killed in traffic. We also need to have a vision of having zero violations of human rights in the care of the elderly. This is very important to work on to prevent future human rights violations in Norway. This is also why the government has launched more measures to strengthen and improve care for the elderly and to help all those who need it get a decent, warm and safe care for the elderly. That is why we are in the process of living our whole lives, which is also going to end with a big message about quality, how to improve the quality of care for the elderly, and how to ensure good care for the elderly in Norway in the future. It's very important and means mass, and I think the government and the Progress Party, which is part of this government, are actually taking a lot of action here now. We have also given insanity a lot more money to make sure that more new sick homes are built, more nursing homes with good luck, than the red-green government has been able to in its last four years. Only this year it's set with as much money as the red-green government managed in four years. It shows that there is a completely different commitment and a completely different willingness to clean up the care of the elderly and make sure that there is enough room for those who need it. I'm sure everyone got the case yesterday about Social Security that doesn't fit in in a nursing home because the municipality believes that he is not bad enough, despite the fact that I believe most people who see this, realize that this is a person who needs help. Then to the proposal of activity grants to demente. I fully agree that is very important, and that is what the government has been committed to. Among other things, we have Dementia plan 2020, and we've said that there's going to be rights fixation in the future if the municipalities don't do this. And they can only start right away, for the rights fixation will come. Last year the government granted funds to 1,200 new places. Unfortunately, the municipalities did not follow up. They applied for less than half of the money they needed to put in place daily activities for dentures. It's not good, and especially we who are happy with few money to just improve and strengthen the care of the elderly, it seems a pity that the municipalities are not taking the challenge and that quite a few municipalities are actually choosing not to apply for these funds. There is also some background to the fact that there is probably a small amount in 2017, but there are still 750 more places in 2017 that the government has entered into the budgets, and that is precisely because we believe that this is an important area, and want to bet on this. When it comes to what I said about the municipalities having to do this, if not a law and a law is coming, it was a little wrong. It's actually something that lies there that the court is going to come from 2020. It's very good, and I'm very happy about it. This was something that the Workers' Party did not get for the eight years they put in government. That's why it's very gratifying that you've now clearly said that this is going to happen. Although it may be a bit on the edge of the matter, I still want to go up this with the recovery plan, because it's also about activity, it's about older people having a good time and getting help and being able to handle themselves better. Fortunately, we now have a government that has got this escalation plan in place after the organisations have worked for maybe 20 years to get it done. Here we go. And then you could probably say that it would be even more, but it's a stepping-up plan. That means you're going to step this up, and that means you can give even better offers and activities for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e687	Demos represents a serious health problem among many older people in the Western world. The estimate in our own country is that at least 78 000 have been hit. It's not just the one that's hit, it's going down, it's all the ones that's close to the person. Living with people with dementia might make a different approach to talking about this patient group. The person you're with, you're happy with, you look strange in a way to disappear into another world. The one one is happy in, losing qualities he has been able to have before, and it's bad to see that people suddenly can't do what they could do before. Then it's important that those who have this suffering and lose their competence in what they've done in the past get something meaningful to fill their days with. Together with other departments at the hospital in Stavanger, SESAM, the Regional Center for Old Age Medicine has created a memory outpatient clinic to help those who get a dementia disease to recognise – and as far as possible live with and master – this disease, maintain it, maintain it as much as you can, as long as you can. There's room to talk about what they think is challenging, and not least learn to live with it. Here it's not the family who's the main focus, but the person who's been diagnosed. One meets like-mindedly, and the results are incredibly good. It is important for the members of the Committee to ensure that each individual with dementia experiences a meaningful and good service offer. In addition, some of us in the Committee have started a cross-political parliamentary work here on the Storting in a parliamentary group just for this patient group, in order to gain knowledge about, and not least look at, good offers and actions around the country. This is a cross-political group that I think Stortinget can take advantage of. It is certain that activity leads to mastery, and good, meaningful day activities may expose the need for nursing homes or other care services. At the same time, research shows that good activity offers improve the quality of life. It is important as far as it is possible to obtain a flexible offer adapted to the individual. For me, it was a great experience to be on a daily offer in Ålesund, meeting a group of relatively young men who were allowed to be participants and getting help with what they were working on, maintaining in the municipality, under guidance. I saw the pride of being allowed to continue doing things even if you don't quite remember how to do it, but a managed well when you got guidance. The look to those who mastered this everyday was enough for me to say that this is how we should bet. When they could no longer go on that offer, they got a better offer as the disease progressed. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we have been involved in lawmaking that municipalities have obligations to provide a daily offer by 2020. A lot of money has been put on the table, and unfortunately it is not completely used up because many municipalities refuse to start up. I can understand that, too, because it's the operation that costs. Starting up is one thing, but running costs. That is why the Christian People's Party also believes that there is a need to stimulate further development. With regard to the second Document 8, on human rights, we receive many reports every year on the number of non-compliances with quality and security work and human rights violations. The Christian People's Party believes that it is not possible to stick under the chair that it is about systems and management, but it is also about enough and qualified staff. The Christian People’s Party wants – according to its national meeting decision – a recruitment standard in Norwegian nursing homes, according to the care weight of the individual ward in the nursing home. We know that this costs, but we also know that it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e707	We have a joint debate on two important issues that concern the care of the elderly: securing human rights in the care of the elderly and creating a system of support for the activity project for people with memory loss and dementia. It is clear that much is good in Norwegian care for the elderly, but we also need to focus on what we are criticized for, namely lack of activity, content and co-destination. On the matter of human rights, I first have a reply to the representative, Bård Hoksrud, who said that it was ‘funny’ that this was caused by a party that put in government when the report was drawn up. This case is anything but ‘moral’, and I think we need to take that report very seriously from the National Institute for Human Rights. We have had a case on this before in this committee, where the SV's proposals were voted on, but the conclusion of that report is brutal. It says that the treatment of those living in Norwegian hospitals is ‘rarely in line with Norway’s human rights obligations’. The report also concluded that there is a ‘need for a thorough monitoring of the human rights situation in Norwegian hospitals’, among others. addressing abuse, degrading treatment, interference with personal integrity and necessary and defensive health care. So when it is confirmed that human rights violations occur in Norwegian hospitals, we have to take it very seriously. This is not a question of either increasing basic staffing or increasing competence, better leadership, changing culture and attitudes, it's about both. Improved knowledge of human rights is needed in the services, in education. We need to put in place the notification system for municipal health and care services that are not yet in place, which means that this is going to be the hidden thing that is not coming up. In the setting, there are suggestions such as: The centre party is behind it, which is about putting in place concrete measures to prevent abuse in hospitals through reinforced staffing and better training of addees, and ensuring that basic knowledge of human rights is included in the training and training of those added. There are proposals to ask the government to launch as soon as possible a survey of the human rights situation in Norwegian hospitals, where there are also sources of living there and their relatives. It is proposed to carry out a review of the control and review systems for the rights of health care providers and to provide resources for voluntary work to support human rights work in the care of the elderly. This I think all the serious party should consider being able to support. So to the Workers' Party's case of creating a back-up system: the Center Party has had its own variant, and suggests that, on a national back-up scheme to secure the position of hospitals as a contributor to increased activity. There may be activists, nutrition physiologists, ergot therapists, physiotherapists, volunteer coordinators, etc. So we stick to what we have put forward, but we share the intention of the Labour Party proposal. So to day activities places: The Storting did not agree to a right, as the representative Bård Hoksrud said – The Stortinget assumed an obligation for the municipalities to offer. It was in connection with a proposal for a representative on day-to-day activities that the Centre Party presented a few years ago. We are pleased that a whole bunch of people have said that this should be an obligation to offer in 2020. We also proposed a stepping-up plan at that time, so that we could make sure that all those in line could have known that they would have a place, and that in a few years all the municipalities had built it out. The proposal was put to the vote. But it's not like a plurality in the committee writes that there are'strong economic incentives to expand day-time activities for people with dementia' in Norway today. Why, then, are there millions of dollars in unused funds in the state budget every year, if the financial arrangement is so good? We are proposing today to increase the rate of return from 30 pst. to 50 pst. If one thinks anything about the importance of day-to-day activities, at least one should vote in favour of that proposal. I'm making the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e727	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e732	These are two issues that are closely related – the violation of human rights in the care and care sectors and the ongoing challenge we face with memory diseases because there is a strong increase in the number of people who get that kind of brain disease. As the representative of Bollestad was involved, the estimate is up to 80,000 in Norway. By 2040 that number can double. We're facing a big challenge, and here we have to have a hard time. The relatives will become important, non-profit actors will become important, and of course the municipalities, which currently operate the primary health service, will become important. For the Left, it is important that we strengthen research related to both what leads to dementia, the causes of it, and how we can prevent and reduce progress. For us, it's also important that we get a brain health plan. It's a particularly important tool that we need to get in place to give brain disease a boost. As many people have experienced, we have already decided that municipalities will have an obligation to have day-to-day activities from 2020. It's an important signal from Stortinget. Many municipalities are on the right track, but more people are worried – including in the debate here – that they are not doing what we want to do. Sometimes it can be heard in this debate from those who want the most and the least possible municipalities, that they should really just do what we say in Stortinget. It's not that simple. And sometimes you can also ask yourself if we're going to care about something special when they don't do what we say or want. We're dependent on each other, no matter how many municipalities there are. We have to care, but at what level? One can also ask the question: when so much money is unused, why is there not a priority in the municipalities? I want to go a little bit into some concrete measures. In the Netherlands they build dementia villages, and it is a debate that has also come to Norway. The first dementia villages in Norway are under construction. The municipalities in Norway that focus on this have mainly built dementia. I think it's a development that's going to continue. At home in Gjøvik we have examples of this: Sørbyen care centre, which has built sense garden, uses music therapy and historical rooms. We have e.g. visited the daytime activity centre in Bærum, Sandvika, and looked at digital bowling and digital boxing. There are new aids that allow you to get the stimulation of both the brain and the body that many people definitely need. Then we've also been on committee tour in Stavanger and got to see that maybe not only the food being put on the table is important, but also which plate. A white plate makes them eat less with cognitive failure and dementia, but if they get a colorful plate and hit the food, it makes it easier to eat yourself and enjoy the food. For example, we don't have a design manual for dementia in Norway that points to how important these contrasts are for you to be able to do things yourself. Colours and nuances change. It is possible to make kitchen furnishings that demente can use, just as it is possible to create digital bowling. Such simple tools, where we use designers and design environments to a greater extent, are examples that we need to promote and stimulate to a greater extent. It's possible to do a lot here. In everyday life – I’ve been through this both with my own father and with older friends who have received dementia – people are also challenged when it comes to human rights violations. There's a balance between relatives and health professionals, because there's something they don't feel that they can do as relatives are required to do, like get their own father to the councillor, where one has to use some physical power. Therefore, the work of relatives is very important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e748	Does the representative wish to address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e754	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e760	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjenseth, then referred to the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e766	There are two things that we are now dealing with that are clearly related. We're talking about a vulnerable group where many people can't afford their own dishes, and it's very much about proposals for measures to ensure a positive and worthwhile end of life. SV supports the suggestions from the minority in both cases, except for Left's one suggestion in one case. The thing I want to make a few more comments is the one that's about human rights. In Norway, we set high standards to comply with human rights. If we are to secure human rights in the care of the elderly, we must have good, sufficient and qualified health workers in Norwegian hospitals, but we must also have good supervision systems and reporting systems. In 2014, the National Institute for Human Rights presented the report ‘Human Rights in Norwegian Hospitals’. Their conclusion was that the operation of Norwegian hospitals does not comply with human rights. Their conclusion was that there is a need to monitor human rights in hospitals. Here we find abuse, degrading treatment and challenges of integrity, but also violations of necessary and defensive health care. The most serious cases described in the report are care failure and abuse of death as a consequence, sexual exploitation, gross coercion and negligeeing and illegal coercive medication. This is going to be blacked out, and what I'm counting with the whole Biggest seems to be a hell of a reading. But it requires us to deal with this properly. What is going on in the National Institute of Human Rights report is that a higher base crew with sufficient competence is crucial to address these challenges. For SV, what we have included in both our alternative budget and work programme is that we want minimum standards for staffing at Norwegian hospitals and in the care of the elderly in general. It is the long-term response – and today there is too low staffing in Norwegian hospitals. But then we have to do things in the more short term, which is about the systems that are going to capture the cases that are. It is about monitoring, reporting to the UN Committee on Human Rights, which is not being done today – and we think it is good that the Committee now wants to do so, and that the Council of State indicates that the government now wants to launch such reporting – and also the review of current control procedures. It is a paradox that there are very few complaints about human rights violations despite the fact that the situation is as unsustainable as he is in Norwegian hospitals. Therefore, it is important to see if today's control system actually works. We need to find out if the Health Authority is actually doing its job well enough, and possibly what needs to be done. Therefore, it is disappointing that the Christian People's Party and the Left and the Government do not support the rest of the proposals that SV has made, while it is equally positive that the Labour Party and the Central Party support the proposals and take the situation seriously for the elderly in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e781	The government is committed to improving the provision of services to people with dementia and their relatives. In Demenplan 2020, as the government presented in December 2015, is an important part of the work. We create the patient’s health and care services, and people with dementia and their relatives have played an important role in the work of the Demen Plan 2020. Daily provision is highlighted as one of the most central measures to have a good life with dementia. Activities are a central part of the service provision to support both residents and residents in hospitals. The Government will propose amendments to the Health and Care Services Act which provide for an obligation for municipalities to offer day-time activities to residents of their homes with dementia, applicable from 1 January 2020. In 2012, a earmarked grant was established to stimulate municipalities to establish day-to-day activities for residents with dementia. The aim of the scheme is to build organised day-time activities for residents with dementia. The grant is flexible and the municipality is free to develop actions that meet the needs of the user. The proposals made in the proposal for a representative can be implemented within the current grant scheme for day-to-day activities of persons with dementia. They are also supported by other grant schemes, including: development and testing of environmental therapeutic methods, such as the use of songs and music integrated in the treatment of people with dementia. It is not considered appropriate to establish additional new grant schemes having exactly the same objectives as existing schemes and measures. The Health Conference on 11 May this year was the start of government reform life. One of the main areas of action in the reform is activity and community. Through this work, the government will assess measures and instruments to ensure that municipalities learn from each other and implement changes based on experience on what works, including: to stimulate increased activity among the elderly. The government is concerned with the services of the elderly and the conditions of Norwegian nursing homes. That is why we have taken a lot of steps that will provide better services for the elderly. We have strengthened the financial instruments for developing skills, and we are making a major effort to increase the competence of municipal health and care services. We train several leaders and make clear demands for management. We have significantly strengthened the investment grant for lucky day care facilities. We have created our own dementia plan, and we have worked to develop and establish a separate safety standard for hospitals, which the municipalities are implementing. We require a medical review for all residents of hospitals. We have a right to a hospital or equivalent place of residence and reduced the proportion of people living against their will to live in a double room in a nursing home. The government has therefore focused on increasing the capacity, competence and quality of services for the elderly. It has been absolutely necessary to make these changes so that we are now reforming the quality of services for the elderly. Many older people experience great differences in health, mastering, well-being and safety. We know that the quality of services varies between municipalities and within the municipality. In many places, late help and poor services lead to aggravation of disease and plague, and old age becomes heavy and difficult to master for both the elderly and the family. We have therefore started working on a reform aimed at helping older people to master their whole lives, at preventing relatives from struggling, and at allowing employees to use their skills. We need to find the tools that work in practice and make sure that they are used throughout the country. In the reform, we are gripping the areas where it fails the most: food, activity and community, health care, and the provision of coherent services. Lifelong life is a reform that comes about in cooperation with those who need the services, those who provide the services, and those who are responsible for the services. That's why we're going out into the country and we're going to listen to those who wear the shoes. I have also noticed that the National Institute for Human Rights recommends that authorities report on challenges related to the human rights of the elderly in the report sent by Norway to the international monitoring bodies. We have already followed this up by mentioning the conditions of Norwegian nursing homes and the conditions of the older part of the population, where this has been relevant. I therefore support the Committee's proposal to include the situation of Norwegian nursing homes in Norway's reports to the international human rights bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e797	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e802	The Workers' Party's proposal on money for activity is to take unnecessary red tape and transfer it to something that could really mean a difference for older people. It is a significant pot that we want to be a low-hanging fruit for municipalities and others who will make an effort with activity and culture for the elderly. I have understood that the Minister of Health does not think that is a point, but we agree that day-time activities are important. You can understand in many ways that the municipalities refuse a little, because this is, as I said earlier here, also about the staff to be able to take that job. So the government has now reduced the money to 45 million in the current year's budget for day-to-day activities. kr. What does the Minister of Health see that he can do from the Ministry to speed up work on day-to-day activities in municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e810	The proposals made by the Workers' Party in this proposal are already covered by existing grant schemes. The challenge is that municipalities are not using the schemes to a sufficient extent. It would be pointless to leave unused money on an account and could not be used for other good purposes. That's the background for the repriorization. I really hope that this year the municipalities apply in so many places that they show that they have seen this become an obligation from 2020. What we can do is just to help the municipalities see that it's possible to solve these problems in different ways. Here are many good examples from all over the country from businesses that use these grant schemes and find different ways to organise them. Everything from Inn on the tune to social entrepreneurs to their own municipal offerings at museums and elsewhere, which are established precisely because this scheme is flexible and open to those who want to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e818	Here the Minister of Health is talking about different measures in different municipalities, and I fully agree that this is happening very well. What we have in this proposal, which is a little special, is a proposal that we can start a little wide-ranging trials in, for example. three selected counties. We have proposed a 40 million scheme. kr per year of such action. If we get broad bets that might be initiated centrally, does the Minister of Health not see that it could be a good idea, so that you were actually aware that there was money for this, and that it could stimulate the municipalities to get started?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e826	I can never imagine that there is a municipality in the country that is not aware that these subsidies exist. These are grant funds that have been mentioned and advertised for several years. Now the municipalities will also be aware that there will be an obligation from 2020. These resources are allocated in a flexible manner. There is no need for any own test methods, on the contrary. I think that the Workers' Party's proposal would only create confusion about the grant schemes that are already in place, if we were to meet a challenge of getting the largest possible municipalities involved in this by establishing further application processes and additional funding. I think it's more important for the municipalities to actually spend the money that's already been set aside for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e832	I brought this up in my post with design. Architecture is also part of this. A lot of hundreds of millions of dollars are spent in many municipalities building new hospitals, and they are built with local building blocks and preferably with the signature of local architects. But we also see a need to gather some threads that are professionally related, and develop design manuals for them with cognitive failure and dementia. I wonder to what extent the Council of State sees some areas of expertise being able to develop that kind of manuals – for interiors, but also outdoors – and use lights and other tools to stimulate outings.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e838	In the case of buildings, housing and nursing homes, this has been ensured through the central competence environment, which is the House Bank, in this area. They just act as a competence bank for municipalities. The feedback I get from the municipalities is that those who really open up and use the Husbanken's skills when they also receive grants get a lot of experience from them, because then a stone is built on stone with experience from one place to another. The government has also given money to a dedicated service design area, which I really recommend to the representative to read. Among other things, Kristiansund Municipality has received its own design prize for their work on how they use design to involve volunteers in nursing homes. So here it happens very much exciting. I fully agree that design and architecture are of great importance, not least for people with cognitive failure and dementia to have the opportunity to master their own lives to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e845	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e852	The draft representative, Document 8:56 S for 2016–2017 on human rights, brings important issues into the debate on the care of the elderly. The backbone is that two years ago, the National Institute for Human Rights produced the report Human Rights in Norwegian nursing homes. The report refers to the fact that the situation of residents of Norwegian hospitals cannot be said to respond to Norway’s human rights obligations. Action is being taken here to ensure that residents are protected from ill and degrading treatment and to prevent interference with the privacy of individuals. A key factor in achieving good quality of care is competent staff. The working party will raise the formal level of education in health care and provide workers without formal health education with an opportunity to acquire new competences. A decentralised training structure for the different professionals can ensure good professional quality and sufficient staff across the country. We need to train good managers in municipal health and care services and have services based on regular employment and full positions. If we are to succeed in providing high-quality services, we must have transparency on all aspects of care. Unfortunately, the Public Health Act is being practised differently in the care of the elderly. Trondheim has long had great transparency on all aspects of the municipality's care for the elderly, but a completely different practice was seen under bourgeois rule in Oslo. Merpublicity is an important principle, and it must be pursued by all those engaged in welfare services. It is difficult when competitive outsourcing and commercialisation lead to the keeping of information on operations outside the public on the grounds that these are business secrets. A safe and good quality requires full transparency on all relevant aspects of the operation, competence, manning and alerting of nursing homes. It must be completely independent of ownership or operating form. The representative Hoksrud was involved in the construction of a nursing home. The investment grant was provided by the Stoltenberg II Government in 2008. It was the same government that earmarked money for day-to-day activities for older dentures, in Demenplan 2015. Over the course of eight years, 22,000 new annual works of care came, 80 of which had 80 pst. relevant professional background. Growth in annual work is halved over the last four years if we rain on average per year, so there's a challenge. I've said that before, and I can repeat it: It doesn't help to build new hospitals if you don't have enough people to go into the operation there. It is an important challenge to have sufficient staff, and competent staff, in the care of the elderly in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e866	As the rapporteur for the SV's proposal to secure human rights in the care of the elderly, it is nice to say that the Committee has agreed to ask the government to include the conditions of Norwegian nursing homes in its reports to international human rights bodies. That is what is happening today, and the Council of State has commented on this in its letter. This also applies to the proportion of the population who do not live in nursing homes. The SV representative’s proposal is based mainly on a report from the National Institute for Human Rights, and one of the sources of this work is the Health Inspectorate’s survey on elderly health and care services in the period 2009–2012. The 2014 report showed that there is cause for concern about the human rights of residents of Norwegian hospitals. It is important to note that Norwegian care for the elderly, both the institution-based and those in home care and home care, is well above all. But we now also know that there is great variation and inequality in the offer both within municipalities and between municipalities. It's a certainty we've had for a while, and it's been a high priority from our government to take action and change the organization to ensure the rights and human rights of the elderly better. Reports of extreme coercion challenge us in particular. It was absolutely necessary to develop new rules for the use of coercive care services – as is known in Section 4A of the Patient and User Rights Act – because some patients, especially those with dementia, are unable to assess their own situation and oppose healthcare without understanding its scope. It is incredibly important to carry out continuous competence work on the use of coercion and the framework within which it is to be used in the care of dementia. Therefore, it has been important for the Right Party Government to ensure increased quality and knowledge of quality, both in order to limit the use of coercion and failure and to improve the quality of care. The government has a high focus on quality and patient safety work. After our government has acceded, annual reports are submitted to the Quality and Patient Safety Council. We'll grant $12 billion. This year, we have established leadership training for the health and care sectors. We have also introduced demands for police clearance for those who are required to provide services in the care services of municipalities. In the notification of the medicinal product, the Stortinget has agreed that all municipalities should provide a systematic review of medicinal products for the elderly in hospital homes. Two weeks ago, Mr. Bård Hoksrud and I visited Lambert's old-age nursing home. They don't just have a drug dosate, they also have an activity dosate for each one. Many hospitals around the country experience that when you work systematically with good activities and communities for patients, drug use goes down, and many older people report an increase in the quality of life as a result. This is also important input to take with us when we are going to work to reduce coercion in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e882	I do not know if the representative Toppe does not want to hear what I said, or why she did not get what I actually said quite clearly: yes, the report will be taken seriously, it is an important report. There is something the government – with the Right and the Advance Party – is also taking seriously, and it has made clear to the Council in its response to the Committee. Because it shouldn't be a violation of human rights, it's what you work for, and that's why I said you have to have a goal that it won't happen in the care sector. We need high standards, as the representative from SV also said. I thought I might have been the last speaker. Usually I tend to provoke so that someone else takes the word, but I didn't think I should, because it's also important to get some of the good examples. As the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen said just before me: we were at Lambertseter's old and sick homes, and it was a great experience to be part of the daily activity offer there – that's a private alternative, which someone is not so happy about. They have two music therapists working just to activate the elderly who live there. We got to join in and sing, and for our own part it's like I'd rather not do that, the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen was probably much better at that job. But it was a great experience to meet the elderly and see what joy it was to be allowed to be part of the daily activity offer there. I also want to go back to my own municipality, to brag a little bit of a project that is going on there, where something has now been done about having had a lot of problems with violence and aberrations in relation to demented patients, which are both offensive to other patients and against employees. You had a lot of sick leave, and you had a lot of medicine. So now, for a few months – quite a few months – an attempt has been made to show that by investing in providing skills for employees, everyone was told how to deal with complaints at the hospital. The results are quite incredible. By increasing staffing and providing skills to employees, the deviations have almost disappeared, sick leave has declined, and, not least, drug use has decreased by 65 pst. in nine months. It says something about what you can do for the quality of life of those who live there, if you both help to strengthen the manning, make sure you put in place activities, increase your skills and reduce your drug use. So this is a government that pays and provides opportunities, so we've also made arrangements and commitments to build far more hospitals than what you did under the red-green government – because we need more hospitals, and we need more places of service for lucky days.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e894	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e899	Yes, we need more hospitals, but we need a much greater variety of bets in the care of the elderly, because now there are people like me who are getting old, and we have a different story and other demands. I think we should agree that care for the elderly is very good, for example. at the Darkwood Hospital in Bodø, a public hospital, where you know the great atmosphere as soon as you get in the door – both when you see the residents and talk to the employees and see the interaction between them. I just want to say to the Minister of Health that I'm a little worried that he settles down on the fact that there are many grant schemes. I think he's exaggerating when he says that all the municipalities know what's there. I don't think so, and I think many municipalities don't know how to apply. So my wish is for the Minister of Health to take along the input that we have made today, and look at whether these grant schemes – 5 million. Here, $10 million. There, which may be included in the health budget, can be organised in a different way, so that they can be made available. And then I believe in the attempts we have now proposed, which can really show what is possible for the money that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e909	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e928	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the rapporteur on the matter, Mr Ketil Kjeseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e939	I wasn't prepared for that, so I have to give it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e945	Then it's Torgeir Knag County.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e950	: Then I get to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter! This is a representative proposal that probably has different types of inputs. It is quite obvious to SV that taking care of children and making sure that the whole system around their health and their lives is well cared for in Norwegian municipalities today. The whole of this work is provided by the public before and after birth and throughout primary school — through maternity, health and school services. This is in many ways the gold in the Norwegian welfare state and the Norwegian health service. It is these services that can help mothers and fathers to be good mothers and fathers, which can help when problems arise, which may reveal the problems early before it begins to become a bigger problem, which can prevent children from developing major challenges that continue to reproduce in both life, health and child protection. In many ways, this is the gold in the Norwegian welfare service – this work that is happening early in life. It helps for children, but also for parents. This is a bit of a reason why SV has always pointed out these services when we have worked out the major health concerns. It's not a blue light. It is simply about preventing and promoting good health. That's what's in the center. The work being done is frequent. According to the Minister of Health, the government’s work in this area is the introduction of a soft ear tag that would lead to a total of 1000 new settings ranging from maternity care to school health services. The result is only 100 new settings in the municipalities. So it has not been the increase that was announced. We know that the maternity guidelines around the country are not being followed. We also know that the Health and School Health Services Officer is not being followed. The reason why there are too few resources. We simply don't have a health service for the very young people who are offensive that they can go home to people, as they want them to go out and do group teaching, as they want. It's just too few people. There are currently more than 1000 health sisters and midwives missing to be able to cope with this in Norway. That's why SV suggests stepping up this whole field to meet this challenge, so that one gets services that can actually do the job they're required to do. It is in this light that we must see the proposals of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 and 2 are largely about strengthening local authorities' responsibilities in helping and following up children with challenges. The two proposals support SV. We experience it as a proposal to strengthen the rights of children through a tightening. When it comes to the last thing, we're not exactly against it. But we see this in the light of all the tasks that health and school services have today. It is a major and comprehensive measure that all children at all health services should have to undress, completely independent of the assessment made by those who are the professional health workers. It'll be such an intervention in their assessments and their time use that we don't want to go in for it. And we also ask questions about the tearful concern the Progress Party has here, when it doesn't show up in the corresponding bet when it comes to school services and health stations. There is a marked difference between the two positions. That is why I have some doubts about the intention behind this proposal. We therefore support the proposal No. 1 and 2, but against this background, it is against proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e968	Then the president perceives that Knag Fylkesnes took up the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e973	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e979	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e984	The right of children to health control is clarified in the Patient and User Rights Act. At the same time, parents have an obligation to contribute to the participation of the child in health controls. Nevertheless, I have met many children and young people who say that they have lived a life of carelessness, violence and abuse for many years, without anyone knowing. The main reason is often that these children do not participate in the same things as other children, and they do not attend the hours at the health centre. I've talked to many health sisters, and I've asked them all about what they're doing with the kids who never show up. The answer is very different. Some municipalities do a lot of work to find these children, but many municipalities do nothing. That's why I call these children the forgotten children. This proposal for a representative is about the forgotten children. Although all the parties have the same concern as the Progress Party, none of the parties are willing to join us, even though SV has now announced that they will support parts of this. I really appreciate that. It refers to many good intentions and plans, but all these are about the children who actually meet. Nothing is about the forgotten children. In guidelines and laws, it says ‘should’ and ‘can’ – not ‘shall’. Therefore, we will continue to encounter children who are going to tell us that no one saw them, so they lived in misery and violence for so many years, therefore the damage was allowed to become so great. This makes me both sad and angry. The Committee points out that the Health Directorate’s guidelines on health centre and school health provide strong recommendations that the health centre should have procedures to follow up parents and children who are absent from agreed health consultations and who cancel or change agreed hours repeatedly. Again: it is recommended. The Committee points out that health centres are in a unique situation when they meet the vast majority of children in Norway — most of them. However, some people are reluctant to carry out health checks, and the Committee stresses that in many cases this is more vulnerable to care failure than other children, and that the public then has an additional responsibility to follow up. The Committee considers that municipalities need to ensure good systems and procedures so that all children are followed up, but no changes are proposed to this effect. The Committee further states that it is the responsibility of health centres to prevent and detect sexual mutilation, violence and abuse in children. The Committee therefore considers it necessary to look at further measures to ensure that all children are properly monitored and protected against unlawful acts, but does not propose any amendment. In the National Health Station and Health Service Guidelines, we read: ‘The health sister and other health-care centre personnel shall be aware of any circumstances that may indicate that the child is subject to violence, abuse or care failure and shall observe the child and the family during the consultations in the health-care centre programme in order to avert and detect such conditions. [[...]] Where there is reason to believe that children are being abused at home or are subjected to other forms of serious care failure, or when the child is showing persistent and serious behavioural difficulties, the staff at the health centre shall notify the protection of the child.» The problem with these good intentions is that it will be impossible to follow up when the child never meets at the health centre. Today’s practice means that most children have been at the health centre up to 14 times, as recommended from zero to five years of age, while others have never again participated. The new national professional guideline further specifies: ‘In order to avert and detect violence, abuse and care failure, the health centre should: clothe completely with the children at all consultations and look for bruises and other signs of injury.’ [[...]] Again, "should". The Party agrees that the guidelines are clear on the importance of children’s stripping off. The problem again is that the individual health care sister can choose for herself whether he or she thinks this is important. The Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left point out that although both the municipality and the child's relatives have responsibilities in relation to health care, practice shows that some children are completely hidden from the public until school age. The Party notes that the other parties recognise that not all children are caught, and the same parties are also uncertain whether the new technical guidelines will actually contribute to changing practices. They therefore promote a proposal asking the government to follow closely if the new national guidelines for health and school health services change current practice. The Progress Party shares this concern and will subsidly support this proposal. And a quick reply to SV in the end: I think SV needs to take a small count of the number of new health sisters in the last years before they make their claims. I take this into account the proposals made by the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1035	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1040	I would like to begin by commending the Progress Party for promoting this proposal. I have no reason to doubt their motives to discuss early efforts for children and to expose violence and abuse. It's taking kids seriously. As the committee has worked on this matter, I would say that it has been marked by, as the representative of Kjeonas Kjos was involved, uncertainty in the other parties. But it's also with the background that there's a lack of research here, and we need more of that. We have to take that seriously. So there's a little bit of this uncertainty, a little disagreement about what kind of instruments we're going to use. Among other things, dressing all children up to 10 years of age naked is the appropriate instrument. To what extent it exposes sexual abuse, there are discussions about it. To give the municipalities more clear responsibility for following up the children who do not meet: one thing is that they do not meet, but midwives and health sisters also have the opportunity to visit the home. They're the only health professionals that have that access, and that's something they can do to a greater extent. It has to do with providing resources and also having capacity. When the Socialist Left Party criticises the majority for not employing more people in the health services and more midwives, they radically block the criticism, for the number has increased considerably. It's put more than one billion dollars into those services over the last four years. We have not received the latest up-to-date figures for 2016 and 2017, but there have been many more health sisters, midwives and psychologists in the municipalities. But we have a way to go. We need to increase the capacity of both school health services, health centres and midwives. So this majority has also done a lot in terms of violence and abuse against children. We've strengthened the role of children's houses, and we're going to have more pediatricians. So there's a lot that's happened in recent years. There has been a great effort and escalation in these areas during today's majority, as opposed to what it was in the eight red-green years. For the left, we have written comments that we want pilots to add the four-year controls to the kindergartens. Most kids go there today. We have had a completely different everyday life for children, and it must also be taken into account by the municipalities – that in recent years we have had full child care coverage, and that observing children in their usual environment can be a complement to inviting children and parents into an office. Facilitating kindergartens, bringing in more areas of expertise and health professionals, such as audiographs and opticians, we believe is important and correct. We hope that's a discussion we can focus on in the future. Making four-year controls in settings where children live is important. We see some municipalities that have started this. Some municipalities have also established families' houses and strengthen the overall effort around early work and families with children. The competence of kindergartens is also important, teaching kindergarten staff about body and emotions, and that it is also an arena to expose violence and abuse and to create a good and safe childhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1055	Little is as doubtful as the certainty that kids are being attacked, and that we can't see them, can't help them, can't intervene and give them security and rescue them. It's despairing and frustrating. The question is how do we find these kids, and what means do the authorities have to use to save them? I'm willing to go far. Today, municipalities are required by the Health and Care Services Act to provide health and care services to all residents of the municipality, regardless of their age. The right of children to health control is clarified in the Patient and User Rights Act and parents are obliged to contribute to the participation of the child in health controls. Some young people, however, do not come to health inspection and are not followed up. The Judicial Committee was concerned with the same issue during the work on the escalation plan against violence against children. The majority of the population then decided: ‘The government is asked to facilitate that in cases where supervisors do not participate in children’s control/home visits and where the health centre has actively tried to get in touch with the family, health centres shall report concerns to the child protection service.’ The Judicial Committee emphasises the need for health centres to have procedures to follow up young people and officers who do not meet for control or facilitate home visits. The Patient and User Rights Act provides that health and care services may require parents to assist the child in health control. At present, health and care services have no sanctioning powers if their parents do not comply with this obligation to provide assistance, but must then assess whether the child protection service should be informed if there are grounds for doing so. Here we have a lot of legislation: the Health Personnel Act § 33 on information obligations for the Child Protection Service and Chapter 4 of the Child Protection Act on specific measures and Chapter 6 on information rights. These are important legislative texts that need to be followed up in practice. That's why Stortinget took a decision asking the government to ensure that this happens. The Judicial Committee also referred to new national guidelines for health and school health services and that these included: Consider how the service should be followed up for families who do not attend consultations with their children. If a child repeatedly fails to attend health studies, there may in some cases be concerns. The Directorate-General for Health provides guidance on how the service should handle such cases. We, in the majority of the Health Committee, stress in the wording the strong recommendation of the guidelines to ask children and parents about violence and the general focus of the guidelines on detecting and averting violence, abuse and care failure. We also stress the need to strengthen the health centre with more staff. The Christian People's Party has wanted, and will in the future, earmark funds for it. Further resources and more competence in violence and abuse must be put in place to ensure that more families in the risk zone and more children and young people who are exposed to violence and abuse are captured. Strengthening cooperation between health and other services is also important, and, as Mr Kjeseth said, both kindergarten and other staff can be involved in seeing the young people who meet. The majority of the Health Committee stresses that it is essential that the new technical guidelines contribute to the capture of more children exposed to violence and abuse. We believe that the government needs to monitor closely whether the new guidelines change current practices and whether more children are actually caught up in the new guidelines. On this basis, the majority are promoting this proposal. Today, the Christian People's Party does not support the proposal of the Advance Party in Stortingen to legitimise the requirement that examinations at the health stations of the smallest are carried out without clothing. The Christian People's Party believes it's going too far. Most kids, fortunately, I would say, have a natural relationship to body and nudity. But not everyone has it, and it varies with the child's age if they feel that it's hard to undress or not. The individual assessment I believe professionals at health centres, with education and experience in working with children, have to do. The professional guidelines provide good guidance and room for very good professional judgement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1082	Thanks to the last speaker for a great article. I can stand behind a lot of what was said there. So it was interesting to hear the representative of the Socialist Left Party, who likes to swing in when we have a health debate, and again gives us completely wrong information. Only in 2014 there were 112 new health sisters, in 2015 there were 135, and we know that this continues, but we haven't got the COSTRA numbers yet. So the development that SV here describes is not right. The government and our cooperation parties have granted more than one billion dollars only to new health sisters in the municipalities. We all agree that no one should be subjected to violence or abuse, neither children nor adults. Health centres and school health services are an important part of prevention work in Norway, and this has been significantly strengthened during this period. Today, all children up to 10 years of age are called into permanent health checks. The essence of the proposal we are considering here is that it should be compulsory for the study to be carried out and that it should be carried out with the clothes off. So we are invited to ask for a law that says that all children should be checked and weighed naked until they are 10 years old. Health and school health services are based on volunteering. Trust is essential for a low-threshold service to work on health promotion and prevention and to take early action. This proposal does not reflect trust policy. Sexual harassment, violence and child abuse are serious acts. Society is responsible for following up the most vulnerable in society. The question is which instruments are most appropriate. The new professional guidelines for health and school health care provide a great many aspects of this. Among other things, there are strong leads for follow-up services, such as home visits and childcare notifications. For most people it seems offensive to have to dress completely for an investigation, of course also for children. For some, the requirement may be equated with coercion. In addition, when one wants to make the study mandatory, it is compulsory. We have listened with interest to the consultation by the Country Group of Health Sisters. They are strongly critical of the proposal and say: ‘Examination of genital organs by humans often unknown to children and without a particular reason may be classified as a new infringement. Postponing all children for the purpose of finding the few children to whom it applies is inappropriate." According to the Act on Patient and User Rights, children are entitled to the necessary health care, including: in the form of health checks. Parents have a clear obligation under the law to contribute to the participation of the child in health control. Health professionals have a self-employed duty to act if there is reason to believe that a child is being abused or is subjected to serious care failure. We in the Right believe that the existing procedures and the existing legislation are good, and we do not want to support the proposals promoted in Document 8:65 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1103	It's a little special, because there's one government party that brings up a matter of health policy that their own government councils don't agree with. But the intention behind it may all be in: It is important to have measures to prevent gender mutilation, violence and abuse. It is an extremely important area, and that a reference to the activities of the health centre in that work is also very important. The point of progress proposed in the proposal is that one should receive a legislative proposal that health checks for children aged zero to 10 years should be compulsory and that checks should be carried out by weighing and testing without clothing. Unless the child is regularly followed up by the health care system for other reasons, all children and family members must meet with the regular controls and it must be stipulated that the municipalities should be responsible for following up children who do not meet for mandatory health control. I would first like to stress that there is not a major problem in Norway that children and families do not attend the health centre. According to the Central Statistical Office, 98 pst. by all children up to control at the health centre in the first year and continued until school start. That's a very high number. The proposal is based on the idea that families can use religion and culture as an excuse not to meet health checks through schools or health centres. I would like to ask: does the Progress Party know that this is the big problem? What if there may be family members with problems such as mental illness, drug problems, birth depression — there are many reasons why they do not meet. Just to name religion and culture, I'm reacting to something. The main discussion here is whether health investigations should be compulsory. The country’s health sister group so early in hearing that health investigations in Norway are today consent-based. The Health Minister states in his reply that all health care — in the health centre, in the school health centre — is based on provision and volunteering. The services are booming in the population. The Council of State writes to the Committee that he believes that ‘the confidence of the population has to do with the voluntary nature of the offer’. And on the other hand, ‘Trusting the service is, in my view, essential for it to remain a low-threshold service and’ — as Höie writes that the health centre should be able to do — ‘to fulfil its societal mission of health promotion and prevention and early action’. I've rarely been more in agreement with the Council of State in one matter. It is unlikely that it is important for health services to maintain that the supply is based on volunteering and trust. It is very rare that we legislate something that can be reminiscent of coercion. We have to trust that the professionals out there are doing the best they can to the patients and the kids they have, who are all different. At the same time, we have a system today that allows one to reach out until they postpone the families. It's also a clear responsibility at the health centre to reach those kids and the families who don't meet, but it's in the defence requirement they have today, and it doesn't take a law to achieve it. I note that the Progress Party has changed its proposals. Now they don't suggest making it mandatory, they don't suggest making it compulsory for all kids to dress up to 10 years, but it's for the smallest children. This is to open doors, because that's how the services work today. To criticise the fact that one of the professional guidelines does not use the words "must" and "shall", it is to say that it is not the way we make professional guidelines. In all policies related to professional development, they use a wide range of approaches, but services read that this is in a way a professional standard that they should try to meet. It trusts the Center Party and will therefore not vote for the suggestions in its configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1130	The government's objective is that no one should be subjected to violence and abuse. The size of the population has recently adopted the Rape Plan against violence and abuse, as this government has presented. Health and school health services are a very important lowthreshold service with a high population turnover. The government has significantly strengthened this service in recent years by nearly one billion kroner at the end of 2017. All studies and health care services are based on volunteering. The confidence that the population shows by using the service, I think it's about the voluntary nature of the offer. Trust is essential for a low-threshold service to work on health promotion and prevention and to take early action. I think we have good systems to reach vulnerable families and families that don't meet when they're called. Children are entitled to the necessary health care under the Patient and User Rights Act in the municipality in which the child lives or is temporarily resident, for example. health control. Parents have a clear obligation to contribute to the participation of the child in such a health check. Health professionals are obliged to carry out their work in accordance with the requirements of professional care and care that can be expected from the qualifications of health professionals, the nature of the work and the situation of other persons. If a health professional has reason to believe that a child is being abused or is suffering from a serious care failure, the obligation to provide information concerning the protection of children shall apply. Health professionals are also subject to the sexual mutilation law on grounds of suspicion that sexual mutilation may occur. Regardless of the rules on professional secrecy, health professionals are then obliged to notify the protection of children or the police. The choice of instruments requires an assessment of the potential negative impact of seemingly effective measures. Representatives propose that permanent checks on children from zero to 10 years of age offered by health centres should become mandatory. They also suggest that children up to 10 years of age should strip off by examination, and not just children up to 2 years of age, as today. For many slightly larger children, it could be felt as hard to undress by a study, and for some it will be felt as if coerced. The Health Station and School Health Guidelines have provided a good tool for health professionals working with pregnant women and children, young people and their families. In the common part of the guidelines in Chapter Health Station 0 to 5 years, there are strong indications of home visits as a follow-up offer to families with an increased need. It is also recommended that the child be registered in follow-up groups and that the child be undressed by consultation so that one can look for bruises and injuries. At the same time, account shall be taken of the bloating skills of each child as it grows older. The Health Directorate is now reviewing offers to schoolchildren and young people with a view to publishing the most recent sections of the professional guidelines in 2017. The municipality shall prevent sickness, injury, suffering and disability and provide the necessary health and care services. However, I consider that there is a need to clarify the responsibilities of services to help prevent and detect violence and sexual abuse. Proposals for such clarification in several central health laws shall be dealt with in the Storting in a short time. This provision includes management at all levels, and also includes responsibilities to facilitate the ability of the service to prevent, detect and avert violence and sexual abuse. I would like to propose a corresponding clarification in the regulation on health care and school health, and this is planned to be sent to the hearing before the summer. It is an objective to develop a culture in which the prevention, detection and averting of violence and sexual abuse is an integral part of the provision of health and care services. In this way, you can become better at catching vulnerable children and families. The legislative proposal will further strengthen this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1152	I would just like to make a few comments on things that have emerged in the debate. First to Sveinung Stensland: it's a little important for me to stress that we haven't suggested investigating children's sexual organs, and I think that's also a look if a reader's case, that it's not about it. Then Kjersti Toppe has shown that it's 98 pst. appearing at the health centre. It's a very high number, it's amazing, but that means it's 2 pst. Which we don't reach, and that's the two percent I'm busy with. It wouldn't have been such a very big job catching them, because some of the two percent are being followed up in other parts of the healthcare system because they have serious injuries or are chronically ill. Top question is also whether I know that religion and culture are one of the main problems. One of those who have been involved in designing the proposal is a health sister in Oslo, and for Oslo this applies, but I can't go so well that it's valid for the whole country. Finally, Kjersti Toppe says that we are knocking open doors. Then I just have to stress that what we're proposing is law enforcement. What we have today is guidelines, and there is a difference between laws and guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1168	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1187	The issue we are dealing with now concerns the National Audit Office’s examination of medical code practices in healthcare companies. Behind this somewhat bureaucratic heading is a very important framework for how we finance our hospital services around the country and the beach. One might say that what the committee's task is to comment on the Riksrevision's findings on the code practices that take place throughout Norway, based on the system we have. I think that an almost unanimous attitude must be read there that we do not find the time to problematize whether we like ISF – effort-driven funding – or not, whether we are very excited about it. Personally, I think you go in the right direction when you reward activity. But the Central Party has found that this is the case: it is being promoted a proposal for a decision today that the Storting should wind up the ISF, of course with the help of the government, as soon as possible. I'm sure the Center Party will give an excellent reason for that, but this is some of the explanation that the Center Party is largely outside of what the rest of the Committee has agreed on, which is the task today, namely to assess the review of code practices by the National Audit Office. That's what they say. Thus, the aim of the study has been to explain how healthcare companies ensure that medical codes can be used for governance and funding. Furthermore, the study has highlighted how the regional health businesses, the Health Directorate and the e-Health Directorate discharge their responsibilities to contribute to a good code quality. The majority of the Committee – will be, then – believes that good functioning of the medical coding system is essential for the governance and funding of healthcare undertakings. In addition, medical coding provides the community with an overview of diseases in the population and how the occurrence of the diseases varies. The same majority indicate that the National Audit Office’s description of medical codes is a key input into the DRG system – the DRG provides diagnostic-related groups – used to finance health enterprises through input-driven funding. Regional health enterprises received over 30 billion in the previous financial year. kr through this grant, which is distributed downwards in the system to health businesses. The grant shall cover approx. half of the funding for somatic treatment expenditure by health establishments. Payments through the ISF shall reflect real treatment activity, which requires good quality medical coding. Low internal control may result in a risk of increased performance being weighted more than correct coding. We have, on one occasion in the Week some years ago, faced situations where it was deliberately incorrect coding, but fortunately we can say that this review does not show that there are some systematic miscoding that is due to a desire to get more money than you are entitled to. Like the National Audit Office, the majority would point out that the information used by healthcare companies to plan their own activities and compare their own results with those of others is based on medical coding. All health enterprises use DRG credits as a governance indicator, and most health enterprises distribute the ISF refund downwards in their activities on the basis of this information base. The Committee is aware that the codes are used by many actors for different purposes and that the quality of the code is essential for the proper adoption of decisions. When the medical codes give a correct description of the health care provided at each hospital stay, the codes together will be able to tell a statistical history of patient-oriented activity in all of our hospitals and how the health status of the population develops. The Committee expressed its concern at the main findings of the Riksrevision report through its recommendation. They indicate that there is a weak quality of medical coding, which in turn may have had negative consequences for the management and financing of the specialist healthcare service. One important reason is that health businesses do not follow code quality well enough and that the Directorate for eHealth guidance and tools do not adequately support the code work of health establishments. The Committee refers to the study which reveals that there are unsatisfactory differences between the medical codes for conditions reported to the Norwegian patient registry and the information that can be read from the examined patient records, including: with the effect that patient statistics become less reliable. An overall committee recalls that the Riksrevision studies have also shown in the past that health companies do not have sufficient quality in coding. However, the range of code audits is limited and, in isolation, does not provide a basis for drawing far too blatant conclusions on the quality of all healthcare establishments, but the study has taken care of patients who were examined and treated in most hospitals. In addition, when the study shows that internal control is weak, the Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that there is reason to believe that the code quality is too low, also in hospitals and for patient groups other than those studied. The majority of the Committee has expressed concern at the negative effects on patient statistics due to the poor follow-up of the quality of the code by health enterprises. Health business management shall establish systems to provide adequate code quality. Although health enterprises have implemented some measures in recent years, many enterprises remain behind in code work. The Committee points out that the study has identified the following factors that have a significant impact on code quality: there are questions as to whether doctors have knowledge of medical coding, whether healthcare companies supervise the codes set by doctors, and whether clear management promotes good code practices and good attitudes in the individual services. The Committee points out that the management of healthcare undertakings is to ensure that employees have knowledge and skills in implementing medical coding. The Committee has noted the findings of the report that many doctors lack knowledge of the principles of correct encoding and of the requirements for documentation in the journal to report the status of the Norwegian patient registry. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Centre Party, base the report on the fact that training in many health care establishments is directed towards turnaround doctors and possibly new doctors, while experienced doctors receive little knowledge beyond the career cycle. The majority of the Committee expresses concern that the code revision shows that there are many errors that are not identified and corrected through quality assurance. The audit included: many codes for non-conforming states have been found in the journal, and an explanation of this may be that quality assurance in many departments is more focused on ensuring the legitimate income of health enterprises than ensuring proper patient statistics – without approaching abuse in the example I mentioned earlier. The majority have noted that the study may indicate that written procedures are not sufficient to achieve code quality and that management must be required to create attitudes of employees regarding the importance of code quality, both for society and for the institution concerned, not least by making visible to doctors the wide range of applications the codes have, in addition to financing their health business. When the Riksrevision claims that health businesses have overall a weak follow-up to code quality, this majority in the Committee expresses the expectation that management identifies weaknesses in the control environment, adopts appropriate measures and shows interest in, and motivates, improved code work. Having regard to the factual description, the Committee would also point out that the Directorate for eHealth tools and guidance is too small to build up under the code work of health establishments. The Directorate for E-Health’s task is to continuously review the codes and provide guidance to the sector in the practice of medical coding legislation. The conclusions drawn by the Committee are that it presupposes that, in accordance with the recommendation of the National Audit Office, through the Ministry as responsible, future emphasis is placed on its governance: health establishments facilitate better medical coding by providing employees with up-to-date knowledge of coding and record-keeping requirements; awareness of regional health enterprises in order to ensure good and consistent medical coding; promoting good code practices and the development of support tools by the eHealth Directorate that the Directorate for eHealth and the regional health establishments promote code quality and uniform coding.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1249	Here is all possible reason for me to refer to the broad review of the case by the rapporteur, and what the rapporteur has now said from the spokesperson of the Stortinge, is, in many respects, also in the view of the Workers' Party. I just have a couple of references, which I want to add. One is that, as the rapporteur said quite correctly, the Labour Party would not or would not address the issue of the future of the ISF system, because we believe in principle that it is a good order. But I want to give the Council of State a very clear signal through the examination of this matter that it is absolutely necessary for the Ministry, the Directorate and the health companies to take this report and the conclusions of the Committee seriously, because if we get a trend towards not being able to correct the errors and deficiencies pointed out by the National Audit Office in this report, it becomes absolutely necessary for all the political authorities to see whether this way of financing, this way of code, is correct – and fair, I would add. It's embedded in the weaknesses that this report shows us, that it's not just a challenge in terms of how hospitals prioritize their earnings, but it can also affect patient treatment, in the sense that the diagnosis and the relationship between what's called the epicrisis and the coding is not correct. In this case, it is the most serious thing on the occasion of the case: if it creates confusion and results in the treatment not being relevant in the case in question. In addition, it is true, as the centre party says, but the case rapporteur was not in, but where I want to join the centre party, that it is clear from this report when a reader reads it in the context – and it is large and full, as it always is – that it is a very bureaucratic system. It's a system that puts our health workers, especially the doctors, across the country, wherever they are, a lot of bureaucratic work, and there's confusion, naturally, because it's hard to properly classify everything. That's the first thing I wanted to underline. The second is, of course, – it is not clear in the Riksrevision report, and therefore one should be careful with the words on this point, including from my point of view – that if the coding system is misused for funding purposes, and not used to really produce statistics to provide an overview of the diseases and the spread of disease, it is a serious matter. And that's not what the National Audit Office's report says, but it's up to the Council of State to think of that idea that it's happening. We've seen some examples that this might have been the case. I will not say that it is widespread, but it is not possible to free myself entirely from suspicion. Therefore, it is very important that all the overall political authorities supporting this scheme ensure that its mentality is actually that it should function properly, namely that there should be a code system that correctly pays for the work done by the hospital or department, but on the other hand, it should not be such as to invite abuse and funding on an unaccountable and legitimate basis. I repeat that is not what the Riksrevision says, but I say that it is not entirely possible to free itself from the suspicion that this may be the case. The last thing I want to comment on is what does not come out of the majority comment, but that comes out of the Central Party's comment, and that -- at least I want to say it that way -- I assume that the Council of State has an opinion about. It is whether this was not a scheme intended to finance health businesses, and not necessarily to result in – I kept saying – the income going down to the hospitals and even to the departments. It is in the case of a practice which then results in departments and hospitals in such a way as to facilitate their receipts if they have good results, as it says. It is in the case of one side of this that I ask the Council of State to be aware of, because it is a proper point of reference, I think, in the comment from the Central Party, that is not in the majority opinion, but I would also like to say that I am at least calling for a view on it from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1261	It's a serious report, and the Center Party has chosen to go into the topic thoroughly. I noticed with great interest the representative of Kolberg's posts and his wish that the Council of State would go thoroughly into the issues he raised, which I shall elaborate on. The representative Martin Kolberg referred to the fact that the ISF scheme was basically a good arrangement, while he made a number of references to the extent to which it is possible to follow up what he called a good order. When the representative of Kolberg said that one had to correct the error, there is something that everyone agrees on, but as the representative said: When a system runs down at department level, there will be a clear economic motive for the individual hospital departments to code in such a way that they get more money. Thus, it is – I would say – almost impossible to avoid what is called errors here. For what is the essence of today’s code practice, it is that it is brought down to the clinic and department level. It has a direct impact on economic performance at the clinic and department level. Money is controlled by diagnosis, and diagnosis is governed by money. It's basically completely fundamentally wrong. The aim of the Riksrevision study was to illustrate how healthcare companies ensure that medical codes can be used for governance and funding. The central party believes that the report should lead to a major political discussion as to whether it is at all possible or appropriate to use medical codes for the management and financing of the patient offer in Norwegian hospitals. We believe that the most important thing to do with the use of medical codes is to get an overview of diseases in the population and knowledge of how diseases vary with time and place. Based on this knowledge, one could dimension and develop healthcare in a direction that allows even more people to get the best prevention and treatment of suffering, and that this could bring us closer to the goal of equivalent healthcare for all, regardless of income or background, i.e. that one should get an overview of the health status of the population and dimension the provision of health, at the same time as the individual patient should be properly informed of what is wrong with him and what is being done with him, as evidenced by the epicrisis. We will clarify, as the representative of Kolberg pointed out, that it was never meant that the ISF was introduced into the specialist healthcare service, that the method of funding should be continued at the level of health enterprises, the level of hospitals, the level of clinics and departments. It was only meant as a method of financing from the department and down to the regional health establishments. I hope the Council of State answers that question. ISF — despite professional recommendations — has now been extended to mental health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised drug treatment (TSB). That's wrong. When we see what problems this poses in the somatic healthcare system, one can only imagine what challenges it poses in the field of psychiatry. We from the Central Party say, like the National Audit Office, that the main findings on weak code quality are worrying because it has unfortunate consequences and provides poor knowledge of the need for healthcare and makes it more difficult to plan the health service. Obviously, we have to strive for a proper code practice based on the medical situation and on the patient’s course. Doctors need to be trained in the code system, and we have to assume that healthcare companies are responsible for this. At the same time, the Central Party acknowledges that the system will always invite errors and distortions as long as the ISF is so strongly linked to the diagnostic codes and as long as the healthcare companies allow the ISF to continue down to the clinic or department level. My colleague Kjersti Toppe wrote an article in the Official Journal of Bergen on 24 July 2014 and I want to develop something from there. In 2013 it was 60 p.m. of the newborns of Haukeland University Hospital diagnosed for nutritional disorders. In the Oslo hospital only received 0.5 pst. the same diagnosis. But Toppe refuses to believe that newborn Westerners are much worse at taking in food than newborn Easterners. She writes: «The diagnosis code P92 triggers $12,000 in payment against $6,000 for infants without such diagnosis is a fact. When more than half of the newborns in the west get the diagnosis code P92, the problem of nutrition problems in the newborn, it testifies to a sick diagnostic system, not sick babies. How much time did yellowing and breast - feeding problems occur in day - old babies, a diagnosis? That is a reality! The first days of life most people struggle with nutrition, some more and some less. It is necessary, natural and far from any disease. The time between birth and repatriation in Haukeland Women's clicks is now only 48 hours. During that time, doctors have to assess whether or not nutrition is actually problematic. But it takes, as you know, longer than 48 hours before breast-feeding gets started well. In Dagsnytt 18 on 16.07., Klinikkoverdörd mother Gabrielsen informed that mothers with children who are diagnosed with P92 will be given an extra day in the maternity ward. But it's an unacceptable medical practice if Haukeland University Hospitals finance extra day-to-day caregivers by diagnosing healthy infants. The health care system shall not carry out any deliberate overdiagnosis. But the coding system is now inviting not only private hospitals, but also public hospitals, to be drivers of morbidity." It was an example of how this turns out. There are many, many of them, and the Riksrevision report has revealed major discrepancies between medical codes for reported states and information in the examined patient records. We've noticed that a majority of the departments got a total reduction in the number of DRG points for the examined stays after the code revision. So it's made clear, as opposed to what Mr Kolberg's representative had to say, that one here got a reduction in DRG points. And when you get a reduction in DRG, you get less money. This is because the majority of the stays were changed from a complicated DRG to an uncomplicated DRG. A stay in a complex DRG gives greater reimbursement from the country. The central party believes that the National Audit Office's report must have the consequence that it is no longer, as I said, in the case of Norwegian hospitals that money is controlled by diagnosis, and diagnosis is governed by money. The development is wrong, but the responsibility lies in Stortinget. The size has accepted a trend in which the hospital economy is directly affected by the price of patients and therefore by the diagnosis and treatment of patients. With the introduction of an order-executive model, input-driven funding, ISF, and diagnostic-related groups, i.e. DRG, all patients and patient treatments are categorised, compared and precisely coded and priced. Today’s system is a prerequisite for the government to facilitate the free choice of treatment in all private hospitals in Norway or in the EEA region. Divicious professionals need to spend their working hours on patients and ensure good treatment, not to play hospital stores, where women and newborns are priced with their bureaucracy, coding and reporting. Intervention-driven financing should therefore be liquidated, not increased, as provided by the government. The diagnostic system must not be directly linked to performance. One must give priority to patients with the greatest needs, not to those who earn the most. It is therefore necessary to provide a framework for the financing of hospitals. On that basis, the Central Party shall promote its four proposals in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1293	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1298	The National Audit Office’s study on medical code practices in healthcare establishments covers an important area. The quality of the medical coding is important for how precisely such information can be used in the development of services. The findings in the study support the importance of having attention to medical code practices. All actors responsible for medical coding must contribute to ensuring good quality of statistics. The Court of Auditors has, among other things: explains how the Regional Health Enterprises, the Health Directorate and the e-Health Directorate discharge their responsibilities to contribute to good code quality. It is positive that the Riksrevision study, which forms the basis for the recommendations, is designed to provide a basis for learning and transfer of experience. In particular, an in-depth study has been carried out in some hospital wards to identify the characteristics and examples of good code practices from which departments and health businesses can learn. The Court of Auditors points out, inter alia: that an important measure to improve code quality in health enterprises is to increase knowledge of coding by health professionals as codes. I agree that this is important. Healthcare professionals who register codes must have a good knowledge of the code works and the different code works rules so that they choose correctly when registering codes. The Directorate for eHealth is responsible for managing national health code plants. As the National Audit Office points out, the Directorate for eHealth is working on projects and actions such as: shall contribute to standardised coding and terminology. An expected gain is better quality of medical coding. I am aware that the Directorate for e-Health recently launched a new e-learning course in coding. The goal is, among others: improving the coding skills of health professionals. Health companies are responsible for submitting information that is correct and relevant to the treatment patients receive to the Norwegian Patient Register. Regional health enterprises have the overall responsibility for reporting activities by their health enterprises in line with the assumptions. This includes, inter alia: the responsibility for medical coding in line with the national code guide and the provisions of the legislation. I will – as I have also written earlier, and as the Committee points out in its position – follow up the studies and recommendations of the National Audit Office in the governance dialogue with regional health companies. Medical coding is absolutely necessary for several reasons. It is important to have an overview of the activity in hospitals. It is important to have an overview of the types of treatment provided in hospitals, also in order to plan and develop services in line with the patient’s needs. It also provides a basis for input-driven funding. The DRG mechanism, which has been in the process of debate, and its impact on the response-driven funding, is not intended to finance a single hospital unit. There are some DRG codes at a level that allow larger units to be financed in this way. This is also something that is communicated all the way, both from the department and from the Health Directorate, against the service. It's also how I've started quite a lot of development work in this area to develop what's called cost-per-patient health care systems, so that a more real overview of what it's actually cost is. The DRG system is, as I said, at an overall level. The second is to look at how one can finance more coherent healthcare and not, for example, the individual intervention experienced by a patient — this in order to improve this system as well. It's a work that the Health Directorate and the Health Regions are now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1318	I'm not going to spend that long. The reason why I take the floor is a statement by the representative Lundteg, which should not be quite contradictory, and that was, as I perceived, ‘diagnosis is governed by money’. It cannot be interpreted as anything but a violent attack on the system – it is one thing. Something else is that it's an attack on the practice of living people in health care every day, a profession, whether it's a doctor or other health care professional, who, throughout their training, has also had a solid professional ethics that the greatest thing they do is to save lives, it's to relieve pain, and it's to promote health for everyone who gets in touch with them. That's what controls the tens of thousands of health workers out in health businesses and in the departments, and it's completely unworthy to say that their diagnosis is governed by money. So I would like to encourage the representative Lundtigen to clarify this or to say to anyone that it was unthinkable. The attack on the ISF mechanism referred to in the report cannot be used as an attack on input-driven funding. It can, on the other hand, be used for the opposite. It's a system that works pretty well and that gives great knowledge. And when I hear that the principle that this is going to happen to those who treat, at department level, is also affected, you break with an elementary insight into just the quality of data, and there is data capture at the source, where otherwise it can be done without other than marginal extra work, when you have to record and update patient records and epicrisis. I believe that the whole spirit and content of the report is based on the fact that the system is working well, but that what is required of all other systems operated by people in a day-to-day manner is a caretaker thing that is a natural expectation of in many of the working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1328	I take the floor to comment on both the posts of the representative Tetzschner and the posts of the Council of State. It was quite precise, what I said – and which was commented on in the comments of the representative Tetzschner – that money is controlled by diagnosis, and that diagnosis is governed by money. There was no error statement from my side. It is quite correct that it is a very powerful attack on the whole scheme – quite correctly understood. But I also said that the system invites to it, so that the people who work in our hospitals, who have a high level of professional ethics, who are trained for it, train up to ease pain and train up to everything that the representative Tetzschner said, will work within a system that is such that if in case of doubt one chooses one or the other diagnosis, one has a large space of action, and one can choose diagnosis that gives high pay. I drew up the example of the newborns at Haukeland University Hospital. It's a fact: in 2013 60 pst. of the newborns in Haukeland diagnosed with nutritional disorders, while in the Oslo hospitals it was 0.5 pst. with the same diagnosis. This is a precise description of the problem. This is something the professionals see as a major challenge, and it is to over-target set up a so-called billing committee to look at this and report in. These aren't theories. This is the reality that you're in. The Council of State called for good code quality, and it's the Senter Party's ship's trailer. We are, of course, in favour of code and code practice providing learning and transfer of experience. However, the Council of State does not respond to questions about the system errors that today’s code practices lead to. You can learn as much as you want, but it's a basic system error that makes a seafarer choose codes – when you have the option – that give you the best payment. The council said it was not right to have it down at the clinic level, and that you had to have it on larger units. I want to ask you back, what larger units are you talking about? Is it in the hospital? Is it in health enterprises? The intention was to keep it at the regional health enterprise level. It's important to have good codes. It is important to learn from it, in terms of dimensioning, educating and developing health services based on what is needed. It is important to have correct codes in view of the people being treated, seafaringly, but when one connects codes with money, like one does, it goes wrong. But the underlying reason why a person does it this way is that one has a vision that a person should facilitate a greater extent of private hospitals, because this will require this code practice, and thus the state will finance it. This is a wrong development, as this report shows that something needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1342	I ask for the floor one more time because I will first join what the representative Tetzschner says, that there is really a lot of good in this system, and the Labour Party is – in principle – as such behind it. Now the representative Lundtigen has so far said these things, but it is a little surprising to me when I hear the statements of the Council of State, that the Council of State does not go into the concrete examples and challenges that we see, because there are significant weaknesses – weaknesses that indicate that this does not work as it should, and that it may be misused. It is a serious matter that it is absolutely necessary that the Council of State and the Department deal with in a more active way than I was able to hear, or at least – in my opinion – seemed to hear, when I heard intensely about what the Council of State said. The representative Lundtigen defends himself as usual in an excellent way, but it was obviously not what the representative Tetzschner said. It is the system – not the individuals in this system – that creates these situations. It is necessary and entirely relevant — without doing this for food, purely political, to say so — to ask the Council of State to come up and comment on this example from Haukeland. This is a clear example of our having a problem. I would like to hear how the Council of State is dealing with these examples that cannot be disputed, but that are facts. And as it was said, a little funny, but nevertheless relevant: it is impossible to imagine that children in the West have more difficulty in taking in food than children in the East. This is what I would like to hear from the Council of State in principle, because now we are at the heart of the matter, really, in view of the use of the system and the unfortunate outcome of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1350	The reason why I take the floor is the post of the representative Lundteg, who again has a crusade against all the existing ones, where one criticises without one coming up with a solution to what the option is. It is clear that this setting shows that, in terms of medical code practice and DRG, there is potential for improvement, and that is why this is the case. I am also convinced that it will be taken seriously, and that something will be done about it, so that we can become even better than we are today. So when it comes to the alternative, the representative is Lundtigen taus. But I guess if one wants to go away from this with medical code practice and DRG and money, one has to go back to the time when one had a framework license to hospitals. I would like to tell you a little bit about how it worked, because in 1991 to 1995, I was on the board of Haukeland Hospital. Then a framework promise was given that was independent of the activity of the hospital. At several times – at least twice – when one came after the vacation, one of them got a budget forecast – it got a budget forecast every year, but twice it got a budget forecast that showed that we had too much activity at the hospital compared to the budget we had. Then the question from the board was, what do we do to reconcile the activity with the budget we have at our disposal? That's the same answer we got every time, that we have to reduce the activity, because the budget we couldn't do anything about. The solution was to put down a bedpost or two. We usually did so so that we went to the groups where it was about pain patients, that one did not put down a bedpost that could decide life and death, but that one went to a bedpost for revmatism, etc. We did that, and then we got the activity down, and we got the budget in balance. After that, we got some bragging because we had run inside the budget. I didn't think there was any good solution. I didn't think it was a good arrangement. It may be the representative that Lundteg wants to go back to, but I don't want to, and it doesn't want the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1365	Of course, I have no premise to think anything concrete about the example Lundtigen pulled out of Bergen, in addition to saying that this whole report and our work in this area is about the continuous potential for improvement in order to get more, better and correct coding. My contribution brought forward a number of actions in this area, both from the Department and from the Directorate for eHealth and the Directorate for Health. Then one in the debate can create the impression that we have Norwegian patient registry and medical coding because we have input-driven funding. No, no, no. Had the representative Lundtigen had been able to get through to abolish input-driven funding, I would have strongly warned against abolishing the Norwegian patient registry, which gives us an overview of the activity in the hospitals and is an incredibly important basis, among other things. to plan further the service and the development of the service. This means that this issue of correct coding is important completely independent of funding. So if a code deliberately fails to influence the economy, it's against the law, and it's important that a grabber gets involved. In Norwegian healthcare we have a significant variation in treatment that is given, completely independent of this system. Norwegian health atlas, which we have established to look at the services the population receives, shows that, for example: were significantly more likely to get a shoulder surgery if you lived in Finnmark or More and Romesdal than if you lived in Oslo or Stavanger — without any clear medical indication or population composition that could explain such a variation. Variations such as phenomena and different medical practices are a challenge in the Norwegian healthcare system that we are now working hard to correct, so that one ensures that an unwarranted variation, in terms of both under- and over-treatment, is not justified, but variation is a much more correct concept to use. Then one relationship helps more than anything, and that's openness. That's exactly why we have also established Health Atlas, which now provides an overview of the consumption of day surgery. We have received a Children’s Health atlas, and several health atlases are being developed that are immediately used by the professional communities and that lead to the correction of their own practices. For those who work in healthcare, there is a main interest, which the representative Tetzschner was also concerned with: doing the best possible job on behalf of the patient. In Lundtigen's sharp attack on this system, one can be left with the impression that people are misdiagnosed and thus mistreated because of this. There is nothing I can see that there is a basis for saying, in this report or elsewhere. I don't think health professionals diagnose and treat people incorrectly as a result of this system. That there may be incorrect coding, that there may be individual cases where people deliberately code to increase the income of their own hospital or department, there are signs — and it is important to address them. And then coding is just going to be wrong because people have different opinions and different knowledge. There too, a great deal of work is now being done to ensure that health professionals doing this job have the right knowledge of which codes to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1383	Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1388	I have not said that this is the wrong treatment. I have said that it is an overdiagnosis that gives more money. I have not received a response from the Council of State to the example from Haukeland. It's, as far as I know, sent in to the Billing Board, which reports further up the system. It's quite clear that there's no deliberate code error in the sense that one makes basic mistakes, but in many cases it's a question of judgement, and that discretion is practiced in such a way that it gives the most money. The representative, Hagesetter, says that the Center Party has a crusade against everything that exists. Yes, we are for some reforms, and this is a reform we need to implement. If the representative had taken the time to read our four proposals, there are four concrete proposals that show where we stand. Suffering if we have this funding, hospital departments are now closed – which also Hagesetser referred to during his experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1396	At the end of the debate, I have to say that despite the call for clarification of its statement, which meant that Norwegian diagnosis is based on money, this has been further reinforced by two contributions from the representative of Lundtigen. So we can record that this massive attack on Norwegian doctors and other health professionals is still leading the Central Party's policy in this area. I can show that during the presentation of the report to the Control Committee, we discussed this very question, given that there could be something in the hypothesis that people, in cases of doubt, where one has an otherwise uncertain discretion, are moving in the direction that gives the most money. The answer to that was precisely that in these cases, at a systematic review, very few of them considered how many there are, there was no systematic over-reporting. Under-reporting was also recorded. This disproves the fact that people are being managed for over-treatment reasons in order to collect more money from the public. So I still believe that the Center Party is wise to reconsider its perception and not least its mistrust of the tens of thousands of people who have their work in these amazing institutions, and who operate in this system, which is of good help also to the Storting, also to the Department and to all those who are in charge of planning. We get feedback through the ISF system on where to deploy resources. It's also an auxiliary tool. It must not be left to a fully discretionary perception that someone might be more good at highlighting their needs than others. The ISF system introduces a strong element of objective assessment of the printing position of the shoe and provides the basis for several allocations in areas that, if not reached, had increased health cows. We also see through the conversion that has occurred at a transition from 40 pst. ISF funding to 50 p.m., that this Minister of Health, together with the Storting, has succeeded in bringing health cows down drastically. The results also at macro level speak for this system. Finally, you can't pretend that you're after the system when you're using an anecdotic evidence like the diagnosis between two institutions, and then you're assuming that where there's an overdose, you've been unethical. It may be that it is under-reporting elsewhere. With such a human vision, I understand that you look gloomy at life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1408	This is a very interesting national audit report, which should have had a major impact on the organisation and funding of Norwegian hospitals. It will probably not be obtained, but we have tried to make it visible in the configuration. It is clear that it actually detects what is called weak code practice and weak code quality. The majority say that then we need to strengthen the code quality. But the Riksrevision also uses words like that the system we have, where a connect diagnosis directly against economics, is not «robust». They clearly point out that at least when an ISF system is in place, it is not recommended that an ISF funding should be continued at the clinic level. When the ISF was introduced, it was never meant to go all the way down to the clinic level. There should be a form of funding between the State as a hospital owner and the regional health agency. It is the regional health services and hospitals themselves who are willing to pass it on to the clinic level. Then we get the enhanced effect that health professionals can feel that they are being monitored for what kind of diagnosis they have on the patient – not based on what is best and most correct for the patient, but on what consequences it has for the hospital economy. I would strongly like to distance myself from the debt I am hearing here that the Centre Party does not trust Norwegian Læg and Norwegian health professionals. It's a twist of this case that I think is quite special. This is part of the health care model. Now the Medical Association had its national meeting, where they actually went in to wind up the whole model. Funding is a major part of the healthcare business model, and input-driven funding is part of the market-based solution. There are many examples of legans actually being overrun by added diagnostic encoders. They're professional, they're not whole staff, but they're more economists to make sure that the loans are diagnosed in accordance with what's best for the hospital -- actually not the best for the patient. DRG, diagnostic-related groups, can have its value, because then we get information and statistics about what patients and residents are failing, and what they are looking for. There may be a basis for planning the healthcare system according to your needs. It is critical when connecting diagnosis and diagnosis-related groups to economics. That's the criticism we're addressing. If the other party believes that it is to have mistrusted the pelvis and other health professionals, then I cannot understand anything. It has nothing to do with the professional. On the contrary, I have heard many people from the health care community say exactly the opposite, that there may be obstacles to the right priorities. I have been told that the example that I have written about in the media – the example from Haukeland Hospital that almost half of the newborns were diagnosed as P92, nutritional problems – has not happened. It has actually happened, it has been a matter, it has been brought up, and it has been a reality. It is also a reality that by making that diagnosis on newborn babies, the health care unit received either NOK 5000 or NOK 8 000 extra for maternity. The report of the Riksrevisions says that it is not the first time that one has shown that it has been diagnosed and coding that has not been correct. This report says that when one went in and made changes, everyone was adjusted down. So here, more than the Center Party should have been included in the comments, and more than the Center Party should have supported the proposals – especially that one should not continue ISF funding down to the clinic level. Then a single or disunity in the degree of ISF funding in Norway, but the germ to make this so wrong, is that it is passed down to the clinic level, down to each hospital ward. That's what I mean, I'm a udder and a practice that's evolved without the Storting saying anything about it. At least the Storting could have given a clear message about this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1422	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1441	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1448	I would like to start by thanking the members of the Committee for a good cooperation. As I see it, there's a neat setting that's being presented. The different sons come out clearly, and will to the plural is clearly expressed. There are two main headings in this proposition. One is the liberalisation of evening work rules. The second is tightening up the alert code. I'm going to take them in order. According to the Work Environment Act, work is between 1 p.m. 21 a.m. 06 in the morning defined as night work. Night work is allowed if the nature of the work so requires. In companies bound by collective bargaining agreements, employers and employees who are trusted may enter into agreements on night work in addition to this. What is suggested is to make it easier to put work at the end of the day. 21 for non-working workers throughout the night. To this end, a new provision is proposed for employers and employees to enter into a written agreement to allow employees on their own initiative to carry out work between 1 p.m. 21 a.m. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox The proposal is supported by employers’ organisations such as the NHO, the KS and the Specter, as well as the academic and NITO employee organisations. The UN, the YS and the LO on their side have gone against the proposal. The proposals will be supported by a majority of the Committee, consisting of the Left, Right and the Advance Party. We are pleased that the government has followed up parts of the working time selection setting. It is important to ensure a high level of protection against uncomfortable working hours for workers. But it is also the case that the legislation has to follow in time. Developments in the labour market are such that more and more people can work flexibly and have access to available working tools at home. For these workers it may be beneficial to have some more flexibility in view of when it is allowed to work. That there should initially be a legal ban on responding to e-mails and working after 8 p.m. 21 in the evening, I think a lot of people think it's untimely. And there's also reason to think that there's a prohibition that's being slightly respected. Many people want a chance to move away from work before, for example: to spend more time with family and children, then to return to work later in the evening. There's a kind of flexibility that the law should open up to, in my view. At the same time, it is important to stress that the legislative proposal does not give employers the right to impose such work. It also does not affect the rules on sleeping time and normal working time. The majority are pleased that it is clarified in the legal text that work between 2 p.m. 21 a.m. 23 shall be agreed in writing, and not least on the initiative of the employee. I am now moving on to the proposals for tightening up the Alert Code. Int. 205 S for 2015–2016 asked the Stortinget government to set up an expert group to review the alert rules. This group is working, and I look forward to seeing the result of that work. At the same time, I am pleased that the government has already presented the things we have before us. This is a follow-up to the Inst plural comments. 207 L for 2014–2015, where one of them requested a tightening of the alert code during the processing of a new work environment law. For the Left's part, this was an important commitment to be able to support the changes. I am pleased that this work has now been completed. There is widespread support for the various proposals in the Committee. The collection of alarm rules in one chapter makes work environment laws more user-friendly. A general requirement for public authority alerting will hopefully lower the threshold for alerting. The introduction of warning protection to cover also hired workers is a significant improvement of the legislation and an important proposal. It is of great value to society that illegal and critical conditions can be brought to light, even in the case of temporary workers. In the hearing in Stortinget, the problem of whether also posted workers should have this kind of protection was raised. The majority in the committee agree that this is a problem that is worth looking at, and suggests that hopefully will bring together multiple numbers here today. So to the proposal on requirements for mandatory alert procedures. Here was the proposal from the government that it should only apply to enterprises with more than ten added. There has been a lot of discomfort here in the listening round. Several bodies have called for the requirement to apply to all establishments, irrespective of the number of establishments added. The Committee understands the desire for a broadest possible impact field, but agrees that there should be a limit because the very smallest activities normally have few or no level of internal responsibility and decision-making. The majority of the Committee feels that the requirement of ten added is somewhat high and has countries that it should be entered already by five added. Finally, I would like to include the suggestions that are part of the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1472	The representative Rotevatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1477	The Labour Party will launch a proposal in autumn 2015 on the need for stronger protection of alerts. Our suggestions were at the time of the vote of the majority. Now the government is making several similar proposals in its own proposal, together with some new proposals. In this context, I would remind you that if the majority had voted in favour of our proposals at that time, a reinforced protection of alerts could already have been in place. The government is now proposing to collect the alert paragraphs and extend the alert protection to cover the hired workers and introduce a general rule on the requirement to pay. The working party supports these proposals and notes that they were well received by the hearing authorities. Furthermore, it is proposed to tighten up the rules on internal alert procedures in enterprises and to establish an unconditional obligation to establish such procedures in enterprises with more than 10 added. We support that tightening and that there should be a limit on the size of an enterprise before this type of requirement enters into force. We still think, as the case-leader did, that the limit of ten added is somewhat high, and we are behind the plural position in the committee at a limit of five employees. In addition, it was noted that, in the same way that some other rules of the Working Environment Act do not apply to posted workers. The case-speaker, Rotevatn, thinks like us that this is problematic, and we therefore support the two proposals from the Left on this. So far, it's just wealth. But it's going to get worse, because the majority of the committee is unfortunately behind the government's proposal for increased opportunity for evening work. Cannot join the Workers Party. We share our scepticism about the proposal with LO, UNIO and YS and we point out that the Labour Inspectorate also describes a number of unfortunate consequences of the government's proposal. With a more regular shift and postponement of working time over a longer period of time, as it is added, there is reason to fear a number of negative consequences, for example. the health effects may be negative, for example: Describe the Labour Inspectorate. Furthermore, the boundaries between work and private life can be erased. The normal working day is pushed on, with consequences for opening hours, for example. Schools and kindergartens, and the expectations of late evening availability, with such working time arrangements, may put pressure on family life. In the Working Party, we are behind the model of the Working Environment Act, a strict law with wide scope for exceptions. There are already rules in the Working Environment Act that provide good flexibility, but as traditional with the Norwegian working life model, the safety valve has to be debated and agreed with the trustees. Because, among other knowledge workers, it has been quite possible to work after 8 p.m. 21.00, as the law is today, as long as they have an agreement to it. The proposal stands out as unnecessary, and there is reason to believe that this is actually motivated by a desire to reduce the cost of night work. Some of the challenges that the government says she wants to solve with this bill are that people who want such working time arrangements should not break the night ban. But we see more negative than the positive consequences of such a proposal. It is not stated that this should not imply an extension of the working day. There is therefore a risk of abuse, contrary to the government's assurance that this should not lead to employees having to work any more. Another unfortunate consequence is that one risks breaking sleep time rules. If it is to be lawful to reduce sedatives, this must be done by agreement with the trustees. The Labour Party believes that this will lead to pressure to conclude such agreements, and present challenges for the unorganised enterprises, which cannot enter into such agreements. The Government Party argues that this does not impair the protection of employees, because an individual, written agreement between employer and employee, and that only employees can take the initiative in the actual performance of the evening work in the individual case. However, we are concerned that employees' sense of loyalty to employers and colleagues can lead to that freedom of contract not being real. Workers may feel pressured to make such an appointment. So, on this background, the Labour Party cannot support the government's proposal for increased opportunities for evening work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1497	It's important to say from when things don't work at a workplace. There may be shortcomings and deficiencies in health, the environment and safety, psychosocial factors or crime and unethical behaviour. There are many examples that alerts have been crucial for the detection of unculture and crime. The Working Environment Act clearly states that the employee has the right to inform about critical aspects of the job. The law has three warning provisions, all of which came into force in 2007: the right to notify of critical facts, § 2-4 prohibition of meeting alerts with represals, § 2-5 enterprises shall, as a general rule, be obliged to have internal alert procedures, § 3-6; The purpose of these provisions is to protect workers who report critical aspects of their business, while at the same time clarifying that alerts are both lawful and desirable. The fear of represals is usually the reason why someone fails to warn. In particular, there are issues relating to the psychosocial work environment and where the leader is involved in critical situations. When Stortinget dealt with the changes in the Finnish Working Environment Act. 207 L for 2014-2015, the Right, the Party of Progress and the Left entered the following in the notes to improve the situation of alerts: Cooperation between relevant supervisory authorities shall be strengthened in order to improve information on rights and obligations of all parties involved. An awareness/information campaign on alerts can be assessed in cooperation with social partners. Alert procedures should become a mandatory requirement and the law should clarify a minimum content of alert procedures. The right, together with the other parties in the committee, is pleased that the Council of State has followed up the comments of the majority of the population. The legislative proposal proposes changes to strengthen the situation of alerts. In addition, the Government has set up an expert group at the request of Stortinget, cf. Inner. 205 S for 2015-2016, which will carry out a comprehensive review of current alert legislation, and propose the measures that the sample may consider appropriate, whether legislative changes or other measures are now. The selection shall deliver its nomination by 1 March 2018 in the form of a NOU. Today, the rules on alerts can be found in two different chapters of the Working Environment Act, Chapter 2 and Chapter 3. On the right, it is a good idea to bring together the rules on alerts in a separate chapter, Chapter 2 A, as proposed by the Ministry. It becomes more tidy and will give warning a more visible and clear place in the law. In addition, the alert rules become more user-friendly. Right-wing supports the Ministry's proposal that in establishments with at least 10 employees, an unconditional obligation to establish alert procedures shall apply. This was also widely supported in the consultation round. The right considers that establishments with less than 10 employees should be exempted from the obligation to have alert procedures. That's because we don't want to impose unnecessary formal requirements on small businesses. After all, there is nothing to prevent them from establishing a form of alerting procedures appropriate to a workplace for five to six employees. In the right, it is good that the warning rules also apply to hired workers. In the case of posted workers who have been hired, we must deal with the broadcasting legislation, which governs the rules applicable to them. The application of Norwegian rules to all foreign activities providing services in Norway may conflict with the EEA Agreement rules on freedom of movement and the Posting of Workers Directive. On the right, the Ministry is aware of changes to the broadcasting regulation and asks the Ministry to look at the issue of alert rules. This proposition is also about working time. Today's legislation does not fully harmonize with the developments we have had in working life and in family life in recent years. More and more people have the opportunity to work flexibly with home offices. With small children to be picked up in kindergarten and at SFO, many people think it is good to be able to go home from work a little earlier, have more time with the family in the afternoon and then return to work a little later in the evening. The proposal to allow access to work between 1 p.m. 9 p.m. and 9 p.m. 23.00 is supported by employers’ organisations and by employees’ organisations Academics and NITO. But it is important to point out that such a scheme should be voluntary. This is clarified in the draft legislative text by working between 1 p.m. 9 p.m. and 9 p.m. 23:00 shall be promised in writing and shall be done on the initiative of the employee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1539	Would the representative like to take up the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1544	Yes, the representative wants to address the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1550	The representative Bente Stein Mathisen has then taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1555	The progress party has always wanted to protect the alert. That is why it is a pleasure that we are discussing this issue today. Fortunately, Norwegian working life is characterized by good and orderly relationships. Most employers are committed to complying with laws and regulations, for the benefit of their employees, their customers and society. Unfortunately, the workers sometimes fear that complaining conditions will have consequences for those who say from the outset, even if it is not always true that they are remarkable. However, it is in the interests of society that alerts do not need to fear reprisals. I think it is appropriate to take a little look back at the story of how the protection of alerts has been dealt with politically. Many people probably remember that in the mid-2000s, such issues were focused on; on the Siemens case and on the Hustad book, where both alerts were part of a major public debate. The then red-green government was forced to introduce alert protection into the Work Environment Act. Some argued that the alert was already adequately protected by the Constitutional Freedom Paragraph, although it was still clear that several alerts were still losing the job. I am pleased that a united bourgeois opposition with Robert Eriksson from the Party of Progress, Martin Engeset from the Right, Åse Gunhild Duesund from the Christian People's Party and André N. Skkelstad from the Left pushed forward this amendment, and from 2007 the alert was protected. But the Progress Party thought it was not enough and that we could go even further. For several years, the Progress Party worked to ensure that the protection of the alerts was better illuminated by a separate sample. I am therefore pleased today that today's government has now set up such an expert committee. It is a victory day for all of us who believe that the warnings should be well protected when we are dealing with clear rules today. At the same time, it should not be undermined that legal protection must be designed in a sensible way so that it does not become a handicap, and it is important that political games do not make it a bureaucratic burden for a working life that to a very large extent does not need it. That is why I would like to warn against the policy of surrender here in the Chamber today. We see in the recommendation that those batches that had to be persuaded to the introduction of alert protection in 2006/2007 are now trying to present themselves as interested in alerts. The most important thing for all of us should be that employees with knowledge of unethical, illegal or criminal matters report from there. In many cases, such alerts will be the only one to detect corruption or other illegalities. Notification will also help to prevent future illegalities. That's why it's a very happy day for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1571	Norwegian work life is basically good. Employees thrive on the job, and the salary level is relatively high. According to a 2016 global survey, Norway is at the top of the world in terms of well-being in the labour market. A high proportion say that they experience a high degree of job security, good wages and a flexible working day. That's good. But how the individual experiences his/her working life, we cannot read from the statistics. Critical and illegal conditions at work have to be identified. Then the protection of the alerts is absolutely essential. When we negotiated the changes in the Working Environment Act with the cooperation parties in the spring of 2015, no night work or warning was part of the matter. The Christian People's Party and the Left were negotiated that the government had to take action to strengthen alerts' rights. Among other things, the government should ensure better cooperation between relevant supervisory authorities in order to improve the information available on alerts and on legislation, to see whether alert procedures should become a mandatory requirement, and to clarify a minimum content of alert procedures. I am therefore pleased that we are today adopting a strengthening of the alert protection. The proposition clearly indicates that alerts are both lawful and desirable. I'm glad. It is good that the rules relating to alerts now have a separate chapter of the Working Environment Act and that the protection is extended to hired workers. In addition, it is positive that it is now legal to clarify when the employer is obliged to introduce alert procedures, and not least the content of the procedure. The government promoted in the proposition that only enterprises with at least 10 employees had an obligation to develop such procedures. The Christian People's Party agrees with the majority of the Committee that this limit should be reduced to five employees. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring that small businesses are not subject to unnecessary red tape, but, in the case of critical and illegal conditions to which an employee may be exposed, the size of the enterprise cannot be decisive in determining whether such practices are in place. The Christian People's Party will therefore support the setting at that point. The Working Environment Act is the foundation of Norwegian working life. It sets out completely central constraints to ensure the protection of workers from undue pressure from the employer. The law must ensure both the protection and flexibility of workers. A recent study by the Statens Arbeitsweltinstitutt, STAMI, in cooperation with Nordic researchers looked at the factors affecting the risk of non-employment and sick leave. Here it was found that workers who have the opportunity to influence their own work, including the ability to control their own work situation and to influence the way they do their work — and not least affect their own working hours — have a lower risk of falling out of work. The way we work, the way we change. Flexibility in working life is important for many workers, especially young children's parents, who may want to cut down working hours on the day in order to be able to pick up early in the kindergarten or be present at the dinner table, so that they can work a few hours in the evening after the kids have gone to bed. As the law is designed today, it will be illegal to work after noon. 21st Last@item: inlistbox The Labour Environment Act must therefore ensure flexibility for those who want it, while still protecting workers from undue pressure from the employer. I am therefore pleased that the change proposed clearly states that it is only on the employee's own initiative that one can ask to have work carried out between 1 p.m. 21 a.m. 23 in the evening, that the employer cannot impose this, that the working time should be included in the general working time, and that the definition of night work should not be changed. The change is intended only to ensure flexibility for workers who want it, and no employer can impose it. It's the individual family who even knows where the shoe prints. Then it is important that the law provides access to a flexible and safe working life. The Christian People's Party will therefore support the government's proposals at this point, in order to ensure flexibility for individual workers and families.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1594	During the consultation round, there has been a discussion of where to limit the size of the activity before the requirements for internal alert procedures apply. The centre party has landed on five employees, in line with the hearings of the academics, NITO and the Norwegian medical association. We see that as necessary, as Norwegian working life evolves. This applies to the extent to which alert protection in the Working Environment Act is to be extended to hired workers. There we agree with what Tekna says, that also posted workers working in Norway over a certain period of time must be covered by Norwegian labour law. It is an important principle that there should be equality of laws, and then the Labour Environment Act must also cover non-resident workers, regardless of what individual workers are defined as. Tekna has proposed to the Committee that the Stortinget clarify the definition of posted workers in the Working Environment Act § 1-7, and that has been done by Tekna because the current wording of the Working Environment Act § 1-7 leaves to others to define who is considered to be posted workers and thus is not covered by, among others. alert protection in the Work Environment Act. We have therefore proposed a change to Section 1-7 of the Working Environment Act to make it clear that all posted workers working in Norway for more than 30 days are to be covered by those parts of the Working Environment Act for which they are currently exempted by the regulation for posted workers. In the case of night work, the Central Party feels that what is today's legislation is working well. We put a lot of emphasis on separating here – so that you can have a good family life, that you can participate in non-governmental organisations. There are probably reasons to have greater flexibility than what is being practised today, but that is the possibility within the law, in agreement with the trade unions. So we're strongly insisting that we stick to the normal working day. We are not happy at night work, perhaps it is because very many people in the Center Party – including me – have worked quite a lot at night and worked quite a lot during the weekends. It is a clue that one should be in such a situation of life that one must work so late and so early and in so many red days, and then you will find that there is nothing one should transfer to others by liberalizing the legislation at that point. There has been a discussion about the definition of tariff activities. The central party believes that legal definitions are important to minimise the scope for interpretation. We believe it is good that Section 1 of the Labour Dispute Act defines the central concept of the Labour Dispute Act. Similarly, we still believe that the Working Environment Act should define important concepts in the Working Environment Act, such as: permanently added and temporarily added, as provided for in paragraph 1. the proposals submitted by the Centre Party at the Innst. 368 S for 2014-2015. But we think, for legal reasons, that the same concept should not be defined more than one place, in one law. The definition of a central concept should therefore, in other words, be contained in one law, while in other laws reference is made to this definition of the term. In this way, the Labour Environment Act should refer to the Labour Dispute Act, where, for example, the concept of collective bargaining is defined. We believe that this is the best legal practice, i.e. that 'tariff agreement' is defined in the Labour Dispute Act, 'fixed' and 'temporarily added' are defined in the work environment legislation. Finally, I would like to refer to the proposal of the Centre Party in the case, the proposals No. 5-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1608	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1613	There are two important issues we are discussing today, both individually and to a certain extent in context: working time and alerting. The government will make it easier to work between 2 p.m. 9 p.m. and 9 p.m. 23:00 in the evening. In other words, this proposal is to facilitate the employment of workers who do not have work to do late in the evening. This is to push on the working day framework and facilitate floating borders. There is a much more fluid relationship between work and leisure, and it is suggested that a greater degree of agreement should be made between the employer and the employee, i.e. the individual, without the need to include the caregiver in the process. It shows that the government does not take into account the real conditions of power in the world of work and the results they get for each of them. But it may not be so surprising when we see a policy that systematically shifts power in the favour of the employer. It may not be surprising that the government does not listen to the warnings from the trade union movement, because today's government is not too ordinary workers. But that the government doesn't listen to the warnings that come from the Labour Inspectorate, I think that's serious. Labour inspectorate warns against eliminating the boundaries between working life and private life. They point out that there are negative health consequences of shifting or extending working time. It's the freedom the majority emphasizes – the freedom to work whenever you want and wherever you want. The right-hand side says that freedom is to give up leisure time and make a larger proportion of their time available to the employer. Those who have the job in their pocket, too, need a protection. And they also need some thresholds, some limits, and they need protection. Too many people will experience an expectation of taking the initiative to finish what you don't manage, if you feel that you're expecting to do it. More tasks may be solved. Maybe the boss will be pleased. But it may also be that you don't last that long, because you add to habits that go on your health, or you work out of your family situation. Once again, it's hard to be fully present at several places at once. How family-friendly this is can absolutely be discussed. I would like to remind you of the fact that we were sitting in the committee listening to the hearing when we discussed the first amendments to the Working Environment Act. It was pointed out that here it is fully possible to make agreements, and there is room to work at noon. 21.00 in the evening when it is possible, but then we have to make sure that it is done in a way that does not put pressure on the individual. The freedom that the right-hand side adds up to here, it does. It is gratifying that the protection of alerts is strengthened, but also here it is important to remember the conditions of power in the labour market. That's why it's important that posted workers are also covered by the warning rules in the workplace, and I wish we had the majority with us there. It is also important that we have a law that covers as much as possible. Therefore, SV wants employers to be obliged to draw up alert procedures. In Norway, there are very many small and medium-sized enterprises. Since our proposal that there should be an obligation on the part of the employer not be given majority voting, we will subsidiaryly support that in cases where there are at least five employees, in order to ensure that at least as many as possible are covered by the important protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1631	Would the representative like to take up the proposal from SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1636	Definitely.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1642	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1647	The government wants several of those who observe unethical or illegal conditions at work to say so. We have appointed an expert committee to carry out an overall assessment of the legislation. In particular, the committee shall assess whether the right to alert is appropriately regulated. Until the recommendations of the sample are available, we believe that some changes are needed to strengthen the protection of alerts. The warning rules should be accessible and easily accessible. We therefore propose to incorporate the rules into a separate new chapter of the Working Environment Act. Today, the warning rules apply only in relation to its own employees. Rented workers do not have a job protection for the lessee, so they may be in an extra vulnerable situation if they are alerted about critical aspects of the lessee's business. We therefore propose that the warning rules also apply to hired workers. We know that there are more warnings and that the alerts are better treated in companies that have alert procedures. I am pleased that a total accumulation ends up with new rules on alert procedures. I take note that a majority believe that businesses with at least five employees should be required to establish alert procedures. The government proposed a limit of ten. The research indicates that half of those who observe critical conditions fail to report. Society can benefit greatly from the emergence of such relationships. There should therefore be a low threshold to notify public authorities. With the proposed obligation of professional secrecy, more people could dare to alert the authorities. The intention of the establishment and the notified person indicates that the obligation of professional secrecy should not go beyond what is necessary to keep the identity of the alert secret. It is also covered by this proposal. Then I register that the committee has discussed the relationship with posted workers. Questions have been raised as to whether the alert rules should also apply to posted workers — including workers hired to enterprises from foreign recruitment agencies. I also record that a question has been raised about when an employee is to be regarded as being sent. These are important questions. The Ministry is currently working on this issue in the context of making changes to the remittance regulation. We then look at both the question of clarifying who is considered to be a posted worker and clarifying the protection rules of the Working Environment Act that apply to posted workers, including the warning rules. With the proposal for working time, all workers can work between 21 and 23 hours if they so wish. For many, the family situation may make it desirable to leave the job early and instead work a few hours away from home at night, or there may be other reasons that make it appropriate to split up the working day. I think many people are familiar with what this proposal is about, perhaps especially parents with young children. Many people may be aware of the need to be more present during their waking hours, and rather bring out the PC later. However, only workers can take this initiative. The worker must want to work between 21 and 23 hours himself. A written agreement between the parties is required. At the same time, the employer must agree that some of the work may be postponed until the evening. Work carried out after 21:00 must be within daily working hours. Work beyond daily or weekly agreed working hours will continue to be overtime or additional work. The aim is to provide better opportunities for flexible working days, without the employee having to work more or rest less.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1679	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1684	I wonder if the government council is comfortable with once again making a proposition to the Stortinget that contains warnings from her own trade unions, such as the Labour Inspectorate, about negative consequences?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1690	In my view, the proposal we have put forward is relatively modest. There is a strong impact, and it is quite clear that the opportunity to work in the evening, i.e. after 1 p.m. 9 p.m. and until 9 p.m. 23:00, it is the worker himself who is to take the initiative. There shall be a written agreement to do so, and the employer may not require the employee to do so. As I said in my post, I think there are a lot of people who recognize themselves in the time bracket, especially in the infant phase. Now the representative will soon have someone even in the phase when you are going to fight against the clock with young children. I believe that the way we have hit this is so far the message and so far the simple that this will be no disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1699	I record that the Council of State turned the question away to a very large extent. This is not the first proposal from the government, which contains liberalisation and weakening of the work environment law, and which directly challenges what is the model – and the design, if one wants – of the work environment law: that one should have a strict law, but then there should be rich possibilities for exceptions to the rules. The requirement is that the employer and the employee have to be some about it and discuss and agree on it. My question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State behind the model of labour law: a strict law with rich possibilities for exceptions, but that must be agreed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1707	Of course, I am behind the law's model and the intention of the law. The whole starting point of the Working Environment Act is to protect the worker. What we are now proposing is that those who work at daytime with work that can be split up can move parts of their work to later tonight if they want to. This is not about extra work or overtime work. It will continue to be regulated in the same way as before, and it shall be the employee himself who initiates this. So this is an individual right to take some work home if you want it, and not something you are required to do. I can't see that this relatively modest change, which I would say is, affects the main intention of the Working Environment Act or the model and what is the intention behind the legal provisions on the protection of workers. I still believe that this is a relatively modest change, which will result in greater flexibility for workers who, for various reasons, want to divide their working time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1713	I would also like to start by saying that I am pleased that the Council of State and the Ministry have presented these proposals for tightening up the alert legislation. That's good, and here we stand together. What I want to ask you is the problem that has arisen during the hearing round, and also during the hearing here on the Stortinget, which is about posted workers and whether they should also be covered by the alert protection. Today, the government has to look at this. In the setting, the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party wrote that if one were to go into something like that, it would be contrary to the Posting Directive and our EEA obligations. One should respect our EEA obligations, but I'm a little tired of seeing how it would be possible to bring out workers in conflict with the Posting Directive. So my question is, does the Council have anything to add in that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1723	I'm going to be the first to admit that these are relatively complicated questions. However, it is quite correct that posted workers initially have their employment in their country of origin as long as they are considered to be temporarily posted. Then there may be some assignments they carry out where you will in reality be to be regarded as a permanent employee in Norway, and then, of course, the Norwegian rules apply to them as well. The Directive, as it is now drafted, does not allow for the setting of a limit when the task is not to be considered as temporary. But then we know that the Commission is now working on amendments to its directives. There's a 24-month discussion. What makes it come up in the consultation round is, of course, 1 month, and that is where the challenge lies. As I said in my main reply, we are now working to look at how you can look at the rights of the broadcasters in the law, and then we have to get back to Stortinget with that. But I have recorded a clear wish from Stortinget that several of the broadcasts should be incorporated in different ways into the law, and we will of course see how to do so within the terms of the agreements we are obliged to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1733	It says in the text that it's going to be easier to put work to work after 8 p.m. 21 in the evening, where the worker himself takes the initiative. Now it's like most people have an expectation of delivering. A time pressure on the job is something that many people have in their working life. Then I wonder – because you can always ask yourself how free will is – what the government takes to be absolutely sure that this will only apply to those who want it. How can the Council of States be sure that this will only apply to those taking the initiative itself and that there will be no expectation of ever more evening work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1739	As I said in my reply to the representative Holen Bjørdal, this does not apply to overtime or extra work. Overtime and additional work shall be treated in the same way as before, namely more work and overtime. This proposal concerns that if, for various reasons, you want to divide your working day, which you have in the daytime, you can take some of your work home and do it between hours. 21 a.m. 23, without it being considered to be evening work. I think a lot of us in this room have known a little bit about that feeling, what it's like when you have little kids you're going to be able to pick up in kindergarten, the kids are laying down early and you want to be with the kids while they're awake, and the freedom it is to be able to do the work again after the kids lie down. My main answer, however, is that our proposal does not apply to overtime work or to additional work, it applies to those who can take parts of the work home, divide up the work and do some of it in the evening, if you want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1747	I would like the Council of State to elaborate on what it is within today's law that makes it impossible to get similar agreements where appropriate, but with trusted people involved. Then, of course, part of the criticism here is that you see a shift between work and leisure, and that some will experience a pressure to finish things at home, because it easily becomes culture because you get an evening work culture in areas where evening work is not defined as necessary by the nature of the work. And if you have a expectation of doing something, you also take the easy initiative to do it. I wonder if the Council of State can assure me that there will not be any developments in which more people experience that evening work is expected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1755	For very many workers, this provision would not be relevant, nor would it be relevant. This is only relevant and relevant for those who have the opportunity to take the job home at all, and all professional groups do not have the opportunity to do so. Of course, I cannot give any guarantee on behalf of all employees and all employers, but as we hit it in the way we do – by saying clearly that this will only apply in cases where the employee wants it, this is an individual right that the employees get, it should be done by written agreement, and it should not be about extra work or overtime work. I believe that there is a good guarantee against employees being exploited by their employers. Nor do I believe that there will be widespread abuse on the part of employers, that employees should be exploited by imposing overtime work on them without compensation under this provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1763	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1770	The representative of Holen Bjørdal has explained well the views of the Workers' Party. My post relates to the issue most discussed here, namely the issue of working time limit in the evening and night work. Most of it has been said about the facts of the case, but I wouldn't let it go beyond that this is a proposal that goes into a number of proposals by the right-wing government that obviously intend to push Norwegian workers. That's what's really in it. It's obvious. As you now hear the Council of State and the Right representatives in the Chamber, it is very clear that they do not have a proper understanding of how the working life works for hundreds of thousands of workers. This question of flexibility and freedom for the individual, as it is said here, which is the engine to propose what is now proposed, has the effect – just as it was now quite correctly said in the line change – that it will be more a norm to work in the evening than it has been at present. Everyone who knows how the working life works sees that that's what's going to happen. In addition, it may be a positive thing to think about, and I say, if possible, an effect that will only apply to specific professional groups that have the opportunity to do their work at home in the evening. The perspective that is not addressed here, but which I would like to stress, is the impact on the hundreds of thousands of people who work in the evening, for example. what we saw at NRK last night, that about the person who works at the Gardermo, and who suddenly will be paid less because working hours may not start working until 23:00 in the evening. It's not that the right-hand government doesn't know about these things. They know well about it. But they suggest it anyway, because there is another building block in the construction they have, that is to say, to shift the working life in such a way that the workers and the trade unions are gradually getting weaker. The fact that Left and Red Water are on it is now a lost case – they have placed themselves on the right line a long time ago. It's a violation of their own political tradition, but it's up to them to take responsibility for themselves. But that's the reality of this issue, and it's the serious thing about it, because you don't understand how it works out, because the workers are being pressured, and the legal and political authority of the trade union movement is gradually weakened because you don't accept the right to negotiate and the possibility to use the flexibility of the law that's there. It could solve everything – we have no problems with this today – if you wanted to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1784	It is always charming to be guided by the representative Martin Kolberg on what is Left's political tradition. If Martin Kolberg had spent a little more time looking over to the other side of Youngstorget, where the House of the Left is standing, and followed by what the Left stands for, he would know that this proposal that it should no longer be illegal to respond to a job e-mail after 9 p.m., is a proposal that the Left has made on a number of occasions during the last periods of collapse, and that we are pleased to see today. I have to say that the post of the representative Martin Kolberg joins a series of posts the recent time when representatives of the red-green parties not only discuss and draw in doubt the effect of proposals, but draw in doubt the intention of them: the civil parties want greater differences, they want centralization, they want a tougher working life for the employees. – One should have quite a lot of insight into what others are thinking, in order to make sense of what they intend to do. Then we need to know a lot. What the Labour Party forgets in this matter is – almost as usual – all those who are not organized, the fifty percent of workers in this country who cannot agree to be allowed to reply to a job e-mail after 21:00, but who will now have a chance to do so if they take the initiative themselves. What I think is a sensible modernisation of working life, which most workers and people in this country will appear to be very sensible. But I'm going to think that the Working Party of the House will go to the choice to tighten this up again, just like they're going to tighten up the other changes that were made to the Working Environment Act in this period. I think the time will show that these are good schemes. But what I actually went up to say, it wasn't, it was to fix something I said in my first post. There I said that I took up proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox In an incursion, it's there, but it's also part of the setting. So I do not want to mention proposal No. 2, because the intention behind it is well represented in the vote of the Committee. Otherwise I will say, with a happy tone, that I am pleased that there is a great deal of agreement here today on at least the changes that apply to a stronger alarm protection. It's high time. I think the government has done a good job of following up the decisions of Stortinget. Now they have their effect through concrete changes of promise, and I also hope that we will come even further afterwards as we will probably get more good advice from the expert selection that is working on that particular issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1799	The representative of Sveinung Rotevatn has withdrawn the proposal he raised earlier in the debate. We'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1804	We can probably have a long discussion about what the Left wants, but what is at least a fact is that what the Left does here in this room is centralization. We're not getting away from that. In practice, they are centralising in a number of areas by giving a majority to the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party. They also support policies that result in increased economic differences between people. It's also a fact. They carry out centralisation and support policies that result in increasing differences between people. It's okay if it's the historical line of the left. I don't know the history of the Left as well as the representative Rotevatn, but I haven't understood that it's been a clear line all year. At least there have been other contradictions in the past as well. I took the floor in connection with the alert rules and hired workers. The amendment to which we are now going to apply will not in itself lead to these rules being applicable to posted workers who are hired. Broadcasting legislation governs the rules of the Working Environment Act applicable to posted workers. It is interesting to note that both the Right Party and the Advance Party in the vote say that making all Norwegian rules applicable to all foreign activities providing services in Norway for a longer period than one month could conflict with the EEA Agreement rules on freedom of movement and with the Posting Directive. This is probably an example of the limitations that the EEA Agreement provides for the important point we are now mentioning about the alert protection. It may be not least in this area, for posted workers in Norway, that there is a need for alert protection. This is where we have experience that alerts are at least extensive, because those who are in those working situations are afraid to say so. It helps us to develop a bacterium that is negative and that damages the health of Norwegian working life, and there is something that the Center Party strongly opposes. I would like to conclude by saying that, if our proposal, proposal No. 5, the Senterpartiet will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals No. 3 and 4, promoted by the Workers' Party, Left and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1816	In order to protect me from the President's subsequent reproof, I would say it's not sarcastic when I say that when the representative Rotevatn uses his Western sarcasm to reduce my authority, it's charming in many ways – but it's politically very serious. It is quite obvious that he is struggling very much with this, because the freedom of the individual human being, who is the historical tradition of the Left, is undermined by the weakening of the legal position of the individual human being in the world of work. That's the line in there, and that's what it says. What's happening today can be said not to be so serious, as the council says – she's trying to minimize it – but it's getting into the sequence. Taking them away with a daily allowance for holiday money, for example, is a political trifle and nothing but that. It's just an attempt to push those who go on a day's payroll, to realize that – if you don't get along, you don't even get a vacation, and next year, if you get a job, you don't have a vacation, but it's your fault. That's the undertone of this. And that supports the left up about it. It's not good in a society that's going to be connected. When you don't represent those who sit at the bottom of the table and who wear the most, you're not in a social liberal tradition. Then you're in a right-hand tradition. That's the historical line. Why do you remove collective legal rights in the trade union movement, which Left supported? Why do you do that? It has no other purpose than to weaken the ability of the trade union movement to care for the individual. There is also a breach of this tradition. Not to mention the entire temporary period, which is about the next generation of workers in Norway, who are being more and more temporarily pushed out. And then comes today's case, which we're actually dealing with now, and which goes into the range of unnecessary things to do. You say flexibility, modernity – yes, for who is it? Well, it's for those who have the money, and for those who are employers. That is the reality of this matter. The sad thing is that the middle parties – especially the Left, but also the Christian People's Party – are in many ways behind it. I just don't understand what they're thinking, given that they're trying to defend a welfare state and a work life that's connected, and the tripartite cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1828	Freedom is a demanding concept. The different views of the right and left on freedom stand up against each other, and it is about that we stand for different forms of freedom and freedom for different peoples. The left, socialists, we who have our roots in the movement of labour, know that freedom lies in the community. We depend on the community for each one of us to know our freedom and experience freedom. We know that it's when we're in charge, when we stand up for each other, when we're in a community, freedom is within reach. It's because the work force has a crooked relationship of power. It's because when we stand by each other, we're small, but when we stand by many, we're strong. All the historical experience shows that. The history of labour movement's victories, of how the working life has been designed to be more adapted to the workforce, is a story about it, while the freedom of the right is about the one's ending where the next begins. This is why more freedom is provided for employers behind concepts such as flexibility. Because this is not about freedom for workers. You have chosen a side as to who freedom should be for. And that's what this question is about, that's what's at the heart of SV's criticism: that's how to ensure that the freedom that's represented is not only defended in fine words, but that it's real, in a situation where power conditions are crooked. I took the floor because, in my reply with the Council of State, I did not receive an answer to my question. One of my questions was: what in today's law is it that prevents the possibility of making agreements where the intention of today's proposal is respected? So, what is it that prevents the possibility of making agreements where trustees are involved, but where it opens up that some of the work that needs to be done, or taken back, can be shifted to the evening? As the representative Rotevatn says, how can you prevent a violation of the law by taking the phone at noon? 21? Is it a crime? I wonder, and I wonder what is the answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1836	I think this debate shows – once again – how hopelessly old-fashioned the Labour Party's labour policy is. They're going to be going down in a few years, but it's pretty remarkable -- when we're in a situation where a lot of people are involved in technological developments at work in such a way that you don't actually have to be in the office from 8 to 16, like you were in the old days and in Martin Kolberg's great age. Now the world of work is completely different, and this is going to be a lot more of a future. That means you don't have to sit in an office to work, you can do it from home, you can do it from a cabin, you can do it on a trip, you can do it on a private trip, you can do it at any time, in a lot of jobs, and that's what this proposal is all about. And to answer Kirsti Bergstø's questions to the government council, and the lack of logic from the red-green ones, it's okay to work from 21 to 23, and longer, if you have it in a collective agreement. The main problem is that thanks to the red-green policies in recent years, the degree of organisation in Norwegian working life has declined. This means that more than half of Norway’s employees are not allowed to take part in the opportunities offered to those who have a collective agreement, and therefore there is a problem for a relatively large number of employees, for whom we are now making a simplification. This is family friendly, it allows people to go to work, pick up kids earlier in the kindergarten and at the SFO – or for those who don't have the SFO, and young children like to end up half two in school, then the parents can pick them up – you can be more with the kids when they're awake, and then pick up the PC again when the kids have gone to bed. It's good family policy, it's good employment policy. I understand that the Workers' Party is against it, because they are not used to it, they are used to being at work, they have to be in an office, and you have to leave when the work is done. Working life has changed, so it's important, I think, it's the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that once again contributes to modernising the Working Environment Act. It makes it more flexible for those who need it, and if you don't need it, you do what you do. The law captures this by giving the initiative to individual employees. In the case of salaries, disadvantages, overtime, night allowances and evening allowances, the representative of Kolberg should be aware that there is no issue for the Stortinget, it is a matter for the social partners in annual negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1848	In my previous post, I expressed my wonder at the representative Martin Kolberg's insight into my own party's purpose and the way we think. In reply to me he went even further, because then he had also worked out a great deal of insight into how I personally think: "It is quite obvious that he is struggling very much with this," said the representative Martin Kolberg. I do not wear this. On the contrary, I am very comfortable with this. Had I had less respect for the Storting, I should have considered solving both the tie and throwing the jacket to express how comfortable I am with this. For the proposals we are adopting today, the Left has been in place for a long time. We've done them several times, now we're getting a pass for them, and I'm glad. But Martin Kolberg said something very right, and it's that one's not a socially liberal party if one's not standing next to those who are at the bottom of the table. I basically agree with the representative. It's a completely fundamental struggle for a party occupied by human freedom, that everyone should have real freedom to achieve their goals in life. For this reason, I am also so proud that during this period we have stood on and worked for just those who are at the bottom of the table, through a great deal of work on the Russorga, by bringing down the drop-off in further education, by helping children in poor families – 50 000 have got cheaper kindergartens now – and through the case we are working on today, where we are tightening up when it comes to alarm protection and making it easier for those who are exposed to illegalities and critical conditions to say from now on and get support for it. The sac Martin Kolberg criticises, however, in my view, is not about it. It is about workers who have a flexible job so that they can work outside the office as well, and who want to leave work a little earlier to take care of other values in their life – family, leisure time – should have the opportunity to pick up the PC again and work a little at night. Yes, I thought it was about freedom for the employees. I don't think it's a problem that they should be able to do that when they take the initiative themselves. I would also like to say that the Workers' Party's policy, line and direction do not actually fit the rhetoric here, as in so many areas, because here is an image of how an undermining the foundation of working life, which I believe is important for the Workers' Party. But does one go to the option to reverse it? No, no, no. Can a selection promise to do something with it after the choice? No, no, no. I don't think one's going to do that either. In danger of undermining my own argument that one might not guess the intent of another party, I still think it's a pretty sure guess, for these are policies that are going to stand, and that tolerate the tooth of time very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1858	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1863	There was a question of whether there was a difference between a collective agreement and not. Yes, there is a difference between an agreement made with trustees and an agreement where the individual has made an agreement with his employer. Now it is the case that trustees, the labour-environment law and the trade-union movement are treated as obstacles, which stand in the way. That's why you weaken the work environment law, weaken the trade union movement, weaken the influence of the trust elected. That's the perspective of the Right. The SV's perspective is that it helps to ensure the necessary protection in a working life where the conditions of power are erased are not even. But it may not be so strange that the party that is in government with a finance minister who has stated that the Norwegian model stands the way for the Norwegian people, it has the vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1873	The representative Arve Kambe once again shows that he has a somewhat limited knowledge of Norwegian employment. If you do not understand that there is an imbalance between employees and employers, you have understood little about Norwegian employment. I must say that I am surprised that the representative Kambe once again rules with what he experiences as a trade union movement that stands up for his own. We heard it in the case of multi-use vessels in this room a week ago, and now the positions taken by a large part of the Norwegian trade union movement in that matter are not respected. But that might not be strange. The representative, Kambe, shows that he is not on the side of employees in some issues related to the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1879	The husband of unprofessional posts is long since I have heard from the pulpit of Storting, and therefore it was an advantage that it was relatively short and inconclusive. If we look at the consultation opinions on the proposal from parts of the trade union movement, the academics, who may be the trade union that has most members in the target group of the bill, say that they support the proposal for ‘greater flexibility’, as they themselves put it. They both want and need flexibility and ‘especially in the balance between family life and work’. It says the country's fourth largest trade union. The country’s largest independent trade union, NITO, ‘regards the need for flexibility in this area and supports the proposal’. They assume, which the representative Aasrud obviously did not get, that it should only be done on the initiative of the employee. It has also been called in the comments and in the bill. That's why it means a lot. We have a work environment law that tries to develop in the course of our working life, while at the same time taking care of the most important thing we have under the Working Environment Act, namely to take care of the employees, who are going to be well and safe in Norwegian workplaces. It's got the North today. You have a good payment today. One manages to have a good working life. And together with the social partners, the government has been given a solid majority several times to go after those who are unprofessional. We see that, as a general rule, the working environment regulation on permanent employment is strongly applicable. I have to say that this way the Labour Party is constantly slowing down the development of working life, one will not be served. It looks like you have a double standard for the Workers' Party's own people versus other people. Here at Stortinget you have days off. You don't meet at work sometimes. Then Martin Kolberg and Rigmor Aasrud take home and work from home, at any time, even in the evening, without a collective agreement. The flexibility that the Workers' Party gives itself, they do not want others to have, in ordinary jobs. It's typical of the Workers' Party. We also see that when party leader Jonas Gahr Støre goes and visits jobs looking for faults, and then he has the biggest faults in his own direction, in his own construction sites. Yes, we have a prime minister candidate who won't visit entrepreneurs because he's afraid they're asleep at work. I think we need a prime minister and a government that has faith in the future in Norwegian employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1891	First, I'm a little surprised that the Council of State apparently doesn't want to answer the question that Kirsti Bergstø repeatedly asks, and I just register that the Council of State doesn't want to do it. Then it is clear that the representative Kambe unfortunately demonstrates a lack of knowledge about the most important part of Norwegian working life, and there are ordinary workers. He does not understand or will not understand what the constant liberalisation of labour law means for ordinary workers, those of us who cannot do the job on the iPad in the barn at home in the evening – and that applies to most of us. The first general strike since the 1990s didn't come because people don't understand the government's policy, as Kambe insinuates. The problem is that workers understand the consequences of government policies, and they don't want what they see. Kambe can't get away with this. This government, with a centre of gravity on the right, systematically weakens the conditions for ordinary workers, because it is not their interests. And even if the Council of State assures us here in the Chamber that she is behind the model of work environment law, it is obvious that that understanding must be far inside. Norwegian working life is no longer modern by weakening the protection of workers and the conditions of organised working life, as is the result of the sum of this government's policies, which have been pursued since 2013. This is not new, it's not modern – it's classic, old-fashioned right-wing policy. It is a historical conclusion to believe that we get a better and more modern working life by turning back 100 years on time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1904	I will not fail to respond to the representative Bergstø. I replied to the representative Bergstø in the reply to questions about what we are doing. We give employees an individual right to contract directly with the employer. There may be workers who are not organized, as others have pointed out here. It may be workers who are organised but who wish to enter into an agreement when trustees do not want an agreement to be concluded. It is possible to decide for yourself whether to work in the evening if it is appropriate for one's own life, and if so for the employer, because the employer must also accept that part of the work is transferred from one's place of work to another time in the day. The impression is that no one is in favour of this proposal, and that this is something that has come out of itself. This builds, among other things: on a proposal from the Working Time Committee, which made a statement last year. Trade unions supporting this proposal are also, as the representative Mr Kambe pointed out, not least trade unions with members for whom this is particularly relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1912	The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1917	First, a brief comment on what the Council of State now said: Yes, there are some who support it, it is correct and evident from the documents. But the point is that the needs of those who support this can be met by the law of the day. That's the point. There's no problem. But those who will be affected by it are those who cannot do this freely, who cannot work from home, and who in a short time will probably get their pay cut because working hours break in at 0 p.m. 23 a.m. instead of 7 p.m. 21st Last@item: inlistbox They're the ones who have to wash in the evening and the night. That's the problem. I know that the representative Kambe has little respect for the trade movement. We notice that very clearly. But he should perhaps have respect for the Labour Inspectorate, who says the same thing, namely that this should not be done. But this also fits into a tradition. The Labour Inspectorate also strongly warned against lifting the provision on collective redress, but the right-wing government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1925	The election campaign is now under way. It's actually been marked in the Labour Party for four years. There's a long way between the posts that aren't just polemics, where it's real substance, and where you discuss what the government is actually doing. It's just polemics – nothing more! The representative, Kolberg, is talking about respect for the Labour Inspectorate. Yes, if one government respects the Labour Inspectorate, it is. That is why we have strengthened the Labour Inspectorate. If there is one government that is engaged in combating unprofessional actors and labour crime in Norway, it is this one. That is why, in cooperation with the social partners, we have developed a strategy against the crime of working life, with strong measures to combat the unprofessional actors. We have long been warned by the Workers' Party – Holen Bjørdal, Kolberg, Aasrud, Andersen & co. – on the policy of this government in the field of working life. Take, for example: The changes to the Working Environment Act as we did: we are being accused of not having respect for trade unions, when it was this vast majority that gave more confidence and power to local trustees in the workplace. Nevertheless, they say that we do not have respect for the trade unions. It doesn't make any sense. Before 2013, we heard heart attacks from trade unions other than LO, who thought that there was no real tripartite cooperation in Norway under the red-green government. That was stated by, among others. a former YS leader, for he believed that the YS was not listened to by the red-green. And we hear the echo of the representatives of the Workers' Party over the trade unions who support the proposal we are discussing today. It is only hazelas – over trade unions that support this proposal. But this is what real tripartite cooperation involves. So it would be interesting to ask the representatives of the Workers' Party about the following: Where is the collapse of Norwegian working life that happened with the changes in the working environment law we implemented? And not least: where are the specific places in the adopted programme of the Workers' Party where you can read that they should reverse everything we did about changes in the Working Environment Act? They're not there. It's just polemics.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1939	The representative, Arve Kambe, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1944	I think the Labour Party's behaviour from the pulpit today is almost embarrassing, clumsy. And when the representative of Kolberg manages to perform to say that I am against trade unions or that I do not show respect for trade unions, it is almost sad to hear – that we have parliamentarians who are sinking to that level. We have in government Right, which is a party with strong traditions of tripartite cooperation. I had lunch meeting with approx. yesterday. 50 trustees in the YS – the representative of Kolberg would have tried that, he probably never did – precisely because we have more trade unions in Norway than LO, and that is good. Everyone needs a good work life. We are positive to the trade unions, we are positive to an organized working life. That is why we have given greater benefits to those who are members of trade unions, and that is why we have maintained the tax credit for the union quota. I think Martin Kolberg should have protected himself from this use of words, which is totally wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1952	The President would point out that some expressions may not be entirely parliamentary. It includes the expression "flocked". The representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1959	The installation by the representative Kambe and his characteristics by the Labour Party may stand alone, but I am happy to register the appeal from the President. I guess it was fast. The Right Party is becoming more and more tense and anxious in defending government policy. It's not hard to understand. I'm listening to the representative Heggelund, who is trying to teach the Workers' Party what a tripartite collaboration is. But it sounds very hollow from a party that's still going around thinking that being a government hearing authority is the same thing as tripartite collaboration. It is not possible to exclude that today's government is weakening the security of the labour market and weakening the conditions of organized working life. That's why it's a good thing it's a choice for the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1969	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1988	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e1997	I would first like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation and Reflective Comments on a matter that has many principal aspects, and which intervenes in the core of social work methodology. Prop. 108 L is about changes to the Social Services Act and the municipality’s access to provide contact information and information on the place of residence to the police and the police. The proposal is based on information from the Ministry of Justice and Security that police and criminal services need to provide more information on recipients of municipal services in the Nav Office than is currently provided by the Social Services Act. This may be contact information in the event of criminal convictions, where necessary for the hearing of suspected or central witnesses, and in the case of the service of judges. Criminal services also need proper contact information when convening convicted offenders for acquittal. The fourth paragraph of Section 7 of the Nav Act provides for the right to waive the obligation of professional secrecy of the Employment and Welfare Act. The Social Services Act has no equivalent provision. The second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 44 of the Social Services Act opens today so that information on the place of residence of the recipient may be provided without prejudice to the obligation of professional secrecy. However, after this home delivery can only be made if it is clear that the delivery will not damage the trust of the municipality. This home is therefore rarely sufficient when police and criminal services seek information from social services. The Ministry proposed in the consultation note a partial harmonisation of the rules on professional secrecy laid down in the Nav and Social Services Act, in order to enable police and criminal services to obtain information on recipients of social services in the Nav Office when it is demonstrated that the information is necessary to enable those authorities to perform the public tasks assigned to them. The purpose of social services may be to enable persons in search of the police to visit social services without jeopardising their place of residence. However, the crucial issue in this case is that the need to protect society against crime should be given crucial importance and, in some cases, it should be possible to provide information to the police and the criminal services, even if this could potentially break the trust of the individual social welfare beneficiary in the municipality. It is not desirable that, on the basis of professional secrecy, social services should indirectly help people to remain hidden from the police or criminal justice system. The proposed change opens up the right to provide information to the municipality rather than a duty to provide information. The Ministry does not consider it appropriate to impose on the municipality an obligation to supply information which in practice will often not be available in file documents or registers. Figures from 2016 show that the Labour Welfare Directorate received about 50 requests for information from the police. There is reason to believe that the police and criminal services will investigate other available sources of information, such as the public register, before those bodies contact the municipality to obtain the information provided on the basis of the Social Services Act. Then I would like to stress the following: I have been working as a social worker for 25 years, and I think it is quite essential that this change in the law be treated with great caution, and that social work is primarily about mutual trust, and it is incredibly important that it be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2017	I'll be brief. First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough and thorough examination of the matter and for the way in which the matter has been dealt with in the Committee. That should be an example of follow-up for more. The Labour Party supports the intentions of the proposal presented here and will not make any other proposals. We share the points made in the rapporteur's statements here, and they seem reasonable. Then I just want to say that there are many demanding balances that have to be made in connection with matters that are also coming forward. I had a question in the Questionnaire that was answered by the Minister of Justice not long ago, which is about changes in the law to be used to combat the crime of working life, which can also limit this matter. It is important for the government to come back, so that the information sharing between the control modes can also come to Stortinget, so that we can make the necessary adjustments in other types of matters that affect any of the adjacent fields here. But we do not promote any other proposals and support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2029	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for a very nuanced, thorough and good presentation of the matter, and the work of the Committee. I fully support the fact that this case has many sides, and that it intervenes in the social worker methodology. This is a proposal which I am absolutely sure has been promoted for the best, but which SV will vote against, because of the effects we fear that the proposal and the change could have. Providing contact information to the police would make many people think that different agencies are doing so. However, as the rapporteur explained very well, it is not that easy in this case. It is important for individuals to be able to visit social services without fear of being able to provide information to the police. That means that people who need help may not be looking for help. We know that if that's how parents don't dare to seek help, it's the kids it's going to go down. It is also essential that an auxiliary position also achieves a trust situation, and that it is possible to have that relationship without fear of information being used against you or passed on. I would like to conclude by saying that it is not without reason that both the Joint Organisation for Child Protection Educators, Protectors and Sosionomers – this is my Federation – the Church’s City Mission, Juss-Buss and a number of statesmen are critical of the proposal, and recommend that it not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2039	No one else has asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2058	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies are given after contributions by members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Lene Langemyr, who is making contributions on behalf of Mr Inbjørg Amanda Vosskensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2069	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on the matter on behalf of the rapporteur, even if there has been a split vote. It has been the opinion of the rapporteur that there has been an unproblematic procedure in the committee. So I would like to thank the representative, Kjeseth, for directing the Storting's attention to an important topic relating to children. Activity aids are an important, sometimes essential, contribution to their participation in the same way as other children in society. Such facilities are specifically developed for disabled people in order to participate in normal play, sport or leisure activities. So it's good if children can use the tools at a young age and as quickly as possible. Yes, it's almost a prerequisite, they should be able to participate in activities in the same way as other children. We know that physical activity is essential for good health, especially for groups with different disabilities. This point – to get activity started as soon as possible – is also below the issue we are dealing with today. Because when the device needs to be adapted to the individual, it is important that it is done quickly and correctly. The second aspect of the case is the distance some users have to their assistance centre. Where the distance is large, it can be more challenging to get good follow-up. Today's system is as far as I know a good system, which aims to reach those who need help. A comprehensive monitoring of the handling of cases by assistance centres has been carried out and the individual user is to be met in such a way that the needs of users are governed by the tools offered. The draft representative claims that many users receive inappropriate or inadequately adapted tools. If this is true, it's serious. Not only is the community funds wasted, but the individual user is not allowed to participate in the activities as desired – which is actually the goal. The cancellation has been given insurance in the letter from the Council of State that there is no reason to believe that the claims are correct. Nevertheless, the Council of State writes that it will be examined in more detail. I can therefore see no reason today for changes to the scheme or for my own actions to be implemented. But I also assume that the Council of State will come back to Stortinget if new information is to be provided otherwise. Once again, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his good work on the committee, and thank the representative, Mr Kjeseth, who is making an important point.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2087	I can also join the thanks to Kjeseth, who takes up an important matter for many. Aid is essential to enable people with disabilities to function in their everyday lives, to live independent lives, to participate socially and to contribute to local communities. The alternative to aids is that many will need more practical assistance or become more isolated. Today, we have help centres with sound expertise that work well with the municipalities. The working party believes that this organisation needs to continue. We know that physical activity is important both for the health of the disabled and for the health of the disabled. There was a background for the Stoltenberg Government to extend the activity aid scheme to persons over 26 years of age. Should users of such equipment have good offers, the offer must be both close enough and good enough. Technological developments in this area are significant. But there is probably also a need to develop more equipment over time. Then we need a central link that can contribute to development. The proposal proposes a pilot project for outpatient adaptation of activity aids at a distance. It is difficult for us to get at the heart of this proposal, but let me say the following: we are for spending money as efficiently as possible, and that if today's system means over-exploitation of institutions, as the proposal may suggest, we support the fact that it facilitates more use of money locally. We also share the view that physiotherapists and aid centres need to cooperate more closely so that the tools can be adapted to the individual user. But according to the Government's response, there is nothing to prevent this from happening today. Then, perhaps, the concern is that adults using activity aids are not a group that is prioritised in the Council’s letter of assignment to the Directorate of Labour and Welfare in terms of resources. We look forward to the Council of State monitoring in this matter, and I expect the Council of State to come back with that mapping in Prop. 1 S, with results, so that we can then see if there is a need to introduce other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2101	Physical activity is important for maintaining good health. I think we can all agree on that. At the same time, there are some major challenges and needs for the organisation of activities than others in order to be able to participate. This can be done by adapting activity aids. The present representative’s proposal by Mr Ketil Kjenseth on out-of-patient adjustment of activity aids for children is important because activity aids can be a very necessary contribution to the activity of both children and adults with disabilities and to increased independence and quality of life through participation. As others have referred to, it was in a letter dated 25 April 2017 that the Council of State explained how the arrangements work today. The proposal states that many users are given activity aids that are inappropriate and inadequately adapted. This is serious if the claim is correct. This will mean that users are not allowed to take part in physical activity and thus miss out on health and social benefits of such activity. However, in her letter, the Council of State shows that she is not aware of the existence of studies or research supporting this. At the same time, a willingness is signalled that the Directorate of Labour and Welfare should examine the issue more closely. It is also underlined that at this stage there is no basis for making changes to the scheme. Based on the response of the Council of State, the right cannot support the proposal of the minority. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is important to have a continuous assessment of how activity aids are used, in order to have as much as possible a richer life and the possibility of participation in physical activities. If you look at the future, you know that there are great technological opportunities that allow you to live full lives. Considerable attention must also be paid to the child’s best and precisely what children themselves experience as good aids.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2113	I would like to thank you for many fine words about Mr Ketil Kjeseth's proposal for a representative, which unfortunately could not be included in the debate today. Unfortunately, there was not so much support to the proposal itself. It is true that the adaptation of activity aids to children today often occurs at longer intervals in a few institutions. For most people, it means that a whole family, with parents and siblings, has to stay outside the world from two to four weeks. It combines as much advice as possible with rehabilitation, training and other activities. But essentially, there's testing and customization of activity aids that it's up to. The proposal from the Left and the representative, Mr Kjeseth, is based, among other things, on the wish. from the national professional community of Beitostølen health sports centre to try out a new model for adaptation, where the family stays in institutions for a shorter period of time and gets more custom guidance, with experiments in their own home – in the aquatic environment – through new communication technologies. Today there's a lot of money going to bed places, food and rest for a whole family. With more customization in the world, more money can go to professional guidance and customization, so that the help is optimally adapted to the environment and used as much as possible. In practice, this means that some of the funds will be rotated from one stop to another. tariffs for out-of-patient customisation via consultations, for example, tablets and digital aids. Such bets, and the use of new technology, are little widespread in these services today. So to the representative Aasrud who called for the essence of this with the help of distance: this is the essence. Remote follow-up is developing in the health and care sector. In particular, the national project with distance-follow-up for chroniclers, negotiated by the Left in the State budget for 2015, already shows very good results. The participants gain more insight into their own situation and health, and it reduces the number of hospital admissions. Another example is the Sunnaa Hospital, which is investing heavily in using new technologies in specialised training and rehabilitation. I would like to thank you for a lot of good words, but I think it is a little strange that neither the Right Party nor the Labour Party support the proposal that is being presented. Perhaps the Labour Party, which has launched that we should be the best in Europe on e-health by 2025, should actually praise and support such a small effort as this would be. But it probably shows that we have come in quite different ways, both politically and in different bureaucracy, in understanding and accepting the introduction of new technologies and adapting competences and resources to new opportunities. It is crucial that users are provided with the help and guidance for the selection and adaptation of tools. It contributes to increased activity and participation in the everyday life of even more people. Societies can also save large sums of money to ensure that users get the right resources at the right time, without the need for institutional rest. The Members who are behind the proposal I am now going to address, think that it may be useful to get a pilot project, with out-of-patient adaptation of the aid, and we have put forward proposals on it. I am pleased with the support of the Center Party, and I hope that we may be able to get support from even more people. With that, I will address the proposal that we have submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2133	The representative Rotevatn has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2138	Let me first stress that I fully agree with the proposer and the members of the Committee that activity aids can be a very important contribution to both children and adults with disabilities being active and achieving participation and independence. The backbone of the representative proposal is claims that experience over the past ten years has shown that many users are given activity aids that are either inappropriate or inadequately adapted. As I have also explained in my reply to the Labour and Social Committee, I am not aware that there are studies or research that prove this. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has correctly informed me that, in some cases, activity aids are returned to the assistance centres without having been used in particular. However, this may be due to other factors, such as: the need for the specific aid has not been sufficiently addressed. Activity aids are being disseminated today after extensive monitoring. The functional problems of the user, the user’s community environment and the competence of users, supervisors, the rehabilitation and rehabilitation services and the municipality have an impact on the handling of the individual case by the assistance centres. Today’s dissemination is thus characterised by the choice of different approaches depending on the circumstances of the specific case. It is uncertain whether there are today such challenges in the dissemination of activity aids to which the representative refers. We do not have sufficient knowledge to establish that there is a need to change the processes for the dissemination of such aids, and we therefore do not know which conditions should be improved. On this basis, I agree with the majority of the Committee, which cannot see that there are grounds for making changes to the system at this stage. However, I would like to look at the issues raised by the proposer. I have therefore asked the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to monitor how the dissemination of activity aids works today, and to assess current measures to improve any weaknesses in today’s dissemination system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2152	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2157	As I said in my article, we are very much because we spend the money in the best possible way. As the representative Rotevatn says, it may be possible to obtain more remote diagnostics, i.e. follow-up via iPads, telelines, etc. Can the Council of State say something about whether there's something to prevent it from doing today, with today's system, because that would be a reasonable way to spend money, and I'd also think it could give a better follow-up. But is there anything in today's legislation that prevents a follow-up through technology in today's system?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2163	As far as I know, there are no obstacles today. It's like the representative says, that this is one of the areas in which technological development is ripping. We might just see the contours of what will be possible in the area of assistance and assistance for people with disabilities in the time to come. But I am not aware that there are limitations to this today. Now I have asked the directorate to carry out a survey based on the claims made in the representative proposal, just to see if there is a need to make changes. I will be the first to come back to Stortinget if there is a need to make changes. I think we all agree that facilitating and helping people with disabilities – whether children or adults – will increase their access to society. We're all concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2172	I would first like to thank the Council of State for a very good article. The question of whether people get good enough adaptation today or not, will probably come a little bit to the eye that sees, and we might not come closer to a fasit here. What I want to follow up is the essence of the proposal, the need for and the desire to spend a little less time with parents, siblings and children in institutions to get a fit, and that it should be possible to adapt more to the local environment, through technology and remote adjustment. The council says in its answer to Aasrud that she is not aware that there are any obstacles to it today. Of course, there is no ban today, but the question is what are the funding keys and the back-up arrangements. In any case, as far as we know, it is the case today that, unfortunately, it is not well adapted when it relates to funds, for example. distance consultants set up to cover overnight stays, meals and lodgings, etc. Is the Council willing to look at it, in the work that has now been put to good use?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2180	Yes, there is a lot that Stortinget will be invited to discuss in the future. The review that I have now asked the directorate to do is something that can at least form the basis to see if there is a need to make some changes in that area. In addition, we have now received the settings from the Toolkit. It has been out for consultation, the consultation deadline has just expired, and I have not been given the opportunity to participate in all the hearings yet. However, that sample also proposes a number of changes in the policy on tools. It is clear that when we are going to review those hearings, we have as our starting point that we are going to present a separate case to the Stortinget. Then Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss this area in a wider sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2186	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2207	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2218	Storing message No. 22, Seas of foreign policy and development policy, is the first big bang message of its kind. For a country with a long coastline and a large sea area, it is very positive that the Storting is given this opportunity to discuss what opportunities and challenges the sea represents for our own country, and how much it means for international policy. I want to praise the government. It is not always this representative, nor is it always that a setting is the same as this setting. This shows that the government has a large majority in Stortinget behind it in the important work to do in the future. Governments are widely supported to step up Norwegian efforts to ensure sustainable use of marine resources, engage in maritime dialogues with other countries with objectives of clean and healthy seas and of growth in the blue economy, which is important for Norway, but also for the global community. UN Residency Objective No. 14 says that one should preserve and use the sea and marine resources in a way that promotes sustainable development. It is also clearly set in the same goal of eradicating poverty and poverty. The government's view of how we manage the sea plays a major role in achieving these goals. The role of the government in the global dialogue on fisheries and aquaculture will play a major role in global food security. Norway's trust in questions relates to how we manage resources in the sea in a resilient way. It is therefore positive that Norway takes a lead in this work. Particular importance is attached to the work of the UN Food Organisation Fisheries Committee [[FAO]] The safe seas are an undertaking to safeguard Norwegian marine interests. Good cooperation in NATO is important for Norway's security policy, including at sea. Security and high preparedness for undesirable events are essential for the Arctic communities and for good economic development in the north. Large initial investments in modern vessels and experience from marine fishing and oil business make Norway a leading player in the North when it comes to SAR preparedness. The Convention on the Law of the Sea constitutes the legal framework for Norway’s international cooperation on the protection and sustainable use of marine and marine resources. It applies both globally and regionally. Therefore, it is important that Norway has a strong commitment to strengthening the law of the sea, as the message adds. Norway has for a long time been a driver for putting global traffic controls and preparedness in polar waters. The northern seas are very important to our nation. Climate change can lead to new nutritional options and change fairways, and can make these areas even more important for Norway in the future. But climate change also has negative impacts on the marine environment, which is becoming more and more acidic. It's a tack against food security. Marine pollution is also an increasing international problem. It is very important that international cooperation on the reduction of marine litter and microplastics is closed. The United Nations Environment Assembly has taken up this challenge, and Norway is a driving force in this work as well. Norway, together with the Arctic countries, has a special responsibility for the Arctic and the work of taking care of life in the sea there. Norway must work for an international ban on heavy oil as a fuel in Arctic strip, as is done in Antarctica. New fairways can increase the pressure on the Arctic environment. A number of the Committee concluded that there was no oil protection system operating in Arctic strips. This work must therefore be intensified. It is positive that sound sound management of marine resources is also a clear theme of aid policy. The Aid Programme Oil for Development and Fish for Development are important initiatives where Norway has much to contribute over a long, long period of experience. Norway has been running the Nansen programme for more than 40 years in cooperation with the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations. It is an important and good contribution that Norway should continue to make. The Government has full support from the Committee to strengthen efforts for a viable blue economy in development policy and to strengthen the Fisk for the development programme. There are many heavy and important tasks in this field. The government has broad support both for putting these themes on the agenda and for intensifying work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2240	Next Thursday the World Oceans Day is marked, and this year's theme is about taking care of the future of the oceans by preventing pollution and plastic pollution. At the same time, the UN Marine Conference is being held in New York, the first of its kind. The world's country is coming together to follow up on the UN's sustainability goals for life in the sea. In a world where some countries seem to turn away from international cooperation and take less responsibility, Norway should do more to support international processes and take its own initiatives. World oceans are threatened by pollution, plastic and acidification as a result of climate emissions. Life in the sea is threatened. 30 pst. of the commercially important species are overfished and if no more stringent measures are taken, it is estimated that there will be more plastic in fish than in the sea by 2050. Already today, microplastics are found in all seas, from sea surfaces to bottom sediments. In the Arctic, microplastics have been found frozen into the sea ice. Despite the huge threat this poses, there is currently no international agreement dealing with measures to reduce marine pollution and the spread of microplastics. This is a defect that has to be corrected by responsible nations. It is good that the government has said that it will follow up the work of the United Nations Environment Assembly in this field, including with assistance. I would like to welcome the big message and I think the committee has done a good job, but we can do more. Leadership is needed. This is why the Labour Party wants Norway’s next major international initiative to be about seas. Norway has been out early on with major international efforts, such as vaccines and rainforests. This government has invested in girls' education. That's good -- we can show you the way. Our next initiative must address the broad global maritime challenges. That is why I am pleased that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV together are behind remarks where we have agreed that Norway must show leadership and make its own action plan, set its own agenda, get to work to ensure cooperation on marine health, that we have to go ahead here at home through annual cleaning-up sticks along the coast and in Norwegian waters, and that the monitoring of our beaches needs to be strengthened in order to get an overview of the extent of problems with sewage. In the archipelago outside Florø and Bergen, I have seen how the locals make a great effort to pick up plastic and other trash. I have participated in this work and found that much of this plastic is not Norwegian. It's coming with the ocean currents. So here we have a global problem, even if we are not free of responsibility either. I have also seen that there are huge amounts of plastic along the beaches, and that there is an increasing number of garbage where the local population has cleaned and picked. The problem is growing, and we have to do a lot more to change this development. The Labour Party believes that Norway has all the prerequisites needed to show its way and take leadership. We did it with the northern regions where we set a global agenda. We're a port: 80 pst. of us live less than two miles from the coast, and we have six times more sea and base than land. We have world-leading marine research, we have marine law experts, we've developed management plans for all of our oceans, unique in their kind, and many of Norway's leading industries are based on the oceans and oceans: fisheries, aquaculture, energy and oil and maritime sectors. We have research, business and government that cooperate well, and we have both foreign and development policies where oceans are a characteristic. Everything has its place in the value chain: from the coastal fisherman to the researcher to the developer of new species, catch and farming. But I now believe that we are on the threshold of something new. We've been farming for thousands of years, but aquaculture is still new. It's going to need more. 70 pst. of the Earth's surface is sea, but only 2 pst. food is produced in the sea and the world's population is growing. Such an increasing population will need more seafood, and Norway has great opportunities in aquaculture and fishing on one of the world’s best managed fish stocks. In Norway, more digitised, autonomous and sustainable shipping is also being developed, and we focus on marine energy, both oil and gas and renewables. So this debate is important. I congratulate the Foreign Minister on his communication. Our possibilities are great. But we don't reach the potential of these possibilities if we can't take care of the health of the sea. Saving the world's oceans from pollution and environmental damage must therefore be one of our most important projects in the coming years. The ambitions must always be to have the edge of ideas and knowledge, so that we bring others with us, and at the same time the ability to get more countries to participate concretely in the effort that needs to be made. We can't do it alone, but we can do it together, and Norway has to show leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2260	Like previous speakers, I want to commend the government for the work done to present its own maritime message. Our northern sea areas are our most important strategic areas. It is therefore particularly important for Norway that the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea – the Constitution of the Sea – be established. For Norway, strengthening and developing the law of the sea is a core interest. It is important for Norway as an energy nation, as an environmental nation, as a maritime nation and as a shipping nation — in short, it has great significance in many of our core areas. The principles of the duty of protection and the right of use of the law of the sea are particularly central. This government has led to a predictable and firm line in its security policy. It has also taken care of our interests at sea, which are more than just the law of the sea. It is also about the exercise of sovereignty, the exercise of authority, security, defence and alliance policies and the free movement of persons. The safe seas are a key prerequisite for Norwegian marine interests. The Coast Guard and the Marines perform their duties in our seas on a daily basis in an excellent way, through their daily presence, but also through exercises with our allies and through bilateral cooperation. This helps to ensure safety at sea, and it may be even more important in the years ahead. As the population grows, the need for maritime transport and resources from the sea will increase. The fact that we have clear rules and boundaries when we meet that need is absolutely crucial. Unexplained questions of jurisdiction can quickly become sources of conflict. The sub-line agreement with Russia is an example of how clarifying these types of issues can bring great benefits to both parties. We work well with Russia in a number of areas – in search and rescue, oil protection, nuclear safety, environmental protection, fisheries management and people-to-people cooperation. We should keep doing that. Contact and constructive cooperation in these areas are mutually beneficial and contribute to the continued low voltage and predictability of marine areas as well. But even though the northern regions have been characterised by low voltage, increased tension elsewhere in the world can also have an infectious effect on us in the north. The government is following developments in the northern regions closely. The sea areas are also an important strategic area for Russia. Norway is NATO in the north, as it is called. That's why we're going to continue to be a driver for NATO to take care of the maritime dimension and provide good situational understanding in the northern regions. It is gratifying that there is now agreement that the Member States should contribute more strongly to the fleet forces of the Alliance. The fact that we have a Norwegian frigate who heads NATO's maritime forces in 2017 shows that the government takes the region and our contribution to the alliance seriously, including at sea. I was recently at Svalbard with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. The visit gave us a good insight into the challenges, but also into the many opportunities available in the Arctic. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to promote cooperation between the Arctic states in this context as well. After the cold war, the Arctic states have largely had conflicting interests in the north. The level of tension has been low and successfully cooperated. At the same time, the Arctic is an area for which there has already been increased attention. We can expect that this attention will increase. We have already found together in cooperation on search and rescue – as I said – on research and banning commercial fishing in what is called the Central Arctic Sea until we have better knowledge. In the future, we need to look at the opportunities we get through modern technology, and how we can use it to make good use of marine resources, while at the same time taking care of environmental concerns. Norway should continue to make use of the opportunities offered by Arctic cooperation. Sea areas are and will continue to be important strategic areas for Norway. It is in our interest and in the interests of the other states to maintain peace and stability, which has been dominant for all years. The government's presentation of these kinds of messages contributes to this. With this message, we are putting forward a long-term strategy for how to manage our marine areas and deal with the other Arctic states. Other speakers from the Right will go deeper into the more specific areas mentioned in the Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2295	It is positive that for the first time the Stortinge will be given the opportunity to deal with a major maritime forecast in foreign and development policy. The government has to pay tribute to that. Norway has specific sea-related interests. For us, it is essential that resource use is sustainable, and that we reap no more than the ability of the sea to reproduce. The sea and seabed contain resources that we do not have an overview of today. The sea is also a prerequisite for international maritime trade and is therefore a prerequisite for a competitive market economy. The sea allows resources to move where they throw most of them, and contributes to growth and well-being across the globe. Historically, Norway is a significant maritime nation. We have continued that role for generations, and today Norwegian shipping companies have 5 pst. of the world's fleet, measured in value. This makes Norway the world's sixth largest merchant fleet. We can also add cruise speed, where we have everything from the Hurtigruten to the luxury cruise in the Mediterranean and elsewhere on the Earth. Norway is also a significant player there. We have shown that we are able to use the sea and ocean resources wisely in terms of both geographically dispersed value creation and coastal workplaces, and in terms of public welfare through fund-based placement of money obtained through the oil and gas industry. We all have the oil and gas industry to thank for our many public well-being goods. It is therefore essential that we pursue a petroleum policy which involves the continuous and expanded harvesting of oil and gas in new fields. Everything is related to everything, as a former prime minister expressed it, and international engagement is not free of charge. Norway is therefore totally dependent on oil and gas revenues if we are to have resources to influence maritime policy internationally. The need for food and energy is increasing rapidly. Many countries have an interest and need to harvest the sea. The need is beyond the ability of the sea to reproduce, and States and individual actors are therefore tempted to exploit marine resources in a way that does not give future generations the same opportunity. The sea is easily exposed to what has to be described as environmental crime. If the blue economy is to expand and allow more and more people to reap from the sea, it is necessary to protect the sea from pollution, marine trash and, in particular, plastic, as the representative Støre mentioned. When you talk about plastic in the ocean, it's actually a global virtue that's visible – as opposed to climate activities. You can do something about it, and you can measure it when you've done something about it. That's actually something you really have to deal with. It must also be protected against the destruction of the ecosystem. The law of the sea is absolutely essential to achieve this. Seas have no visible physical boundaries and food resources move completely independently of national rights. We are therefore totally dependent on a constitution that regulates activity and rights in a fair and fair manner, i.e. an international constitution. Clear maritime demarcation lines and compliance with the law of the sea are a prerequisite for peaceful cooperation in the future. The primary task of the Government is to safeguard Norway’s national interests. Clean and sustainable seas are part of this. It is therefore positive that the government strengthens the bilateral dialogue in order to share competences and to gain experience. More research is also needed into how different activities affect ecosystems, and not least how the ocean’s potential can be better exploited. It is important that the government has an offensive attitude in such maritime dialogues. The aim must be to seek ways of exploiting the marine resource potential to an even greater extent. Dialogues must be based on measures to increase growth and increase value creation. The Nordic regions are Norway’s main area of foreign policy interest. The potential for different forms of resource use is potentially significant. Greater activity in these areas could link presence and economic interests. I also want to add, as the representative Halleraker said, that Norway is NATO in the north. The defence of the sea is perhaps the most growing defence market in existence, and the use of the sea in defence is crucial if peace is to be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2315	Norwegian interests are inextricably linked to the sea. Our economy and well-being are directly linked to the development of marine resources. Internationally, we see increased attention around sea issues and the importance of the sea for the well-being and future of the planet. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the proposals put forward by the government in this communication, and thank you to the case rapporteur, not least, for a good job. The initiatives we will take in the future in this area are important, inter alia. on maritime dialogues, by exploiting the sea to an even greater extent as a resource. We're going from 7 billion people today to probably 10 billion people in 2050, and there's no doubt that we're totally dependent on getting more proteins out of the ocean to feed the growing population of the world. I believe that Norway has a unique starting point for taking such a leading role internationally. We have large and rich sea areas, our maritime governance is the best in the world, we are a leading operator in shipping – we are still the world's sixth largest shipping nation – offshore oil and gas, fishing and farming. We have close and good relations with tone-provoking coastal states, and the law of the sea, ensuring stability and predictability of sustainable management and economic exploitation of the sea. The Government will continue to pursue a security policy that takes care of Norwegian interests at sea. Norway, and the world, are worthy of stability and security around all activity at sea. This is the first communication to the European Council, which takes an overall approach to the role of the sea in foreign and development policy. The government is intensifying its efforts to promote Norwegian marine interests in three areas of intervention. The first is value creation and sustainable use of marine resources. The world's population is growing, as I mentioned, the pressure on the sea is increasing. We need the sea for food, maritime transport, energy and communication. In the long term, new industries such as the cultivation of seaweed, new farming species, medicinal products and minerals from the seabed may be emerging. We get the highest value creation if we take care of the sea and use the resources in a sustainable way. Norway shall contribute research-based knowledge, technologies and resources in international maritime management. Secondly, we must ensure clean and healthy seas. Pollution, plastic pollution, overfishing, loss of biodiversity and climate change threaten the sea. Although the state of the environment in Norwegian seas is generally good, we are not protected. Plastic pollution and environmental toxins are transported over long distances. The government will set up an aid programme to reduce marine litter and microplastics and will return to this in the State budget for the autumn. We must pay attention to your problems. An important part of the effort will therefore need to be directed towards Southeast Asia. Increased knowledge and awareness, better infrastructure and beach clearance are important for removing waste from the sea. A global effort has to be just another. In the UN Environment Assembly, we take a leading role in stepping up efforts against plastics and microplastics. Next week, Norway, in cooperation with Indonesia, is holding a partnership dialogue on marine pollution at the United Nations’ major maritime conference in New York. Thirdly, we want to focus more on the blue economy in development cooperation. For many countries in the south, the sea offers great opportunities for development. Norway is well positioned to contribute. Demand for Norwegian competence is high. We want to increase the allocation of the Fish Development Programme. We will work to increase the emphasis on fisheries and aquaculture in the effort to ensure global food security. I value what I see as broad consensus in the Storting on the challenges outlined, and the measures and priorities that the notification sets out. Norway has global credibility in maritime issues. With the announcement, the government has set out the course for Norwegian leadership in international maritime issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2335	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2340	A little bit about what the Foreign Minister said. The Minister of Foreign Affairs spent a little time on the Law of the Sea, i.e. the Constitution of the Sea. My question is, to what extent does the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Government worry that the Constitution of the Sea is being challenged by several countries in the South and East China Seas, as I have at least perceived the conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2346	With the permission of the representative, I could imagine turning it around and focusing as much on the latitudes that the representative represents, where one actually sees that the law of the sea is respected. We have seen in the major maritime areas where Norway has a responsibility, which is six to seven times greater than our land areas, in cooperation with the Arctic, a compliance with the law of the sea – also by nations that have not formally ratified the Convention on the Law of the Sea. It's important. This is the driving rules for inter-country cooperation, and we encourage all nations to deal with the Constitutional Law of the Sea. There could be concrete conflicts between different countries, and we have no tradition of going into that if we are not a party to the case ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2353	I really just wanted to follow up my colleague Simensen on the law of the sea. It is true, as the Foreign Minister says, that we have a sea area of six – not to say seven – times the size of our territory, and it is very important that it is regulated precisely by the law of the sea. We are also a NATO country in the north, and it is true that for us the sea is also important for security policy, as the representative Tybring-Gjedde underlined. I think we see trends, and I sometimes feel – and not necessarily just in the South China Sea – that some countries in Europe do not know what the law of the sea actually means to us, what it regulates. Among other things, we have seen trends that the European Parliament and others have actually suggested that a treaty for both Svalbard and elsewhere would be in place. I wonder if the Minister for Foreign Affairs would say a little about what challenges lie there?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2361	Thank you for an important question. I think that we can all further inform about both the law of the sea in general, what goes on development goals related to the law of the sea, and the part of Norway called Svalbard. We have mainland Norway, and then we have Svalbard. This applies to the Svalbard Treaty and gives equal rights in and on Svalbard. But we also have a continental shelf in Norway, and it's in this interface out to 12 nautical miles and beyond 12 nautical miles we're dependent on increasing understanding of that issue, among other things. of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2369	In addition to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has just said, there has also been a debate in the European Parliament on, among other things, a treaty for the Arctic. It is important from a Norwegian point of view, I think, that we, as Norwegian politicians, are very clear and precise that to us it is the law of the sea that applies, and it should not be challenged. So I would like to ask to what extent the Foreign Minister also gets to clarify it when he meets his colleagues.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2375	We have recently had a meeting of the Arctic Council, where the foreign ministers of the Council's permanent members met. There is no doubt that what is also the basis for cooperation in the Arctic Council is the law of the sea. It is also added to the Finnish Presidency in their work. I may have realized that there are some different attitudes to this with protection areas. Through the hundreds of years of use of our areas in the north, we have shown that it is possible to combine protection and use. Take the Barents Sea, which is one of the cleanest and richest oceans in the world: it's fishing, it's shipping, and it's oil and gas exploitation, but it's done in a sustainable way. Severe protection areas in which there should be no activity are not relevant for a country where 10 pst. the population lives north of the Arctic Circle. There must be something to live on too.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2383	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2388	I must also start by saying that it is a good and interesting big message that we are dealing with today. The other day, the Stortinget and our committee had a visit from President Tommy Remixesau of the Palau Islands, far out in the Pacific. When you look at the map, you can see how important the sea is to the 22,000 inhabitants of the island group. Like many other coastal states, Palau is highly dependent on sustainable management of the sea. And why do I take the time to talk about Palau and not the north, which I might want to focus more on? The answer is simple, because the importance of the sea is global. Norway and Palau have many common interests summed up in the words climate, environment and sea and have a common responsibility and interest in providing content to the term «sustainable seas». It made a strong impression to meet the president, who told in such clear order that his people already notice the climate change on the body in the form that the sea level is rising, and that the island is actually at risk of disappearing into the sea. It's dramatic, but unfortunately it's a reality that we all have to embrace. A unanimous committee takes this seriously and points out that climate change has a negative impact on the marine environment, as many speakers have pointed out so far in the debate. Not only is the sea getting more acidic and warmer while threatening the food security of life both in the sea and on land, climate change also has dramatic consequences for very many people by literally disappearing from their homes and homes in the sea. Again, Norway and Palau share a shared responsibility and not least an interest in reducing global CO2 emissions in the fight to ensure a sustainable marine environment. Sustainable management of the sea is important, but sustainability can also be linked to respect for international rules on the use of the sea. In this context, compliance with the law of the sea is very important. The seabed was also the theme of the line change instead. I think the Foreign Minister gave good answers, but nevertheless it is important to mention it in this debate. It's not something that's just going on over there, it's also going to concern us to the greatest extent. In this connection, I have in mind the illegal fishing for snow crabs in our sea areas around Svalbard. We see in this connection that Norwegian law in the sea areas around Svalbard is challenged by, among other things. EU. I support the government's clear message in this matter, and it is also not difficult to understand that both this government and previous governments are very clear when they point out that it is a core interest for Norway to strengthen and develop the law of the sea. Clear maritime demarcation lines and compliance with the law of the sea are important prerequisites for peaceful cooperation between nations both today and not least for the future. The health of the sea has become a major national and international issue. We all remember the terrible images of the whale that had their stomachs full of plastic. Unfortunately, it's not an isolated event. It's just to establish that our nearby sea areas are congested. There is no doubt – something has to be done, someone has to take responsibility. And who are they? Well, that's each of us. But it will help considerably that the government with good support from among others. The Workers' Party will raise this important work to an international level. We must work to reduce marine litter and microplastics, which have become a major problem for life in the sea. The Labour Party also points this out in our comments on the Communication, where we say that Norway should take an international leadership and initiative, on its own account, in cooperation with our Nordic friends, and that that initiative must lead to an action plan to ensure cooperation on marine health. ‘Irregular fishing is theft of the community. It's the theft from our mattress and a threat to the marine resources." This is what Mr Per Sandberg said this morning. He has got a lot of pepper from many teams in my home country lately, but in this context he deserves a slap on his shoulder. Former Fisheries Minister Helga Pedersen did a formidable job of stopping illegal fishing in his time, and that it is followed up by today's government, is very good. We're talking about huge amounts of crazy money. The World Bank suggests that there are global amounts up to NOK 700 billion per year. That it worries many, is not hard to understand, and it was also taken up by a concerned president from Palau. That's understandable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2409	The sea holds great opportunities, for Norway and for the world. The world's population is going to increase by over two billion people by 2050. The need for marine resources, such as food and energy, will only increase, and the potential for future sustainable growth in marine industries is high. At the same time, there is cause for concern about environmental problems such as pollution and pollution, climate change and unsustainable use of the sea, and I am thinking in particular of overfishing. Norway will intensify its efforts to combat illegal fishing and fishing crime and will be a driver for further states to accede to the UN port State agreement against illegal fishing. In addition, the government will work to increase the importance of fisheries and aquaculture in global food security efforts. Sustainable use of marine resources and value creation can make important contributions to more of the UN's sustainability objectives. Norway will make sustainable use of the sea a global priority, for it is international cooperation that is the key to addressing the challenges we face. Environmental problems such as plastic siblings threaten life in the sea. We remember the sad thing about the sick whale that was stranded on Sotra, which had to be killed. That's why it's important for the government to set 100 million. to a specific assistance programme for the control of marine litter and microplastics. When we think about how important oceans are to large parts of the world's population, this should be a global priority. Norway will now take a leading role for clean and healthy seas. It is good that the government will launch maritime dialogues with the countries concerned in order to share experience and expertise and cooperate on clean and healthy seas, sustainable use of resources and growth in the blue economy. Norway will strengthen the dialogue with countries that are to be heard on how shipping can further contribute to environmentally friendly transport. The Nordic regions are Norway’s main foreign policy area of interest and are highlighted in the Communication. The opportunities for industrial development here, including in the maritime food sector and in the oil and gas sector, are increasing. At the same time, marine areas in the north are undergoing major changes as a result of global warming. In the revised national budget, the government has proposed to set aside 5 million. kr to a new competence centre for sea and Arctic issues in Tromsø. With this, we can get an important pre-miss provider for Arctic-relevant maritime competence and policy. It was good that this staging message was presented on board the floating new research ship «Dr. Peace thief Nansen» right after Godmother Erna Solberg had baptized the ship. Like its two predecessors of the same name, ‘Dr. Fridtjof Nansen» sail with UN flags and contribute to marine research and sustainable fisheries management for African and Asian countries. This is a top modern research ship with enough capacity for 30 researchers to work on board. The ship is loaded with the highest in Norwegian scientific technology, such as the echo sound systems and sonars from Simrad, owned by the Kongsberg Group. A new agreement now extends the Nansen programme, a Norwegian assistance programme promoting responsible fisheries management. The programme was launched in 1975 together with the very first Nansen vessel and has operated in more than 60 developing countries. At its many paces in Africa, Asia and Latin America, the Nansen vessel has collected a great deal of data from ocean ecosystems. The marine ecosystems are threatened. The main threats are fishing practices that are not sustainable, pollution, climate change and a limited capacity to deal with these impacts. Knowledge, such as: The Nansen programme provides, is the basis for managing fisheries in a sustainable way. The Government will increase the allocation to the Fish Development Programme to meet the high demand for the knowledge and management experience of Norway. That's good. The Storting Communication strongly escalates Norwegian efforts for sustainable seas. This year, over 5 billion will. be applied to climate action over the aid budget, which will help to counteract the negative impacts of climate change at sea. Norway will cooperate with international organisations and other countries to ensure that the funds are used in a targeted way. There is no doubt that Norway has competence, knowledge and technology that demand a great deal of international attention. Nor is there any doubt that this communication has aroused a positive international interest. This I was last confirmed in a meeting of Europe's Foreign Affairs Committees, COSAC, when I was in Malta this week, discussing the European Commission's initiative for a new comprehensive maritime policy for the European Union. The Commission has many of the same priorities as the Government in its maritime communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2431	The sea has given us Norwegians good reason to be proud of our past, and it also gives us good reason, in my opinion, to look forward to the future. Norway is today one of the world's leading ports, with marine industries accounting for about 70 pst. of our export income. We are one of the world's leading oil and gas exporters, we are one of the world's leading shipping nations, and not least we are the second largest exporter of fish and seafood. Globally, significant growth in marine nutrition is expected. The OECD report ‘The Ocean Economy in 2030’ shows that much of the growth in those industries where Norway already has a competitive advantage. The world needs more food, more energy and more transport. I'm proud when I read this big message, and not least when I see all the good comments from the committee in the setting - the committee is basically the whole thing. This testifies to the fact that we in Norway are able to play an important role in the development of the marine economy. One of the world’s challenges is to balance the need to increase productivity against the need for greater protection of the marine resource base. It is therefore important that Norway, as a leading port, actively participates in international work affecting the use and exploitation of marine resources. The government also recently launched a maritime strategy, "New Growth, Proud History". The strategy shows us how our generation should be able to take us forward so that we, as a nation, are best placed in the marine industry. The OECD estimates that sea-based industries can double their contribution to the global economy in 2030. At the same time, the sea is under pressure because of congestion, overfishing, climate change and other conditions that are mentioned earlier here today. The opportunities given to us by the sea are not realized by itself. It requires long-term investment. Authorities shall contribute to a framework that can stimulate sustainable and profitable development in marine industries. A future growth in the marine economy requires that we think whole-heartedly and globally and work to ensure that we all manage and exploit the sea in a resilient way. Norway is the leader of marine knowledge, resources and the allocation and management of these resources. We have a world-leading research and innovation environment, and the main competitive advantage we have is perhaps all of our good, knowledgeable employees – both in the oil sector, among seafarers, in fisheries and in coastal farming – with very high levels of competence when it comes to exploiting the sea. I would like to mention Knut E. Sunde in Norwegian Industry and his comment on the government's announced development concessions in aquaculture. He said that this was the best industrial policy response seen in decades. There's evidence that we're on the right path here at home, also seen from the industry. Governments have also invested heavily in maritime nutrition and, through the Blue Growth for the Green Future strategy, have pointed to more than 70 measures to strengthen Norwegian maritime competitiveness. It is very gratifying to see that government's policy also works in that sector. Norwegian maritime shipbuilding and equipment industry is developing new electric ferries and boats and new, larger low-exploitation ships. Color Line, e.g., should build a new cruise ship here in Norway based on low-emission solutions. The Norwegian shipping industry is highly signalled by the Paris Agreement and has ambitions to make environmental matters a competitive advantage of Norwegian shipping, although the Paris Agreement does not include the shipping industry. The government's policy has resulted in many Norwegian ships choosing to fly home to Norway. I'll take a look at Hans Sande, Director of the Marine Corps. He said to TV 2: ‘Not since 1993 has anything been done to strengthen the conditions for Norwegian seafarers on NIS ships ‘deep sea’. This was the piece lacking in the political effort to ensure the international competitiveness of Norwegian seafarers, as well as ensuring Norway’s leading position in key international shipping markets.’ Not only in the market itself, but also in international organizations, we are noticed by the efforts of this government. I feel confident that we are on the right track to secure our position as one of the world's leading ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2456	This message is good and necessary and is given a lot of praise by the speakers who have been in the Chair. Resilient use of marine resources has its own basic law, which many have been under, through the law of the sea. But with the challenge we see today with large amounts of plastic and microplastics, we need new international laws. We are witnessing today, threatening actually the food resources that we care about, so safeguarding national interests is also important when a shelter of resources in the sea. In this context, it is important for those who absorb resources in the sea to feel confident that Norwegian authorities are doing what is necessary and to set it up when necessary. The reconnaissance radar ‘Remøy’ was arrested by the Russian Coast Guard on 10 May, as a result of errors in the licence documents. The vessel applied for a licence through the Fisheries Directorate to fish in the Russian zone. The application for a licence through the Directorate of Fisheries is a normal procedure and a matter between Norwegian and Russian authorities. The vessel was licensed by the Directorate of Fisheries and has daily reported on the catches of both Norwegian and Russian fishing powers. Since the fleet layer only applied for a license for shrimp fishing, there was no reason to believe that the licence was not valid. At the end of the fishing, the trawler was taken to Murmansk, where Russian authorities put forward a requirement for bail of approx. Ninety million. kr for the boat to release, followed by the Russian judicial system. The amount of the security requirement is neither proportional to the catch value on board nor to the basis of international maritime law. The reiar layer has documented the catch value on board, sold in the Norwegian market. In the legal documents, Russians operate with a much higher sal value. This boat has a total crew of 34 people, 17 at each turn. The ship has almost full cargo and was on its way to Norway for unloading and crew change after five weeks at sea when they were arrested. For the crew and the crew team, the arrest led to a dramatic situation, in addition to the psychological burden of being arrested when they have done everything they should and followed normal procedures. The team was on its way home after five weeks at sea, and for the shipowners' team it was about huge financial losses. Daily lost catch value has been estimated at approximately 500000 kroner. In addition, other costs will be incurred, as well as any withdrawal of capture value and fines. Furthermore, it would not be possible for the fleet layer to recover the lost catch value. Now this thing has pulled out in time, so finally now nine of the crew have traveled home last week. The remaining eight on board have key functions, and therefore, in consultation with the crew, the team has chosen to keep them on board, while waiting for a clarification with the following return journey for the boat and the rest of the crew. Norway cannot accept that the reactions of Russian authorities are disproportionate to the error made in completing the licence form, which is the reality of this case. There was a mistake, and of course we have to accept a reaction from the Russian side. On the other hand, we must avoid the fact that unscrupulous errors, also made by the Directorate, will have such dramatic consequences for Norwegian vessels fishing in the Russian zone, and the corresponding ones for Russian vessels fishing in the Norwegian zone. The result of the Russian treatment of ‘Remøy’ shrimp trawler is that Norwegian vessels will no longer see the value of reciprocal zone access for Norwegian and Russian fishermen. This could have very negative consequences for fisheries cooperation between Russia and Norway. So the question that remains is: what does Norway do in this context, and what does the Foreign Minister do to resolve this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2480	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2499	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2518	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward, by Mr Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of the Left. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. One, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for VAT compensation or a reduction in VAT on traditional crafts and cultural crafts.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2537	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 3 from the left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure more grant schemes through the State Arts Grant and the Norwegian Crafts Institute, in order to strengthen the self-development and dissemination of both young and older traditional craftsmen and cultural workers.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to implement its own value creation programme with fresh funds and measures for traditional craftsmen, through increased project funding for Norwegian cultural funds.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2561	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2594	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Knutsen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ MARKER [Cross-Ref] bmEnd Quote Signs The Government asks the government to further develop and strengthen the existing investigation unit of the Health Authority and to adjust the mandate of the unit based on the proposal of the Arianson Committee’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2825	The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2837	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2849	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2858	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Tove Karoline Knutsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 4, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a regulatory requirement for physiotherapy and ergotherapy competence in nursing homes and to establish a national grant scheme to ensure sick home positions contributing to increased activity.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2887	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a grant scheme with earmarked funds of at least 40 million. SEK per year for activities for people with memory impairment or dementia. The grant shall be available to municipalities and/or counties and must be in addition to the ordinary resources allocated to day-time activities for elderly residents with dementia.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests the launch of a three-year pilot project in at least three counties, with a grant of up to 5 million. kronor per year per county, within the proposed scheme of activities as described in Document 8:51 S [[2016-2017]] The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2911	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the grant rate for the establishment of day-to-day activity venues from 30 per cent to 50 per cent, and for an obliging plan to ensure that all residents with dementia are offered daily activity space.’;» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2944	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party the proposals No 2-4, from Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 5, from Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose a common minimum rate of care pay, as well as national guidelines ensuring geographical equality in the scheme.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e2973	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2-4, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to start as soon as possible a survey of the human rights situation in Norwegian nursing homes, where residents themselves and their relatives are sources as well.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a review of the systems for the control of – and review of – the rights of hospital residents.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make resources available for voluntary work to support human rights work in the care of the elderly.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3002	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for concrete action to be taken by the government to prevent abuses in hospitals through enhanced staffing and better training of employees and to ensure that basic knowledge of human rights is included in the training and training of employees.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3050	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 4, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a contingency plan for the provision of school and health services in the municipalities and to ensure an equivalent offer across the country through ringing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3074	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests legal requirements for examinations at the health centre, for the smallest children, to be carried out without clothing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3089	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a legislative amendment that gives municipalities an obligation to check whether children who repeatedly do not meet for health centre control receive follow-up elsewhere in health care.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a legislative proposal that obliges municipalities to follow up children who do not meet for health centre checks and who do not receive follow-up from other health services.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3123	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced support for the recommendation. The Procedural Party has notified subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3149	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward, from Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure that the ISF is not continued at health business level, hospital level and department/clinical level as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks for consistent code practices based on the patient’s diagnosis and treatment process.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start a thorough evaluation of ISF funding for Norwegian hospitals and how this affects code practices and priorities in the specialist health service.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan to change the financing of the Norwegian specialist healthcare service, the aim of which is to ensure that hospitals are largely financed.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3199	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Bente Stein Mathisen on behalf of the Right and Advance Party proposal No 2, from Sveinung Rotevatn on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left the proposals No 3 and 4, from Sveinung Rotevatern on behalf of the Workers' Party, Left and Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5-8, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 9, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2 was withdrawn during the debate because it is identical with the same point in the setting. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on Working Environment is amended as follows: Paragraph 2 A-3 is replaced by the following: Employers’ obligations to develop such procedures in the establishment.’ [[2]] [[2]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3240	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5-8, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: «In the Work Environment Act, the following changes are made: Paragraphs 1 to 7 shall be replaced by the following: posted worker means a worker working for a period of up to 30 days in a country other than that to which the employment normally relates.» [[1]] [[1]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asked the government to submit proposals for amendment to the labour law with reference to the definition of collective bargaining agreement in the Labour Dispute Act’. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for changes to the labour law so that the central review of the law is defined in Section 1, as is done in the Labour Dispute Act’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for changes to the labour law in order to define or refer to the definition laid down in other law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3275	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3 and 4, from the Labour Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to return to the Storting with proposals to ensure that posted workers are covered by the safety and health at work laws». Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether a clear limit should be set on how long a work relationship can last before posted workers are covered by all the rules of the labour law and come back to Stortinget with any proposals for amendments’. The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3292	The centre party must also vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3298	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3310	The Committee had called upon the Grand Duchy to take such a decision to:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3437	In the first place, there is an alternative between the Committee's setting up a new Section 2 A-3 and proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. [[2]] Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Working Environment Act shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 2 A-3 is replaced by the following: The employer always has obligations to draw up such procedures if the activity regularly employs at least 10 workers.» [[2]] [[2]] The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced support for the vote. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3460	The second sentence of Section 10-11 of the first paragraph is then added to the fifth paragraph of Section 10-12. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3474	It goes over the rest of the Roman numerals and the rest of the paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3485	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3495	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3529	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3541	Since several representatives have notified that they have voted incorrectly, the President will take this vote again. So the Socialist Left Party has to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3553	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3566	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3575	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Sveinung Rotevatten on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The proposal sounds. ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a national pilot project on outpatient adaptation of activity aids and distance follow-up aimed at children with disabilities.’ The Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-01.ana.ud70e3650	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
