ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e98	The representative Ingebjørg Amanda Vosskensen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the Province of Buskerud: Laila Gustavsen For Hedmark County: Thor Lillehovde For Oslo: Vegard Gröslie Wennesland For the counties of Sogn and Fjordane: Marianne Øren
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e124	The representative, Mr Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e129	I have the honour to make a proposal by the representatives of the Magnificent Hadia Tajik, Lene Vågslid, Ferhat Güven and myself to ensure the implementation of the reform of the neighbourhood police in line with Stortinget's intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e134	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after that date. 1-3 has been completed, and then total voting following case No. 4 to 15 at the end of the day’s meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 3 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e180	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 hours and 30 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 70 minutes, Right 60 minutes, Progress Party 35 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a sequence change be made of up to four lines with replies to the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e193	I have the feeling that there is going to be a historic day, no matter what decision the Stortinget has to make today, linking both to the municipal reform, for which I am the case spokesman, and to the regional reform, which we are dealing with in parallel. It will be incorporated into a series of historical decisions starting back in 1837, when we got the presidential laws in Norway and got local self-government in the whole country. We know the history: we start the journey for local democracy with a little over 400 municipalities. Then it added up in the 1930s, when we had a maximum of 747, before one had the big last municipal reform based on the Schei Committee's treatment and position, which led to a walk from 744 to 454 municipalities when one was finished in 1967. It is the last major municipal reform carried out in Norway before this enlargement took place, and the local politicians in Norway got their wish fulfilled by a municipal reform. It is important for me to say that the initiative for a local reform has not come from the accumulation and government, but it has come from local politicians in Norway, who at the national meeting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed to program formulations that recognise the need for a local reform. It forms the basis for this great majority to invite us to a municipal reform, which the local politicians in Norway have taken up and made a solid effort to discuss how we should equip ourselves to create strong municipalities for the future. So first of all, I want to thank local politicians in Norway for taking this opportunity and making sure to look forward and discuss how to equip yourself to provide good business and community services. We have been working with the municipal reform throughout this period, and we have had a consistent line, namely that Stortinget has a superior responsibility to ensure that Norway is properly divided. Therefore, there was a broad plurality at Stortinget that was behind the need for municipal reform and neighboring talk. The principal lines were outlined in the 2015 local authority proposal setting, where one said: ‘Derogations from this principle of volunteering may, however, be applicable in very special situations in which individual municipalities are unable to stop changes that are appropriate for regional reasons.’;» It has been our premise since one day, and I am very pleased that today we are presenting a position which takes care of what we have always said, that the general rule has our voluntary character, but that, in exceptional cases, the Storting can make decisions that go beyond individual municipalities, but which are well founded on regional considerations. Now, when we sum up the reform, it means that 121 municipalities are merged into 47 new municipalities, which means that we go from 428 municipalities at the beginning of this period to 354. In other words, more is happening in this ageing period – in these four years – than it has happened in 50 years before. In general, it is based on local leadership and local decisions. The only thing that has happened in the history of the last 50 years more than will happen here today is decisions across local decisions, for there was a chance to set a stronger record in the 1990s. Gunnar Berge was then the municipal minister, and Stortinget made 14 decisions across local decisions. It was probably just the decisions one made in the municipal reform. So today we're making fewer, because this reform is based on volunteering. We want to make sure that 32 pst. by the inhabitants of Norway will have new municipalities to live in from 1 January 2020, 1,68 million Nordics will then live in a new municipality. In addition to those who have now found each other and were some about a new municipality, there are many municipalities that have been positive. A total of 156 municipalities have said that they want to become a new municipality. Nearly two thirds of the people of Norway live in a municipality that has been positive. When we look at the party colors locally, we see that there are not the same dividing lines there as there is in this room in the municipal reform. We see that Center Party rapporteurs – in fact, a quarter of them – live in a municipality that will be new from 1 January 2020. We see that 68 Labour Party spokesmen have voted for their municipality to be part of a new municipality, and we see that spokesmen in all parties have taken leadership. So locally, we see that all party colors have contributed to the creation of a stronger municipal structure. It's interesting to register. We also have a proposition today that goes on tasks for the municipalities. For the Progress Party, it is important to move tasks down to where people live in the district. The services are supposed to be close to people. We are dedicated to giving new tasks and more trust in municipalities. Maybe trust is the most important thing. I myself have been our spokesperson for ten years and experienced then – I should not say lack of trust, but that the state had a great need to review local decisions by the statesmen. It was still contradictions, etc. From County. There's a dramatic change with this government, which gives confidence. We look at the statistics, mainly the county officials won things in the red-greens' time, but now under this government local democracy wins most of the complaints of the department. So we've given municipalities more than one task and more trust. Regional reform will also be addressed today. There I must be clear that it is primarily the Christian People's Party and the Left who are keen for a regional reform and who have brought us with us subsidized to a regional reform. It's no surprise to anyone that the Progress Party ideally thinks that a country with a little over five million people could cope with strong municipalities and the state. We can do without the rule, but it wasn't a plurality for that line, and then we have chosen to contribute rather to having about 10 regions or districts instead of today's 19, with the reason that we'll get less money for administration and for politicians' wages, which we'll follow up through this regional reform. A little bit of clarification for us to put in a loose proposal on behalf of the four parties so that the district division in North Norway will also be drawn today. It was originally in the setting of the municipality proposal, but the cleanest thing to do is to take the whole regional reform today. That's why there's a loose proposal on the table today. Finally, I would like to say that it is an important day for Kommune-Noreg. It shows interest in the community reform. The reason why we're doing that, we have to remind ourselves a little bit. It's not because it's important in itself to reach a certain number, but it's important to make sure that we have the right division of Norway to deliver good services, especially for those who need it the most. These are those who need specialized services from their local authorities, we think the most about when we discuss community reform. They're not the kind of people who want to write reading articles and stand high on the barricades, but they're the ones who need special services every day. We've had the most focus on. They depend on a professional environment that can solve their problems. It'll be too vulnerable if you only have one subject. We know that for the past 50 years, Kommune-Noreg has had a lot of new, demanding tasks. In the future, they will have even more important tasks to solve for the inhabitants. Then we are forced to ensure that we can have a large, strong professional environment that takes care of the inhabitants and those who need the most. Nor is it a secret that there has been a lot of traffic in recent years. A new national transport plan will take place even more so that the distances between municipalities have been smaller. There's a lot of money happening on the investment side, which means that the municipal boundaries that you had in the 1960s are not the right ones for the next 50 years. People who live in our country will be sure that we have a responsibility to make sure they get good services. We are still strengthening the local economy, but it is also a matter of ensuring that we have divided Norway as the local politicians have asked us to do, and as the local politicians have gone ahead to recommend the municipal structure on which the Stortinget is invited to decide. So we're going from 428 to 354 municipalities. I'm very happy with the work done in this period. Thanks to local leadership, we get a local reform and a municipal structure that provides the basis for delivering good services to our citizens. It's a good interaction between big business, government and local democracy that has led us here by putting good carrots at our disposal, and then has a local-based leadership. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e230	The representative Helge André Njåstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change. The representative has to come back, because it's a string change. The first replicator is Helga Pedersen. It's no use running away from her.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e239	No, it was supposed to work out!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e244	The party of progress claims on a number of occasions to be a party for most people, and they have previously thought that referendums should be used much more often to decide important issues. However, in the case of municipal structure, the representative Njåstad has warned against referenda because: ‘This is too complicated a case for a yes or no decision to be taken’. Although the Progress Party believes that these questions are too difficult for ordinary people to have an opinion on, most people have opinions on them. It is expressed both through their local populace and, as yesterday, with the poll that showed that there is only a small minority supporting the coup d'états in the north and in the new Viken region. Nevertheless, the Progress Party will overrun local democracy and regional democracy when the people have not given the answers they want. Why is the Progress Party elite better able to assess these questions than the people most?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e255	It was not intended to run from answering questions. I think it is nice that the Labour Party asks questions about public opinion – when in the 1990s they chose to ignore 96 pst. in Onsøy municipality, which said no, and yet joined Onsøy with Fredrikstad, there will be an appropriate question for us. We had a thorough treatment of this at our national meeting in 2013, when the party said that the Storting has a responsibility to divide Norway in a reasonable way. So we chose, through a compromise with the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right, to say that this reform is essentially based on local leadership, and it has the local authorities involved. So there are only a few exceptions – we're talking about ten municipal groups where Stortinget makes decisions that for some of its municipalities go across the community. But in many of them, the majority are local in the region for, so it's not really about us knowing better than people locally. Here it is local government that has taken the leading role in the municipal reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e262	It's a historic day today. We get many new municipalities that have volunteered to do this, and much of the background for it was a reward system that has stimulated municipalities to earn a living joining forces. We know that some of the schemes will last 15+5 years, plus a one-off grant and reform support. It has worked very well, but it has cost. So my question is, since life goes on now, what has the Progress Party been thinking about in terms of reward? We have seen that it probably works much better than forced, so I want to hear what the Progress Party thinks about reward schemes further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e269	I fully agree with the questioner that the reward arrangements that the governing parties together with the Christian People's Party and the Left have put in place have our good. In addition to what was at the beginning, I – as the representative is well aware – have strengthened them by means of infrastructure measures in the municipalities. The question is what will happen in the next period. I have chosen to focus most on this period and to land the municipal reform now. But I think that all the time large parts of Norway have not received the result of the municipal reform in the form of fewer municipalities, the Stortinget should discuss in the next period whether to continue to have reward schemes, so that the municipalities that are now seeing that the municipalities that have joined together become stronger and provide better services, can also come in the future and join together. But it will be up to the next big deal to decide on them. If a person is able to find rooms in the Norwegian economy for as good arrangements as one has in this period, I'm a little in doubt, because it's been a rusty arrangement The Stortinget has provided advice for those who join us today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e278	The government is going in to use force to merge some states, while others, like Oslo, Rogaland, More and Romesdal and Nordland, still have to stand by themselves. About More and Romesdal, it says to state ‘has several prerequisites for dealing with the role of self-governing municipality’. I agree with this of course, but I have to admit that it is difficult to understand why this applies to some states, and why it does not apply, for example. Akershus, Vestfold and Troms. What are the major advantages of the Advance Party that the inhabitants and municipalities of Akershus, Østfold and Buskerud will get from being merged into a new state? And why does the Progress Party believe that Oslo and Akershus are not natural merge candidates, for example.?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e288	I said in my main post that the Progress Party had lived well with zero county municipalities, because those tasks could have been solved by the state and the municipalities. Now there is no plurality for it, so we live better with about ten people, who can spend less money on administration and politicians and spend more money on further training, and that one takes more of the road maintenance on the county road network. We thought it was a more sensible use of money. Had it been up to us alone, we would of course have organized Norway in a smarter way, which would have meant that we had two levels. But then there's no plural for it. Then I register that the center party is busy that everything should be like it always has been. That line doesn't divide me. We can change things if one manages to get more money for service production and what the inhabitants are busy about, more than focus on administration and political wages.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e296	I think people living in Oppland, Hedmark, Akershus and Eastfold would have been quite surprised, not to say cursed – whether it is a parliamentary expression – to hear the chairman of the committee today, who says that they should be coerced together without really wanting to do so. They really want to be put down, and then you strip these units of work by halving the district policy instruments with which they could do a task for their areas, and developing them with nutrition development. They give big cities the opportunity to take public transport, and they want dental health to go away. Then there's almost nothing left. Why is the Progress Party at all not interested in what people in these states think? In my county, they don't know what's going on. In Finnmark, for example, I know they're pretty angry. What is the reason why the Progress Party does not care about public opinion in these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e303	I have done well for our view of regional reform and that we had lived very well without county councils. But we live with ten as a compromise, precisely because we want to spend more money on things that Andersen's representative was busy with, social development. What's closest to our heart is the county road network, which I think the inhabitants who live in the county municipalities are more occupied with. I think they're more concerned that we're making resources available to upgrade and build up the county road network than we're going to organise ourselves with a lot of county administrations, political selections, etc. And then I don't think most people have such a strong connection to their county -- the county and the constituency have a sense of identity attached, but the county doesn't care so much about most people. They're concerned that we have a good advanced education, that we have a good maintenance on the county road network. That's why we're making money available in the billions class to the county road network. And then we've prioritised transportation, and we've prioritised a little bit less regional development.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e308	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e313	When I was elected to the Stortinge for the second time almost four years ago, I had a clearly defined goal. That goal was to ensure the penetration of a regional reform that would bring more power out of this hall and more power out to the states of the country. I wanted to see a revitalization of the intermediate level, to see it flourish, as living meeting places where policies are designed and decisions made. The county councils should no longer be empty shells without the right and power to take their own decisions, nor should they be merely an instance of consultation documents. The county councils must become an important political arena where decisions are taken – and there are decisions that count. It's not without reason I've shown such commitment to the regional reform. I have seen for myself how little county self-government exists, how little freedom the county municipalities have to do tasks in the way they think is useful to their own inhabitants. When we send large-scale representatives who limit the role of county councils, they always do with the best intentions: this is too important to leave to county councils, this must be coordinated for the whole country. This is how we have demolished the county councils for an extension of state power. It can't be like that anymore, and I'm glad we're saying today that enough is enough. Centralization stops here. Several governments have tried a regional reform in the past, but among the cooperation parties only the Left and Christian People's Party wanted a further third. The two government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, would primarily abolish the county municipalities as a whole. This doesn't make it any less incredible that we have achieved the masterpiece that today we are carrying out the greatest post-war municipal reform, on the layers of two parties that would really want to abolish the county councils in their entirety. Fortunately, we have something more fundamental in common. It is the belief that society is growing from below and up, not from above and down – the belief that county differences require municipal responses, the consensus that power is going down and out to the people. This brought together the bourgeois parties around the regional reform with which we have today won. In order to defend the relocation of heavy tasks to county municipalities, it was important that they become larger and more robust. The professional environment had to expand, the economy improved and the population base strengthened. That's why we agreed to redraw the County Map. As a result, we now go from 19 to 11 counties. The criticism of the map has focused on individual regions, that not all new county municipalities are optimally fused, as one wishes. These critics don't see the forest for just trees. It's the whole thing that matters, it's the whole thing that makes it possible for us to move problems down and out to the county councils. This reform has laid a foundation, and if future governments are as courageous as we have been, then there are good opportunities for us to see further perfections of the County Map in the years to come. I don't dare say anything about what changes should come in the next round – otherwise it's quick to get quoted in DN on something you haven't meant to. This has become a democracy reform, and it has also become a red tape reform. We have changed the balance of power in Norway. We've given new impetus to the regional centres. At the same time, we move tasks from the IMFI, we move tasks from Innovation Norway, and we move tasks to the regional research funds – tasks that were previously solved nationally. In the fight against paragraph guessing, detailing and one-size-fits-all solutions, we are taking a big step in the right direction today. Having adopted a reform despite the fact that my party and the Christian People's Party constitute 19 mandates in this Chamber, is in many ways a trick. That we've reduced the number of county municipalities to 11 is large. But that we're transferring such a large task portfolio to the regions as what we're doing today gives cause for pride. We could not have achieved this without the will of the government parties to seek compromise, but neither without the support of task transfer to the regions that I experience we have received from both the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. In major issues such as regional reform, such multi-party unity is even more important than usual, and I am sure that despite the rhetoric about wanting to reverse regional reform, there is hardly one party represented in the committee that wants to doubt state tasks. Based on the thin list of tasks for which we were given a majority in 2016, the list of tasks for which we have now received a majority of committees is a major step in the right direction to fulfil the intention to move power down and out to the people. It is clear that as one of the initiators of the reform, I would have liked to have transferred even more tasks to the county councils, among others. health establishments. It wasn't the majority for that. But we can't make the mistake of saying that's how it happened, and that's how it will stay. Now we have put in place the most comprehensive county reform in recent times, and then we also have to bear in mind that this is a foundation on which we can build. It's not a completed house. Regional reform, municipal reform and the relocation of state jobs have shown that it is the bourgeois parties that deliver future district policies. Had we been hiding behind old boundaries and division of tasks, the way out would have been too easy. It would be said that this is too important to leave to the county municipalities in the country. Local and county self-government, as I said, demands courage. It requires trust in our communities, in those who are chosen to represent their own communities. We know that the current structures only give good excuses for further centralization. We've seen that all too often. Today we are looking forward to a future in which the county councils flourish, as arenas for political decisions and debates. They will no longer be empty shells without the right and power to make their own decisions. Enough is enough. We're transferring far more tasks than we've ever done in county municipalities. This is district policy a simple verra-building can be proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e376	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e381	There were some explanations as to what had happened. We're happy about that. I understand that in this period, the Left has been concerned that the new regions should be good, functional housing and work regions. I have understood that has been part of the whole of this, and that this, among other things. would develop the labour market. I just want to ask the representative of Skkelstad, because I saw just a little short of the following: the travel time collectively from Halden to Hemsedal in the new Viken region will be one way over six hours. If you choose to take the private car, the travel time is well over five hours. Does the Left believe that this is a functional, acceptable and good commuting distance in a new housing and labour market region?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e388	As the representative Lauvås has also come along, we see something that is also applicable in his region, which was, moreover, the county rapporteur in Eastfold, also Labour Party-man, a strong supporter of early in the process, as one was a little surprised that the county council was not listening to, which was eager in the matter. Obviously, there are long distances. There are long distances several places. There are long distances, and in a digital world this is completely possible to solve. Then we've said that we want to go in order for a sample to look at border adjustments within the new county municipalities. On the other hand, what is a little remarkable – I do not know if it is the representative of Lauvås and his party in Eastfold who have been able to make it happen – is that you do not want to be part of a process for which the Labour Party has been strongly involved in the past, in order to put regions in place. I think that's quite remarkable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e397	On Monday we shall be considering a proposal from the Left. There, the Left Government is calling for a case to be brought before the Stortinget with proposals to limit the State's ability to review municipal decisions. The centre party believes that this is a good proposal, but does little about the issues on which it focuses: greater freedom to determine the donation and selling times of alcohol, the right to allow double registration of residence, greater freedom to regulate local farms – in and on important matters, but, as I find it difficult to see, local politicians are most concerned at this time, when they now despair of state overruns and threats of coercion. Municipal reform is a big deal, and 76 pst. local politicians are dissatisfied with the implementation of the reform. The left has made a coercion into one of the main issues of this downturn and has been the government's guarantor of coercion here on the Stortinget. How does the Left link explain when they overrun local politicians in municipalities and county councils in the reform of the municipality, while promoting proposals to limit the State's ability to review municipal decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e404	I think it's interesting that the representative, Mr. Greni, thinks it's uninteresting what's going on in the farming industry. I've also, like the Northern Tribe I am, come to realize that it's obviously not interesting in parts of my county with the big challenges that, among other things, are. is relative to PD. With regard to municipal freedom, which we are going to deal with on Monday, this is not a violation of it. We also need guidelines from Parliament, which is the Stortinget. It can't be that it should be willless what we actually mean about this. I hear that it is being pointed out that it is an impossibility that we can have control here. We have made governance decisions on about ten municipalities. We also said in 2014, when we decided, that we would make some exceptions, and opened up for it. At that time, the Workers' Party was also involved. It's true enough that the Center Party has never been, because they believe that the way it is today, is also good enough in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e411	I thought the representative called the county councils and county councils in Norway for 'empty shells' in his post. If I've heard wrong, I apologize for that in advance. But is it really such that the representative believes that today's county councils are 'empty shells'? I have seen in particular Nord-Trøndelag County Municipality, which is the representative's home state, to be a very active driver in regional development, and to be a very important co-player for the municipalities in terms of the development of their own county. Does the representative really believe that the county council in Nord-Trøndelag and Nord-Trøndelag has until today been an empty shell?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e416	I don't think the representative Greni has a long seagoing service on anything. The many experiences of the county councils are that there have often been many hearings without necessarily a decision. What we're doing today is we're doing far more problems than it's ever been. Nord-Trøndelag has been in the lucky situation that we have had good opportunities because we have had a whole-time county power plant, which has made us completely different from many other county municipalities, and which has enabled us to be offensive in many ways. But with regard to exactly what we are doing today by adding even more tasks, it might be interesting to hear if the representative Greni, who is also part of the majority behind some of this, is pleased with the new tasks that are now coming to the new county municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e422	Now we heard a post from the Left, which is obviously very proud to have played the Kirsten Gift Knive in a whole series of forced marriages and created a level of region that is completely built on sand ground, as the cooperation parties are not at all interested in this level and will put it down. I hear the representative is proud of it. I assume that the government parties are pleased that the Left has gone on this limb and participated in this which the government parties consider to be a step on the way to bringing down the entire county level. I don't think people are passionate about their county, either, but I know that people are very happy in their counties. In some places there's a common identity across the county boundaries, in other places it's not. The left has now been involved in creating some strange structures that I think people don't know about and don't have any kind of feeling for, and that aren't functional either, for example. what's called the Week. How will the Left explain people these structures almost without content and tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e429	I wonder – in all seriousness – whether the representative Andersen has read the file we are debating today, with what lies ahead of us of tasks. I happen to have that sheet here. It's such a big fill of problems that we've barely seen. I find it a little disrespectful that it is possible to say that it is an empty shell without tasks. There are more tasks than ever in the county. I am absolutely sure Andersen's representative can read, but I must say this really surprises me. So I've been to the past that not all regions are as optimally composed. That's why we've also wanted to set up an expert committee to look at the border adjustments. I also thought that the representative Andersen had come to know that we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e436	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e441	Let me thank the Committee for the good cooperation on Prop. 91 L, which deals with several tasks for municipalities. The municipality is the bearer of the indigenous welfare offer. The municipality is a community developer, authority practitioner and local democracy. The municipality is the arena of the inhabitants to solve important tasks jointly, not under-use by the country. Today, we take – and we have taken – new steps throughout this ageing period that allow municipalities to provide good services and to take more responsibility for their own development. The need for a municipal reform was excessive when the Right-Fremskritsparte government joined. There was no need to assign new tasks to municipalities in order to justify the municipal reform; it could justify itself. But the Right and Government are still proposing more tasks because we think it is right that we decentralize more, that we give Norwegian municipalities, Norwegian people elected, local people elected more influence over what is happening locally. The strategy to strengthen municipalities and local self-government can be summarised in three points: better municipal economy, freer municipalities and more important municipalities. We strengthen the local economy year by year, making it easier to create better well-being locally. Freer municipalities are about giving municipalities greater freedom from state override. The municipal decisions weigh more heavily, the planning and building law simplifies the proceedings, and the local authorities' position vis-à-vis the state is strengthened. More important municipalities are given when we give the municipalities more tasks, so that more decisions can be made locally and offers that are suitable locally. That's how we fill local democracy. There is decentralisation in practice. Others talked about it for years. With the Right in Government, we implement. In addition, of course, the municipal reform, which in itself is an important contribution to creating municipalities that can be more mastery in their own house. That's what we want, isn't it? We want fewer and stronger municipalities. This will make it easier to decentralise more tasks in the future, and it will counteract the zeal to override municipalities through minimum standards from the state, legal requirements and earmarked resources. Community reform is therefore about better services for citizens, but it is also about how we can create more local democracy. But it's not really local democracy if the state overrides the municipalities most of the time they do. Then you're not the master of your own house. Lord of his own house or wife in his own house – you can say that – you will not become if the municipalities ‘outsourcer’ more and more tasks to inter-municipal and over-municipal bodies, so that the local government no longer determines the use of resources locally. It seems that there are these individual parties in this room that seem to have been raised to an ideal, namely that it is better that the municipalities and local authorities allow others to do the job separately, than that we actually build municipalities that can do the job ourselves. It is possible that this type of outsourcing from the local government is ok for the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, but in the Right we want municipalities that can solve their own problems. Today, too many municipalities have to stretch their hands in the weather and say, "No, we can't do our statutory tasks, we have to ask someone else to do it." Can't it be that that's what's ideal for Kommune-Norway? Many municipalities see that their inhabitants will be best served by building a new municipality with their neighbors. Some do so because they say that they need to prepare themselves to build stronger professional environments to provide important welfare services, whether in the area of child protection or social services. Some municipalities get together because they need to improve the business environment. Some go together because out-of-date municipal boundaries create obstacles in everyday life for the most people as well as in the planning of residential and commercial space. Norway is different, and the reasons for municipal reform and aggregation vary from place to place. I am the case rapporteur for a case that has both proposals and a number of reviews showing how the Right Party Government systematically promotes proposals that will make municipalities more important to people most and to local business and society. The government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have agreed on a number of tasks that can be transferred to the municipalities, as well as that we now decide the division and new tasks of the county municipalities. Today we give the rapporteurs and the municipalities the right of marriage. Some people flirt with it and say that this is not an important task, it does not create stronger municipalities. No, that's because you're just busy with structure. We're actually multiplying the possibility for those who want to get married, to actually be able to do it in their own local environment. It's a decentralization of the wedding offer, nothing less, for all those who are married. Those of the largest municipalities that they believe can make a better provision for public transport to the population, and who want to see it offer along with other urban developments, may have the opportunity to do so, provided, of course, that there is cooperation with the surrounding county. Does anyone really think that a municipality would want to take responsibility for public transport if it's not because they think they can create a good deal? Of course not. But the minority in this room is obviously also afraid that larger municipalities will at all show that they can. Today we decide to give the municipalities greater responsibility in the housing social area. The grant for the establishment and adaptation of housing is transferred from the state to the municipalities, while at the same time we regulate the obligation for financial assistance as a task for the municipality. So this is an example of how we both simplify the systems and at the same time strengthen the possibilities of municipalities to see the offer to their inhabitants in context and build good local offers adapted to the inhabitants. It has also been mentioned that the government has promoted – and proposes in a number of other issues and processes – further strengthening the municipalities. Let me just mention: In one matter later today, the government has proposed that dental services should become part of the health service in municipalities for young people and parents to whom the municipalities otherwise have direct responsibility for the provision of health care. Changes to the Child Protection Act give municipalities increased responsibilities. We raise the threshold of state objections in local decisions. We give the municipalities the right to apply to the state. The Planning and Building Act simplifies and lessens the procedure. Volunteering centres have become a municipal responsibility. We are strengthening efforts to digitise municipal services, which also benefits citizens. So the sum of these and many other things, which I haven't mentioned, means a greater decentralization and spread of power than I think someone in this room has been on in modern times. We often owe the red-greens, but in this context it would be totally wrong to say that the red-greens didn't get to this in their eight years, because there's little evidence that they even tried, or had ambitions in the direction that we have. It's a historic day today. In the previous major municipal reform, almost 20 years were used from the start to the decision in Stortinget. In just under three to four years, Norwegian municipalities have now ensured that almost 100 municipalities have taken voluntary merger decisions. After today's decision, it is possible that what was 428 municipalities at the beginning of the period becomes 354 municipalities when we write in 2020. The right is impressed by Norwegian municipalities, rapporteurs and local politicians – across the party borders – who have demonstrated local leadership. The red-green opposition might say that they support most of the contractions, and that's fine. But still, there's a little bit of a hollow statement. Without a reform of instruments and progress, the most reason to believe that very little would happen, and that neither the Stortinget, the municipalities nor the inhabitants had any reason to rejoice over good results today. 1.6 million people live in what is now becoming new municipalities, but there are still challenges with the municipal structure. Some will remain small and vulnerable; others will be congregated and have out-of-date borders in press areas. Therefore, there is still a need for a municipal reform in Norway. The question to be asked in the autumn elections is whether further municipal reform means that more people should be able to join together and build new municipalities, as we have now done, or whether the Workers' Party and the Centre should be given a course in which the number of municipalities and the number of counties should go up again, whether we should go from municipal merger to municipal dissolution. One thing I am sure of: the answer to the challenges of Norway and its inhabitants in the years to come is no more municipalities or municipalities. Let me finally say that in case no. 1 is not proposed. 15, from the Right, to the Wooting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e481	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e486	Can the representative Frank J. Jenssen explain the logic of Rogaland continuing as his own state, while it was strongly required to merge Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud, as an example, into one common region? How has the Right assessed its own criteria for regional reform in this context? Is the explanation quite simply as we heard the representative of Skkelstad say directly, that right here in the regional reform was forced into the knee of the left?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e491	I think it's hard to say when there are four parties that work together and come up with a common, agreed solution to create a new County Map, which provides the basis for many more strong county municipalities, which can solve the problems better for residents and businesses, that some people are forced to kneel. We've negotiated, that's right, and it has multiple expressions. We've had a desire to reduce the number of county municipalities. That's what we get, and we think that makes sense. It may be that other county municipalities should have been included in other constellations. If the representative Lauvås and the Workers' Party had been interested in contributing to this, one could actually have contributed to it. The Labour Party has shown no particular interest in achieving anything on the regional reform side. I just remember that the last time there was an attempt at regional reform in Norway, the Workers' Party was at the head of it. Then you had a real belly pad, even when it was about the number of regions, and it was more like the mountain that gave birth to a mouse. This time we actually get into a county and regional reform that reduces the number of county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e498	A little back to the introduction: the representative Jensen was concerned that the municipalities have now been granted the right to marry, and I understood him so that it was part of an important strengthening of democracy in the municipalities. The municipalities have also been given notarial business proposals. So I wondered if the representative Jensen could elaborate – towards the local government in e.g. Marker, Aurskog-Høland or Rindal – how this strengthens and gives more power to the local government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e503	Of course, I'm careful to give advice, but I almost wanted to say it as a advice to the Workers' Party. I can at least say how we in the Right think. We in the Right don't just think about local government when we think about local government reform; we actually think about the inhabitants too. Both of the issues raised by the representative Lauvås are today an offer that one would like to go to the state and government offices to get executed, perhaps at the courts, at the department store or similar. Confirming papers and a ‘right copy’ may seem insignificant, but for most people it is quite important to get into everyday life. Similarly, getting married is also important in everyday life, at least it's very important the day you do it. We've said that we think it's a huge advantage that we can decentralize the offer and multiply the number of places where the inhabitants can do these problems. I hope that the Norwegian local government will be pleased that the inhabitants of their municipality can get, in fact, used the town hall as well, if it were, for things they do not use the town hall for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e510	Local politicians around the country have now driven and made extensive efforts to follow up the demands of the majority in the United Kingdom on the reform of the municipality. There's been a lot of administrative resources going on, and there's been a lot of political resources going on. Now, all rapporteurs and local politicians around, regardless of their colour, hope that they will have work to do with what they are really going to do – further development of services, business development in their own municipality, etc. And they hope that there is now a point for this reform, and that there will be peace, especially in the non-compulsory municipalities. Then I understand from the representative Jensen's posts that this reform continues. This is just a ‘leap message’, it was said at the press conference. Is it really the case that the representative believes that this coercive reform should continue, that municipalities should not be allowed to work in the future, but that municipal reform should be the main task of the municipalities in the future as well? Or can the representative confirm that there is now a point for this reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e517	At least there is no coercive reform to be continued, because no coercive reform has ever been adopted anywhere. But what I think Norwegian municipalities know, and a lot of people know, is that you need to plan for the future. The center party can say that you're satisfied with what it was yesterday, or last year, or 50 years ago. Norwegian municipalities are concerned about looking ahead to their inhabitants and thinking: Are we well enough equipped – for ourselves – to take the welfare challenges that meet us in ten years, in fifteen years, or can we need to join forces in stronger units to form a better offer? I think you underestimate when you say that it should be the most important job. I think the most important task for Norwegian local government is to find out how to equip yourself to create a good welfare offer for their citizens, and then it would be wrong to exclude the possibility of discussing aggregation. So yes, we believe that there may be a need to continue some form of municipal reform, but we have not decided the content of it. I agree that there is a need for rest, but then I will warn against the Central Party's notice of rematching all things. At least it will not give jobs either for local politicians or for the employees of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e525	SV is concerned with the quality of services to be provided by citizens, and we are opposed to breaking up good professional environments, as the government suggests, for example. on dental health, where all professional environments are opposed, and where people want a good dental health, which can be located locally, of course, but which is currently operated by county municipalities. They believe that the right large municipalities can take, and then they split it up, and the trade unions crumble. The second is public transport. It is also a strange suggestion that large municipalities should be able to take over it. So, when Oslo is not big enough and has to cooperate with Akershus, people are relatively little concerned that they are crossing a county or municipality border when they are going to take the bus or drive collectively. There could have been a reason to merge states to get even larger units, but here goes the right opposite way; they split up and end up suggesting that you have to have some inter-communal enterprises to deal with this across. How can the representative Jensen explain that this is better for people?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e532	I can agree that it is important not to have too fragmented welfare services for the inhabitants, for example. on dental health. This is a bit of the whole reason why the government has promoted a case, which is being dealt with later today, that there is a need to see more in the context of the provision of health care to children and the provision of health care to older people in the municipality. Today it is fragmented, so that you do not get an overall health offer from the municipality. We have proposed that the municipality should be given greater responsibility for the provision of health care in order to be able to make better offers to its citizens. Similarly, it will be for public transport. I myself have been a municipal politician in Trondheim, who for several years – in an effort – was responsible for public transport in Trondheim. It went perfectly well. But if the municipality of Trondheim wants to apply for it one more time, it is up to the municipality of Trondheim. We don't intend to force Trondheim Municipality to take over it, but we assume that if Trondheim, or other cities or municipalities, applies to take over the collective offer, they do so because they can prove that they make a very good and perhaps better offer than today and can also see it in the context of e.g. urban development. That's why we want to give the opportunity. But of course, we don't force anyone to do that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e539	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e544	The Labour Party is for changes in the municipal structure, but against the use of coercion. We support the fact that the municipalities merge where it provides better services to the inhabitants, and we have supported from the very beginning that the municipalities talk together to see if the municipal borders prevent a better offer for local residents and businesses. The Workers' Party has also supported the financial instruments of the reform, such as one-off aid, reform aid and breakdown grants. That is why the Workers' Party supports and will vote in favour of the groupings that are connected locally, when we are going to vote later today. So there's a lot of things that parties disagree about in this case, but I want to share the committee leader's recognition of the job that the elected people locally have done in their communities through this process. We know that there have been many and often very demanding processes, and local politicians therefore deserve praise and recognition. We also see that many good local processes lead to voluntary mergers, where different parties have gone ahead and cooperated where there is now an agreement to join together. A few weeks ago, I was in Molde and met local politicians from various parties from the municipalities that are now part of the new municipality of Molde – a brilliant example of how you have worked targeted and concretely, and where you also had a very conscious view of the need to use the people you have in the affected municipalities to create the new municipalities of the future. Many other good examples could have been drawn here, from Kvalsund/Hammerfest in the north and south of the country. I notice that the government parties have once again attacked the Workers' Party's contribution through their posts. Then I would like to remind them that I think it would have been a rather monstrous day for them in Stortinget today without the work that the workers' party's local politicians have done. We have spread more than 200 rapporteurs across the country, both in small and large municipalities, in cities and districts, and there are very many Labour Party rapporteurs who have been at the forefront of local work on the community reform. The feedback from them to us has been that local politicians and national politicians must play their part here. They have been very clear that good local processes and volunteering are clearly the best starting point for building a new municipality. The use of coercion provides an equivalent poor starting point and result. Therefore, the Workers' Party does not support the coercion of municipalities or counties. It is breaking with the full starting point of the reform, that it should be based on volunteering. We believe that the wit is fairly equally distributed in this long-range and diverse country. We have to listen to people and those who live in the municipalities. We're going to be careful to sit on a back room in Oslo and draw maps and believe that we know best. We also know that being coerced against their will is a poor starting point for the cooperation that must be there around the next turn, and the offers and services that the inhabitants will have. Therefore, the Workers' Party will vote against all the coercive mergers to which the government parties and the Left are adding up. As I said, the Labour Party has supported parts of the content and instruments of the reform. But at the same time, through this process, we have pointed to what we would do differently. It would have been right and necessary to have more liberal deadlines and economic carrots without a shelf life date. We have strongly warned against changing the rules of the game along the way with changes in the income system. We would have provided a more liberal local economy and showed the municipalities more trust. Is the Workers' Party and the Opposition on the Storting alone to believe that the government could have carried out the process in a better way? We obviously don't. In a study conducted by Municipal Report, 76 pst respond. by local politicians that they are dissatisfied with the government's implementation of the reform. It's alarming, but it's not surprising, because, as I mentioned, there has been no lack of warnings and alternative road choices from the opposition here on the Stortinget. Among the things that have been discussed are the role of the statesmen. From the point of view that the statesmen should be abolished, the Government Party has used the county officials diligently in its work on the municipal reform. We in the Workers' Party have always supported the fact that the county officials would assist the municipalities in the process and sum up the decisions in the individual counties. However, we have also thought – and still believe – that the statesmen should place the decisive emphasis on the local authorities’ own recommendations and conclusions. Here the statesmen have interpreted the mission from the government very differently from state to state, and the government has done nothing to clarify what the mission was. Then you can ask yourself why the government has not listened to the objections that have come along in the process. I'm not right to answer that, I just notice that you're very busy with everything that can be counted. In any case, the result is that there is some tension associated with the vote later today and whether the government and the Left have a majority in the Chamber for their coercive mergers. When it can at all be speculated that two outbursts from the government parties can stop several of the government parties' own proposals, it says something about how sylt thinly anchors the government and the left to overrun local democracy and regional democracy. The government has at no time been able to explain the criteria on which they have established that some municipalities are being coerced, while others continue as their own municipalities. In some places the government supports the recommendations of the statesmen, in others they ignore it altogether. The only thing you can find again is that the government parties keep their own municipalities away from coercion, as the Evening Post showed in its review in February. Then, on different occasions, the Workers' Party has been accused of wanting to reverse the municipal reform. That's not right. Of course, we will carry out voluntary community mergers adopted here today. But today's government can't expect that when they've spent the last night before the landfill on whipping their own in place, the Workers' Party will execute the coercion if we get into government. Therefore, coercive municipalities and counties should be able to ask for the decisions to be reversed following a government change. Whether they take advantage of that opportunity is up to themselves. At the same time, I would like to stress that the process of merging municipalities does not stop today. The municipal structure must be dynamic. The working party will also facilitate voluntary community mergers during the next major period. June 2017 shall not, as the Right Party and the Advance Party have agreed, be a now or never for municipalities that consider changes in the structure to mean a strengthening of the service provision to the inhabitants. We will continue and, if necessary, strengthen economic incentives to stimulate more voluntary community mergers. However, the greatest attention must now be paid to the development of municipalities in key areas such as kindergarten, school, care and health care. The working party shall provide the municipalities with financial arrangements to enable them to do so. So some clarifications from the setting. First, I made a mistake. The working party is not behind A. XX, which is a proposal to join Åfjord and Roan. Our reason for that is that it's now very unclear who wants to join with who, in the area in question. The Workers' Party supports a merger of Vågsøy and Flora, based on the local connection to the merger. But it is as a clear premise on our part that the Stortinget must respect the municipality of Bremander, who does not want to join the neighbouring municipalities. That is why – we are in a slightly unusual company here – together with the Progress Party and the Left, we are promoting a proposal to clarify this and to replace A. XXIV in the vote. In this context, there is reason to note that the Right does not support this consolidation, even if it has local connection. At the same time, the Right has promoted a proposal to merge Bodø and Steigen, which does not have local support. Now I understand from the post of the representative Jensen that the Right has changed during the last week and still does not stand by that proposal. Another curiosity: the municipality of Rindal wants to switch counties from More and Romsdal to Trøndelag. We listen to it and expect the government to take care of it. Bindal Municipality, on the other hand, does not want to change the county from Nordland to Trøndelag. The Labour Party believes that this must be respected. We want the inhabitants of Bindal to continue as their own municipality and as northern residents. So if only this B can be replaced with an R, the case is solved. In any case, the trøndelag gets extra. Today, the big business is also dealing with the so-called regional reform. It is not right, as the representative Jensen claimed, that the Workers' Party has sat on the sideline. On the contrary, this is a matter dealt with each year by the Stortinget during the four years of this process, and the Workers' Party, two years ago, tried to unite the parties into a consensus and a compromise on what the regional level would look like. It blocked the Right and Advance Party because it did not want to strengthen the regionally elected level with more tasks. Today’s treatment confirms this: the majority are only concerned with structure and to a very small extent with the content of the reform. The Labour Party is behind several proposals that are about transferring tasks to the regionally elected level. Some of the proposals get a majority, but others don't. The majority of the population now merges several counties where there is no connection to it. This has been confirmed by several decisions in the counties, but a study that was produced in several media yesterday shows, for example, that. that there is a clear majority against aggregation in both Troms and Finnmark and towards the new Viking. Only every fourth pick in these areas supports aggregation. The majority of the population, if it still is, is in other words indifferent to the population. The proposal for a regional map is marked by arbitraryness, irresponsibility and immaturity. It is not easy to understand how this should strengthen democracy or provide better services to its citizens. It is also very difficult to understand the logic behind some states being selected and coerced together against their will, while others continue as today. The proposal at all bears the mark of being promoted by two parties, the Right and the Advance Party, which, of course, have as an explicit objective the reduction of the regionally elected level. It is nice that the Christian People's Party and the Left agree. It is very worrying that the majority of the population push through this against the will of the states – a scarcely majority in the Stortinget – when the parties say individually that this is not really what they mean. Here both the Right Party and the Advance Party have made it clear that they really don't want the changes that we're talking about. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly stated that they do not think this is a good map. And the left has said that you've agreed to create a new structure. Then it's very special that you still go to the step of doing this. It's not the Workers' Party. With regard to the Western process, Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane have wanted to merge if there were tasks that gave rise to it. We have received clear signals that it does not, and that is why the Workers' Party is going to vote against the merger. We support the merger of the Agder states. In the next period, the Labour Party wants to strengthen the regionally elected level with a sober task transfer that is realistic to be carried out, in line with the proposals we are promoting in the Stortinget today. We're positive to make structural changes, but it has to happen in understanding with the affected states and not across their wishes or by thinking about the number 10 or another magic number. We don't need a government that refurbishes the country, we need a government that builds the country, and that plays with people. The government has justified the goal of fewer, larger and more robust municipalities that municipalities should be responsible for more tasks and more power and responsibility. I don't quite know whether civil marriage, stamping passports and proper copies contribute completely to meeting that objective. The most eye-catching is the proposal to municipalise dental services, which were transferred to county municipalities in 1984, and which have proved to be a success. Our starting point is that the tasks need to be distributed in a way that ensures the best possible services for the population. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Labour Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e588	The representative Helga Pedersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e595	I will refer from Labour Party rapporteur Vinje Aurdal of Ålesund, who says: «For me, this is about building the country, which the Workers' Party has always been concerned about. The play on the reversal of coercive measures does not bear witness to the fact that Ap is on this proud tradition.’ In the Workers' Party's party programme from 2005, 2009 onwards and in the contract with the voters still in force, from 2013, the Workers' Party is committed to the fact that structural changes in the municipalities must be ‘voluntary for the municipalities, but not in such a way that individual municipalities can stop any change desired by neighbouring municipalities and be appropriate for national purposes’. 2005, 2009 and 2013 – and 2013 continue to be the contract with the voters, even though the Workers' Party would come up with something else. The contract is valid. Then it's close to asking the Workers' Party, which says they're going to make their own municipal reform: can the Workers' Party tell us exactly what kind of municipal reform they see in cooperation with the Centre Party, other than a running seminar on different instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e607	Thank you for the question. There is no secret that there are also different views in the Labour Party on how to change the municipal structure. But our party program that applies to this period says very clearly that municipal mergers are to be based on volunteering. After that time, we had two national meetings that have made that view very clear. What the government parties and the Left add up to today is not coercion of municipalities, and not least states, as an exception rule. The criteria are highly unclear. But we see that where central representatives from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left themselves are concerned – in 20 of 21 cases – there is no coercion. It's obviously more painful to do it in their own backyard. We also see that there is still uncertainty about the Right, the Progress Party and the Left have managed to obtain a majority in this Chamber. We will continue to support voluntary mergers and continue the economic instruments. This isn't a now or never.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e616	I would first like to remind the representative Pedersen that Sogn and Fjordane county councils are run by the county council and not by the representation of the Labour Party, so it would be wise to base county council decisions. I also notice in the post that the Labour Party says they are in favour of changes in the municipal structure. Once you've read history, you'll see that the Workers' Party has been at the head of a number of municipal councils. I read in advance about what happened in the 1990s, when the Workers' Party with Gunnar Berge in the head carried out a number of municipal mergers. At that time, the general rule was forced and the exemption optional, as opposed to now, where we have a general rule of volunteering and by way of exception that the Stortinge is going through. I notice that Gunnar Berge says as a advice to the Workers' Party that a municipal merger is «a very comprehensive process initiated when municipalities are to be merged. A lot of resources, a planning process and employment. A reversal will be a significant resource dissipation’. That's what he says to the Evening Post. What is Pedersen's comment on Gunnar Berge's advice on reversal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e632	Very familiar, Sogn and Fjordane do not have a decision to join Hordaland. They've said they'll do it if they get relevant tasks. The government hasn't delivered on that. Thus, there is no political agreement to implement that consolidation. That is why we are voting against it. We're going to have a dialogue with Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland if we get into government, to see if they're going to go together or continue separately, and if new tasks make them want to review the issue again. Then in the Workers' Party we relate to us now living in 2017, and that the 1990s is something that has been. We are absolutely convinced that the result will be best if the peoples who are going to carry out these mergers have a ownership of the solution that has been chosen. That's why we're leaning on volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e641	It has been interesting to follow the practice and rhetoric of the Workers' Party in opposition these four years. What's in the program has changed a little, and what's changing at national meetings, depending on who's speaking out. From time to time, there has been a little fog where the Workers' Party is in these cases. But one thing was clear: you went out for a while and told the rapporteurs and municipalities that they didn't have to care about this reform, that's what we're going to do, etc. At least that's what we met up with. So today I hear the representative boasting that more than 200 of his own rapporteurs have been actively involved, so there must have been a big gap between the Labour Party locally and centrally. But then she said two things: she would have resources without a shelf-life date, and she would strengthen the rewards. Can she promise that this is the Labour Party's position after the election?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e648	First, I am pleased that the Christian People’s Party supports the Workers’ Party in not coercing municipalities. It wasn't very obvious from the start. I am glad that the Christian People's Party has landed on that point of view. Our message to our rapporteurs and local politicians has been that all our people, all our municipalities, have to take the round and look into the glass ball and assess whether you are meeting the future best with the structure you have today, or by joining one or more neighbours. But we've also been very clear that we want to respect the answers you get locally. The government's attitude has been now or never. We don't mean that. We believe that the municipal structure is dynamic, so we will stimulate voluntary mergers in the next period. And it is absolutely right that we should continue the economic instruments in the reform and, if necessary, strengthen them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e658	The representative Pedersen says that it was unclear on the part of the Christian People's Party whether or not they would use the right to rule. It was no less unclear from the Workers' Party as such. I notice that the representative Pedersen is talking about that she would like to furniture the house before we have built it. We want to build the house before we furniture it. Then I look at the lists, and she also claims that there are too few problems. The majority, part of which is also part of a part of the regional reform, are far more tasks than the Workers' Party has listed in its proposals. Then it's a big surprise that the Workers' Party can't now say it about at least Sogn and Fjordane, who claim they've had too little, because now even dental care is here. I could imagine an answer and a reasoning: why is there still too little task when the Workers' Party is actually proposing less tasks than the majority in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e665	What the representative of Skelstad says is wrong. If the Christian People's Party and the Left were really serious about transferring several real tasks to the regional elected level, they have had the chance to create a majority for it every year, but they haven't used it. Instead, with all due respect, there has been a complete proposal to transfer a well-functioning dental service from 19 robust professional environments to over 350 municipalities. Now, what's really going to be the outcome is a little bit unclear. You're going to experiment, and you're going to see it by 2023, but you can't start a regional reform by taking from the county council tasks it has today, and it solves in a very good way. It's a little bit special that you start by creating a structure that none of the parties involved really want, and then you have to set up an expert selection in retrospect to see what kind of problems this level is going to have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e672	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e677	This reform work has been a real job growth, for government and big business, but mostly for our capable local politicians out there, as many places have done an exemplary job of creating meaningful new municipalities. The purpose of the reform was to create more robust municipalities with good welfare services, which could be able to take on more tasks and thus strengthen local democracy. Let me start with the regional reform. There, I would like to say the following: stronger and more powerful regions than today's county councils are incredibly important for district policy, a district policy based on the advantages of our different regions. This was a main recommendation from the District Commission in its time. Then we got the red-green government's regional reform, and it became a self-contained round that fell apart – I remember. It ended with the mountain that gave birth to a mouse, as one of the papers wrote in the commentary at the time, and with that merit list I had hoped that the Center Party and the Workers' Party had subdued their voice when they saw how this reform has worked. Instead, they could be more constructive and with a little bit less sutring. Today's government was not really going to present any regional reform. A little free and simple, it was the first thing known that we were now going to carry out a municipal reform, and then we got to see. It couldn't sit and watch the Christian People's Party; it had quickly led to the whole of the elected regional level being aged away in the government's image. We are therefore pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left have put in place a regional reform process, and we are pleased that the government, and in particular the Sanner Council and his people, have done an honest piece of work on a reform they were really against, but as I sometimes suspect several of them may have become for during the March. What we've known all along is that if there wasn't a regional reform now, it might never have been, because there are limits to how many stomach patches such a reform can have, and that red-green experiment was a scary backstop. Ideally, we should have had a much better process, clarifying tasks first and then have found an appropriate regional breakdown, because in this case structure is as important as the tasks. It's about avoiding the best becoming the worst enemy of good, to freely quote Voltaire. Today, we are adopting a regional structure that is not my party's primary choice. Many perfectly correct grips are made, and a few grips could be more optimal. I point to Buskerud/Westfold/Telemark and the East. I also think it is unfortunate that Rogaland is standing alone, not to mention More and Romesdal, but this is what we got into that is practical and politically possible in this round. As far as our party is concerned, it is important that the Committee on the Borders, which is now going to be working, is given a large enough mandate to find further structural improvements. I also understand the reactions in Finnmark, but the Christian People's Party believes that it is better for North to have two regions than for everything to be combined into one big one. I am pleased that we now have more powerful regions and county municipalities, for which my party has fought for a number of years. The task portfolio is now working on – much is clear, much remains, but we are in the process. Although the critics of the Workers' Party and the Center Party sound bad, they were actually invited to participate in a part of the process, which I was disappointed that they did not participate more constructively in. History is an interesting exercise, and it'll be interesting to see how the story of this reform is told in a few years' time. Even before today's debate, there are obviously different realities. For the Christian People's Party, the basis was that we had a clear programme formulation that we wanted to facilitate a community reform – not a merger to merge, but to ensure good welfare services for residents in an appropriate housing and work region. The Christian People's Party wants a pragmatic approach, often for demographic reasons. It hasn't been an exercise for boys. I have noted great political courage and many good processes when, over the last few years, I have traveled across Norway and talked about the reform. The biggest job is not done here in the house, but by capable municipal politicians who want the best for their inhabitants, in all parties. Many good processes have resulted in a large number of voluntary mergers, in which municipalities have made mutually positive decisions, in line with what was the whole precondition for the reform. The Christian People's Party chose to lay on that line. Although we had an opening in the program to begin with for a governing right from Stortinget, we have chosen to follow the principle of volunteering in full. We see there are good reasons today for continuing the reform. It is still a prerequisite that there should be, not a centralisation reform, but a reform to strengthen the provision of welfare. We believe that we need to extend the economic incentives in the next growing period. It is a signal of what we think about this matter, so that the municipalities that did not get completely into port this time are given a new chance. For some municipalities with large geographical extent and scattered settlements, it may not be possible to obtain a merger, and therefore the Stortinget must also take into account that these municipalities receive an equivalent service offer with the rest of the country. When I sign out the decisions today, the Christian People's Party will vote for the voluntary mergers and against those that are not based on mutual yes. An exception is under A. VIII, which concerns Shipping and Sandnes. We believe that this is an rational merger, and the Christian People's Party made it clear already this winter that we are not going to support this. We're going to support the Central Party's postponement proposal. In Eastfold, we also make a twist and support the Workers' Party's proposal No 14, which is based on a principle of volunteering under the given conditions. Municipality-Norway has changed since the last reform period of the 1960s. There has also grown an understanding out there among people that it was necessary and right to do something. Reform work must be said to have been successful – much more than the Centre Party and others had hoped, who did not have the necessary attitude to this spirit of virtue. We want to congratulate the citizens of the new municipalities and wish them luck in building something new. Now it's up to the local politicians to take care of it, respectfully and generously with each other, so that no big brother takes command of the smaller sibling. Border adjustments will be a necessary post-work of several places, and in the light of the treatment of the zoning law in the Stortingen last year, the government is likely to be able to determine the vast majority of these cases, if not all. It's important that we focus on the whole in each case. Local needs of the population are one thing, but they need to be balanced towards a comprehensive, good solution for the municipalities concerned. It is necessary to carry out impact assessments which clarify the benefits and disadvantages and take into account what emerges. Then to Prop. 91 L, on task transfer: a very large number of task transfer cases are in their own processes, and this work is not completed today. But we have a little bit of a trick we want to mention. It makes sense for municipalities to carry out several relevant tasks, and in my party it is a guiding principle that decisions should be taken at the lowest appropriate level, and that in principle power should be given up, not down. Therefore, task transfer is a logical part of this reform. The fact that the municipalities are given increased responsibility in this case is good, but it is not yet complete. Let me briefly confirm: marriages are hardly what are perceived as the greatest transfer of power, but it is symbolically important, and many will appreciate that the rapporteur can do such tasks. We also see the objections raised in the housing social area, but we still support the changes. The local authorities will then have an appropriate overall picture of the measures taken in this area. The fact that some responsibility for public transport is transferred to larger municipalities is further within us, but with the clear premise that this should be done in close cooperation with the county councils, and that it is only relevant in special cases in large municipalities, we agreed in the negotiations. In the case of high school, we expect the regulations that have worked for many years to continue. The other task transfers that are allowed here, we have no comments on, but overall I would say on the long range of tasks that if we mean anything with constitutional local democracy, we also need to have confidence in it, and then it's essential that there are funds with, so that there are no major differences in quality and exercise. It's not like all municipalities need to be the same. A broader range of tasks allows municipalities to give priority to making offers tailored to their needs. The day and decision are historic. I want to thank the government and the Left for an intense, useful and, in addition, instructive and good cooperation for the best for the country. I recommend with this the proposals of the Christian People's Party is part of, except, as I mentioned, A. VIII, about the Consignment and the Sandnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e715	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e720	This regional reform has succeeded, I realized that the representative Tuskedal said. In view of the decisions actually taken in the counties, and where, with the exception of the Agder counties, have said no, the question is, Who is this reform for? Why is this regional reform a success for Finnmark, for Akershus, for Eastfold, when the Christian People's Party must have realized that these states themselves have said no to coercion?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e725	I note an important question, but it has the wrong entry point, because one skips that the county municipality could be closed down. That's what was the political starting point for the government, to lower the county level. That level has now been saved by the Christian People's Party and the Left. Then we realize that it's a pain point. We are aware that this needs to be developed further. We are aware that the structure and tasks need to be looked at. But we've made it clear that the red-greens are not right, we've reduced the number of regions. We've got a new breakdown in place. And the Christian People's Party, as I said from the pulpit, is also not satisfied with everything that has happened. But it was the art of the possible – that’s what we achieved. We have saved three elected levels, which the Labour Party supports, so I believe that the question from the representative Lauvås came in at a slightly too low level, because we have saved the regional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e732	The Christian People's Party is united with the government and the Left in setting up the municipal reform. But at last they have, at a price, turned to holding on to the principle that the reform should be based on volunteering and local processes. In the case of community reunification, the Christian People's Party, together with the Center Party, is going against all coercion, and we are pleased about that. Surprisingly, it is quite different in the counties. There, the Christian People's Party supports the coercion of states after the neighboring talk has been taken, after the states have decided that they are best served to be maintained as their own county municipalities. There, the Christian People's Party sets aside the local processes and adopts groupings that arouse strong reactions from those involved. I have to say I was extra surprised by the representative Tuskedal's posts, where he actually told me how broken many of these structures are. I absolutely share the representative's description of how unfavourable the Viken region, for example, is. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e743	It's time!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e748	Then my question becomes: why does a local politician respect the municipalities, but not the county councils? [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e754	I have to ask for the speaking time to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e759	First of all, the Christian People's Party has not winged at all. But we're able to change according to reality, which the Center Party seems to have problems with, because they've been stuck in their position all the way. We have said that the use of coercion was unnecessary when nearly 100 municipalities came on a voluntary basis. It was absolutely unique, what happened. We've appreciated that, and then we changed that position. It is clear that in the municipalities, where the inhabitants live, where they live, where they are going to do their services, it is very important to participate, precisely because the power is going to come from below and go up. For the Christian People's Party, it was absolutely essential that this be anchored locally. With regard to the regional level, it was probably a broad understanding that it has a different perspective, a different level of service — and concerns completely different issues than those that might concern people daily. We thought that there Stortinget would use its steering power. We thought that there was a big difference, and we chose to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e770	It's fun to hear a representative from the Christian People's Party presenting it as one says that there will now be more civil marriages! That it should be done locally, is pleasant, and it has no objection, but it is a little special that this is a matter for the Christian People's Party. The representative, Mr Tuskedal, said that you should not go in for a merger for the sake of the merger, and that you should have tasks first and structure afterwards, the Swedish authorities fully agree. Then it's very strange to hear the representative's reasons for a regional reform. It became very early that the tasks should be reduced, and you have clear decisions against it locally. One of the worst things that the Christian People's Party today says they're going to vote for is the merger of Troms and Finnmark, where there's very clear local resistance, and where it's not possible to see any new tasks to serve this great region.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e777	Now it is so that the Christian People's Party is happy that people get married, and then they get to choose where they want to go. For us, it's not a big theological matter, it's a social matter, where people get married. We have no problem with that. When it comes to merging, it is clear that – I repeat – the Left and Christian People's Party participated in maintaining the third elected level. I also believe that SV, as a small party, knows that negotiations do not provide optimal solutions. We've saved the third elected level. We're going to be in the first place when it comes to developing it in terms of both structure and problems. In this case, I think, or I'm convinced, the structure is as important as the tasks of keeping this level, which would otherwise have been abandoned. Then I hope that there will be good constructive proposals for tasks further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e786	We have heard during the day that the government parties do not support the new regional breakdown. The left hopes that they've put in place the new regional breakdown. Then it appeared in the contributions of the Christian People's Party that neither Christian People's Party supports the new regional division. It's really just the Left that supports it. Norway is to be divided in a completely new way to allow seven-eight representatives to get through their will through a political deal. After this process we get a new division of the statesmen, we get a different division of the structure of the police districts, we get a third division of the so-called regions, and we get a fourth division of the superpowers. It's going to be a bigger chaos than it's ever been. Then my question is, Why does the Christian People's Party think it's wise? Not as part of a tactical debate, but why do they think it is wise that Troms and Finnmark become one region? Why do they think it is wise that Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud become one region – from Hardangervidda to the Whaler Islands? What's the progress in that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e795	I repeat: the Left and Christian People's Party has saved, so far, the third elected level. It's very strange to hear the Central Party, which has a takas with complaints about what they call centralization, pointing out and criticising just that. It's the people's government we're fighting for. I thought the Center Party was in the forefront and fought for the People's Government. When you now criticize the Christian People's Party for this, it seems as if you support the government that it should have removed that level. Here, there's a circular argument from the Center Party that appears to be most populistic. That we've managed to get a solution that no parties agree on, must be proof that we can work together, because we have a common result where no one is completely satisfied, but we've done what the red-greens haven't done in eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e804	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e809	Local government reform has become a very unpopular reform, both among citizens and among local politicians. There have been referendums in 210 municipalities. In 145 of them, there were no-multiple numbers. A study conducted by the Municipal Report showed that 76 pst. local politicians are dissatisfied with the government's implementation of the reform. At the latest in the class struggle this week, a measurement was presented showing that only 29 pst. by the inhabitants of Norway, support the use of coercion by the government. I believe that the Central Party's fight against the government's great centralisation reform and the strong resistance locally will contribute to the government's shift to the autumn. Then it will not be added to the continuation of the coercive reform, as Mr Sanner promises – I can promise! When the municipal reform was launched, it was: ‘The government will spread power, limit state detail management and build society from below by giving more space for action to individuals, families, communities and businesses. The government wants to give more power and authority to more robust municipalities.» That's not what people and local politicians think about when they talk about local reform. At least I never heard anyone say that. Today, we are dealing with the results of three years of intensive work in municipalities, county councils and at Stortinget. It started with the presentation of the reform in the municipalproposition for 2014 and ends with Storting’s treatment today. Three times three hurrahs for the municipal reform from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left have no particular reverberation in the municipalities. I think there are few other than the figures of these parties here today who can celebrate the reform and say that this ensures the spread of power and the increased space for action of individuals and communities. We've got 74 fewer municipalities, but the inequalities in size, in dispersal and in internal challenges are just as big as before the reform. The challenges in Norwegian municipalities are exactly the same as before the reform. The Central Party believes that there is a need for reforms that strengthen the conditions of the municipalities to provide good services to the inhabitants and for municipalities to be forward-looking developers of their communities. I am unable with my best will to see that this need for reform is emphasised in the government's approach. On the contrary, the differences between municipalities are a natural and necessary part of living in a long-distance country with rural and urban areas, densely populated and scattered areas. This is poorly addressed in the reform. The municipalities of both towns and cities are the framework of community communities in which businesses, organisations, culture and the public sector work together. This is also not emphasised in the reform. The importance of municipalities for district policy has not been taken into account at all. The central party believes that there is a need for reforms to reduce the extent of government governance of municipalities. Such strengthening of the role of municipalities in general government is not a matter of structural change but of system change. There is a need for will to decentralize power and authority from state to local level. In this perspective, it's going to be Prop. 91 L about task transfer to the municipalities quite funny. The name is not shy, it's called, but the name of the proposition says most of the time about a lack of ambition. ‘Changes in the marriage law and housing law, etc.’ are not great for a government that launched the municipal reform as a task reform. Changes in responsibility for public transport are now also proposed, but it is from one part of the municipal sector to another. The state shields its own, it turns out. For most other tasks under assessment, investigations shall be carried out in the sectoral ministries prior to any transfers to the municipalities. The number of municipalities will be reduced from 428 to 354 if Stortinget follows the position of the municipal committee. 94 municipalities are included in aggregations. It is worth noting that one third of the merged municipalities are part of the ten coercive municipalities. The municipal reform was to be based on volunteering and local processes, called it in 2014. It wasn't like that. The centre party will vote against all coercion. It's also signaled other parties. Many follow us in Stortinget's treatment of the municipal reform today. Many people are excited about what happens to proposals relating to their own municipality, especially minority proposals relating to coercive mergers. For the sake of those who follow us in the municipalities, and for the sake of making their position visible to the representatives, I ask that these votes, as well as the votes on the coercion of county municipalities, be taken individually. From the centre party we promise that with us in the government position until the fall, we will help to cancel mergers that are now being adopted if the municipalities themselves ask for it. It is three months from now to the big shot, and then I hope a new government is in place. Some say they're shocked that we're going to overdo the Storting's will. The thing is that a new greatness should and will have its own will, and in this case the people are willing on our side. That's what we have to manage. I would like to comment on some suggestions for aggregation which give particular cause for concern. In the new municipality consisting of Sogndal, Balestrand and Leikanger, two out of three municipalities were against aggregation. It is difficult to argue for this proposal on the basis of the derogation to use coercion when a municipality locked up for a regional solution. So for another example: Odda, Ullensvang and Jondal. It is a so-called voluntary merger, and the Central Party is also voting for it, because there is a positive municipal government decision on the basis of which that solution is based. But it's with a bismach, because the solution is created through the scarcest possible majority, a referendum that said no, and municipalities that felt pressured because they ended up as losers in the change in the income system and were heavily pressured by the County. The most incomprehensible proposal for coercion concerns Leka, Vikna, Nærøy and Bindal. Three municipalities have said no, and one has said yes, but does not want to coerce. This is as far away from the government's definition of exceptional coercion as possible. I would also like to mention Bodø and Steigen, the Fosen municipalities and the attempt to push Bremander into collaboration with Flora and Vågsøj. For the time being, these mergers have been prevented, but I note that the Council of State refers to further processes and requests for mergers later. It doesn't go far, says State Councillor Sanner. This has to end once, so that we can focus on service production and societal development, say stated local politicians. The centre party will vote against proposals Nos. 11, 12, 13 and 14 because these are alternatives that the citizens and local politicians have not assessed, as they were part of major mergers where some have said no. If the municipalities themselves so wish, they can take initiatives for new processes after today’s treatment. So over to the regrouping of the county municipalities. It was in the autumn of 2015 that the counties were connected to the municipal reform. Regional reform is not primarily a result of the government's will. It wants to put down the county councils. This is one of the few things where the Christian People's Party and the Left can point to permeability. They have chosen a bad case, you ask me. The majority of the population, all parties except the Right and the Advance Party, said during the 2015 reading that they would maintain a regionally elected level. The same majority also said that changes in the zoning should be based on local wishes. It wasn't like that. The approach we are dealing with today is not based on local wishes, but largely on the coercion of states. Of course, a debate on elected regions should be primarily about tasks in the counties, not the structure. It is claimed that larger and fewer county municipalities can strengthen the role of county councils in the dialogue with the state. It also states that fewer states will strengthen democracy. A series of honor words are used that unfortunately have no content. The majority of the population say that the counties will have a stronger role to play in society, but until now the role has been weakened by the dwindling of regional development funds and fewer instruments in municipalities. The proposal to transfer responsibility for public transport to the largest cities is a new example of weakening the county municipality. The Naboprate states were invited to, and the recordings given after this, have not been listened to by the government. It is only one of the proposed mergers that are voluntary, and then I think about the Agder states, but also not where the central requirement for tasks and the transfer of state jobs has been met. I see that the time is running out of me, so I get to take the other one in a later article. Finally, however, I would like to raise the proposal of the Central Party which has been put forward in the voting, in addition to solving the proposal, and I would ask that there be a single vote on the minority proposals in the vote on Mr Prop. 96 S and also individually above the Prop setting. 84 S. I warn you that we will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. 17, from SV, in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e865	The representative Heidi Grini has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e872	The centre party has talked down the municipal reform on the inflated and depleted for three years. They have even put pressure on their own local politicians so that they do not participate in the important reform. Today, the phase of the municipal reform is that 156 municipalities have agreed that they want to merge, and of them 121 municipalities are merged into 47 new municipalities. Only 10 municipalities will be merged by coercion with the background of the regulations adopted by Stortinget. That means that there will be 354 municipalities on 1 January 2020, and that 32 pst. of the people of our country will have a new municipality. Nearly 100 municipalities merge through this reform – voluntary. There will be a serious blow on the faces of the Central Party at the central level, who has worked hard to talk down this reform. The question to Greni is: is it a drawer of Heidi Greni that stands here today? Does she have to realize that the voluntary municipal reform implemented by the government has been closed? And are almost 100 municipalities that voluntarily merge, more or less than they had seen at the start of the reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e883	Yes, it is a very disappointed Heidi Greni who stands here today – not because municipalities that have adopted voluntary bundling, now start these processes. On the contrary, those processes support the Center Party. But I am very disappointed with the government parties and the supporting parties, who have always said that this should be a voluntary reform and that they should listen to the local decisions and, as the last three to four years have called my threats of coercion coming, the fear propaganda of the Senter Party. Unfortunately, the Central Party's terror propaganda is being adopted here today in the Chamber, and I am very, very disappointed. I am disappointed that the Right and Government parties do not trust the local politicians, I am disappointed that they are going back on their promises that they will not be forced to do so, and I am disappointed and surprised that they also go far beyond the exceptions they had when it was opened up, for example. in the case of North Trøndelag.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e889	It's interesting to hear the representative Greni talk about how disappointed she is that one doesn't listen to local populace. We have local populace in 426 municipalities in Norway, including two in the North-West, in Flora and in Vågsøy, where the local populace have had a thorough process of municipal reform, and where both municipalities have landed that they want to join forces. So I'm going to record in the setting and in the word change that there's a slightly different approach to the Center Party than what they've had in all other cases. The Center Party says one knows best in Oslo. Probably in a closed back room with a few people in it, the central party is told that they do not trust the local democracy of Vågsøy and Flora – that when it comes to the merger, they know better in Oslo than in Vågsøy and Flora. I could imagine challenging the representative, also from this pulpit: why is it unwise, the decision a local one agrees on in Vågsøy and in Flora?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e896	In the case of Vågsøy and Flora, it was not part of the investigation carried out by the municipalities before the deadline for the municipal reform had expired. It wasn't an option they even discussed. It was an entirely unheard of option for them. Then came the threat of coercion, there was a threat that they would be coerced into directions they didn't want at all, etc., and in the last turn there was a municipal government decision on this, without there having been a referendum, without the inhabitants being properly involved, and without there being any good processes. I am sure the representative of Njåstad agrees with me that this does not meet the reform's intention of a coherent labour market region, because there are miles between these municipalities, and it is a very strange construction. The right-hand side does not vote for this either. The centre party opens, of course, so that these municipalities can take initiatives for new processes afterwards, and will be positive for such an initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e905	I probably belong to those who are a little disappointed with the Center Party in this case, because I remember well in the red-green period from my county period in Rogaland how we fought to try to get to something when it was just this. Now I hear that the Centre Party is disappointed with the timetable, the level of ambition, the means of reward, tasks, content and structure – yes, they are dissatisfied with everything. If you add it, I think they think we should have many more municipalities. One might have to go back to the 1960s before the central party's mood rises. Everything is called centralisation – contrary to both reason and fact – and we know everything about what the Central Party is now against, because they are against everything. Then I ask myself, can the representative, Mr. Greni, in 60 seconds, explain what would be the ideal model of the Centre Party to achieve a good municipal structure in Norway? Now we know all about volunteering, so take what comes in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e914	I don't even need 60 seconds, because the ideal thing is that it's the local politicians, who have the shoe on, who know what gives the best services to their citizens, who are going to be allowed to adopt this. For me, it's not a goal to have x the number of municipalities, it's not a goal that there should be no municipal mergers, it's not a goal that municipalities that might want to split up don't do it, it can be a case where it's good, but it's the local politicians who have to decide what's best for their citizens. The center party isn't against everything. The central party is not against the merger. The centre party was set up with the Council of State when the extension of the breakdown grant, i.e. from 10+5 to 15+5 years, was introduced. It was an incentive for community mergers. The fact that we are opposed to coercion and overrun of local democracy does not mean that we are against community reunification. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e921	Then it was 60 seconds left!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e926	It could be interesting if the representative, at least, had set up the following: that there is a partnership in public transport between the big cities and the county council, and that it requires full agreement. But that might not be very accurate. It could be interesting to drill a little bit more in this so-called volunteer. We are dealing with the fact that Vågsøy and Flora want to join forces, but I also see today that there is a loose proposal in this room where a wish for a postponement of Versand and Sandnes, based on volunteering. Then, of course, you can think of something about how that municipality is built, there may be several of us having opinions about it, but it's definitely a volunteer. And once again, the Center Party chooses many ways to ignore that volunteer. There's no consistency in their own policy on this. How can the representative Greni explain it to me – when one goes against Vågsøy and Flora, which is a local desire, and also goes against it as a majority of the municipal governments in Sandnes and Forsand want?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e933	If the representative of Skkelstad had read our proposal, he would have seen that we do not oppose it. We say that we vote in favour of Forsand and Sandnes, assuming that the local government of Forsand confirms its decision. As the representative may be informed, they had an extraordinary local government meeting because the majority had turned around and now does not want that municipal merger. They had an extraordinary municipal board meeting, but where it was not opened to argue about the case because the minority can stop it when there is an extraordinary municipal board meeting where this is not on the case list with a decision proposal. Therefore, we say that if the local government confirms that this is what they still want, we will go for it, but if the local government confirms that they have now turned around, we believe that we should respect it – because there have been many new moments in that case, among other things. the ferry link between these two municipalities will be lost. That means there's no direct communication between the two parts of the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e938	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e943	SV is in favour of voluntary mergers in both municipalities and counties, but we believe that there must be good grounds for implementing such heavy and far-reaching changes, and they must respond to the challenges we face in society, such as: is there enough quality in school, child protection, elderly care and planning around the municipalities? No, in some places it is not, but most of the time it is enough that the municipalities cannot afford to organise and hire enough qualified personnel to carry this out. Therefore, SV relies so much on the municipal sector and municipal politicians in Norway that we want them to have a larger share of the economy, so that you can have quality of service in all municipalities. But some may be small, and child protection has been drawn out as an example. In this area, there is a lot of intermunicipal cooperation. Some of it's good, and some of it might not be as good. But what is the government's answer to this? Well, it's coercion of municipalities. Some of them were quite large from before, and they then become very large, so that they are not close to being small and have these problems related to quality, for example. in the protection of children. So they're not solving this problem. In addition, the Stortinget adopted yesterday a child-restraint organisation, which requires additional tasks to be assigned to municipalities, which the government believes are too small to solve. So it just doesn't have any professional reason, what's done right now. You have tried to push child protection in front of you, but there has been an explanation that you haven't really taken seriously. Another major challenge we have is to get to an overall land and transport planning, especially out and in and around the big cities, so that we can get trains, public transport, homes and commercial areas where you can take all the increased traffic with collectives, corridors and bicycles. We must if we are to solve the climate problems. Has this municipal and regional reform solved any of this? Not at all, because binding land and transport planning has not been raised to the counties or regions. It could have solved some of this and really addressed a major and serious problem by getting this in place quickly. It has been proposed by SV, but the government parties and the support parties have voted it down. This applies to growth and development in depopulation districts. It is a major challenge in Norway today. Does local and regional reform respond to this? Not at all, because the government has halved regional policy instruments, cut into district policy and pursued a centralising policy in very many policy areas. We see that even ICT is used as a justification for centralising services that could have been localised locally and that could have caused growth and development. So merging some large municipalities into even larger municipalities doesn't solve any of this. Policies are needed in many areas to achieve this. There have been a number of voluntary mergers – that is good – without the local authorities being given any tasks that will have a particular impact on local democracy. SV's offer is that they will have a stronger municipal economy – yes, stronger than all the other parties here at Stortinget offer – so that they can solve the problems better and maybe have a few dollars left to develop in their municipalities. So to the regional reform, and then I want to say that SV is against coercion both in life and in politics. Merging regions and refurbishing the whole map of Norway for nothing, in fact for fewer tasks – I almost didn't believe what I've been doing lately. The Christian People's Party even stands here on the pulpit several times and repeats that they have saved the regions or the states. What's that? There's not a majority here in the Biggest for that. It's just the two government parties that want to put down the county municipalities. The Christian People's Party can have a majority with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV about it. It's just weird to say that something has been saved here. What you've done is you've gone to the government's limbs, which want to lower the level. And then you've been involved in "stacking" at this level, that's by opening the door to remove dental health. It is a well-functioning competence environment that has made the dental health of Norwegian children very good now. Why should you destroy it and give it to some big cities, and then the counties will be left with the rest? It's destroying well-functioning professional environments. Why do you have to destroy something that works? In the case of public transport, people need to move across borders and municipal borders – why should public transport be organised in individual municipalities or single cities, even if they are large? Look at this city, they're cooperating with Akershus, and they need to cooperate even more to make public transport work. There you should go the other way – not split up. I do not know how many bidding rounds there will be, and how much it will cost, when you now sit and negotiate with many fewer – not to forget that there will be a worse offer for the inhabitants – but all the extra red tape this will cause will be the government's problem. The government is justifying some of these mergers because intermunicipal cooperation is so wrong. But in this area and in the field of dentistry, they say, "You have to split up here first, and then you have to create new structures that are not popular, but that you have to have as a cooperative body to make this work afterwards – that is, exactly what you've stood up to and argued against. There are some tasks that the majority today want to add to the states, but that the government has opposed. It is common road management. It's been a long time since SV said we should have. We're for it, the states want it, it's meaningful for them to have it, and it's important for the inhabitants of the counties. But the government has been against it. Now the majority here in the hall has turned around, and it's all right. But this is a really meaningless reform, when you don't intend to add big, new, heavy tasks to these regions. So you've drawn a map, and the map is so strange that you even make this region around Oslo Earth, where Oslo remains as an island, where you really needed to work together. If you had meant anything about this, you must at least have manned yourself to do it properly, in terms of both tasks and geography. My home country, Hedmark, is now being joined together with Uppland and is supposed to be called Homeland, so I'm going to be a "resident", unlike the others, who then become "foreigners," I expect. The county councils in Hedmark and Uppland have not wanted this merger, because the tasks are not coming. Now you're making a difficult unit that there's no community in the population, for the valleys that go northward and southward, not eastward and westward. Whoever has a small atlas at home can look at it and see that there's not so much going on across there. With fewer tasks, probably the Right Party and the Advance Party have put forward a strategy that this will then become so meaningless and so little important to people that it will be easier to put it down in the next round. That sticker has the Christian People's Party and the Left on it, and I'm very sorry for that, because it wouldn't have been necessary at all. In the case of the various municipal mergers, SV will vote in favour of the volunteers and against the coercive mergers. We are promoting our own proposal on Shipping and Sandnes. We do that because that's been a little bit of a continuous circus in the last few days. SV is not against the fact that these two municipalities merge, but we believe the most tidy thing now is to postpone this matter. If they agree during the summer and come to the government that had to sit then, and say that they would join forces, SV should vote for it on a tight arm. Like the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, SV also says to the municipalities and counties that are now being coerced, that if we have influence after the election and you ask to be split again, SV will be involved, because the damage has not yet occurred. I would like to mention the suggestions that SV has in the different settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e979	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e986	SV says that one is for the voluntary mergers, but is quite happy that the ones that meet together are coming together. At the same time, we know that there are a lot of municipalities that don't have the power to solve their problems on their own. The representative was in on it himself. There are many municipalities that lack key staff in important welfare positions. Many municipalities lack skilled child protection workers, they lack nursing doctors, physiotherapists in nursing homes, midwives, and they stand without psychologists. Then the representative makes it sound like it's going to solve by granting more money. However, it is not because there is a lack of budgetary resources for these posts that this is not achieved. It's because you can't get hold of people. You can't recruit people into what's not a strong environment of competence. Instead of ‘outsources’ many municipalities direct these tasks to intercommunal solutions. Does SV think it is a better solution that the local government “outsourcer” this to intercommunal companies than to solve it yourself? And does the representative agree that if we get fewer municipalities, which can do the job themselves, it will be better than ever more intercommunal companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e994	Yes, there may be advantages and disadvantages with intercommunal companies, but using the word ‘outsource’ is certainly a bit special, especially from the Right, which wants to ‘outsource’ the welfare tasks directly to private suppliers. It's something completely different. But SV wants municipalities and counties to have a better economy, so that they can afford to hire people in all positions, for example. It's very important to recruit people. We are not opposed to inter-municipal cooperation, but in the case of e.g.: Child protection, I was in my post that because those tasks can be so heavy and difficult that many municipalities are not able to do them, it could be better to raise them to the state level, where those tasks were before. Then you get big, heavy professional environments that can work well. The right is doing the opposite now to dental health, which takes a good, heavy professional environment and splits it up to the municipalities, which could have problems implementing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1003	The representative had some interesting considerations about the Christian People's Party that I can well imagine discussing in a different context. The Christian People's Party participates where we achieve targeted results in order to improve the situation for people, and draws the whole Biggest in a more social direction. I'm very proud of what we've done. When it is said that the red-green could also have supported a regional reform, they had eight years and got nothing done. That's why we went into cooperation with a government that said that here we want to show action, here we want to do something. Otherwise, it was said from the red-green that the Christian People's Party would not be on the team either. It was also said, so you can't distort it. Otherwise I hear that the municipalities should have had more autonomy, more freedom, etc. But then I heard the words ‘overall spatial planning’, and I know SV’s centralist ideology. Does the representative believe that the regions should be a over-municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1012	The reason I got hold of the Christian People's Party now was because on several occasions the representative Tuskedal just stood there and said they had saved the level of the region because it was a majority to put it down. It's not true, because it's just the Advance Party and the Right that want to lower the regional level. Therefore, this is not a rescue operation, but part of a planned strategy from the government to put the county council down, and that limbon has the Christian People's Party on. Yes, I said overall land and transport planning, and yes, it's an over-municipal task. SV is not afraid of it, because we believe that this is a task that regions or counties could well solve, and solved much better than the individual municipalities can. Because I can't imagine how large those municipalities would be that could solve this problem, with the large distances that will be covered in that case. I also do not believe that the Christian People's Party wishes to see as strong a community as it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1019	Since the representative Karin Andersen is from Hedmark and had a visit to the new Inland, and I am from Uppland, must I ask Karin Andersen what solidarity is there in that Hedmark should have four hospitals, that Uppland should have one hospital, and that we should continue with the two states? It's a drainage and an inequality we can't continue with. But that's not what I was going to ask, because the Left and the SV often stand together in the fight for the weak groups. Where we separate layers, it's when it comes to tax collection, where SV is the most tax collector and will charge 40 billion. kr more from the citizens in order to create quality in services, within which Andersen's representative was present. But when you want to fight for the weak, it's just 10 pst. of the municipalities which have a municipal lawyer to fight for children's protection. We have 191 bodyguards, and we have 428 municipalities. We have 46 crisis centers, and we have 428 municipalities. Half of the municipalities do not have a municipal psychologist. How are we going to get this terrain to agree, and why are we going to spend 40 billion? kr more on so much administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1026	The number with which the representative operates now, I don't know exactly where he came from. However, the SV has proposed, and the Left has voted against in the Storting during this period, for example. that we have encouraged the municipalities to establish a joint office for lawyers and lawyers. That's what they need, because there's a lot of competence here. Often when you use such skills, you may risk meeting the one you have learned in your case in the next round, as a counterparty to a legal case. It is absolutely right that Kommune-Norge should cooperate more on different types of professional skills that they need. They need it in the climate and nature field. There SV has proposed that we should demand such professional competence. Later today, we are going to vote in favour of what the Labour Party and the Centre are voting against, in order to determine professional competence in the municipal sector, because we believe that this is necessary, and it could solve some of this. In addition, SV grants a much better community economy than the one on which the Left is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1033	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1038	The government's project to collect the country's counties and municipalities in fewer and larger units has ended up in coercion and poor digestion. It seems that the Green Party is a pity, because it is important that Norwegian municipalities and counties adapt to the tasks they face, and that they should enter into the future. That's why we're voting for some contractions -- where the populace is for it -- but we remember what the Stortinge said the last time we discussed this reform: ‘If, after a comprehensive assessment and having obtained views from its citizens, municipalities conclude that aggregation is not currently relevant, this is a conclusion that the majority considers it necessary to be respected.’ This is what the Greens stand for. It is a paradox that a reform aimed at strengthening local democracy is being implemented by overcoming local democracy. That is why we are voting against groupings that are not supported by the citizens. We are voting against aggregation in e.g. Flora, Vågsøy and Bremander and – until further notice – in municipalities where there is uncertainty about the local consensus, such as in Forsand and Sandnes. In Akershus, where I make a choice in this decision, Skedsmo, Fet and Sørum are being run over. People in both Fet and Skedsmo voted no. If I am elected to the Things of Akershus, I will work to ensure that the populace is respected in those municipalities – just as I am going to work for what people of Asker, Smoke and Hurum have decided, to go together, also to be respected and supported. The Greens have supported regional reform. Strong regions are important for future preservation. But unlike the government parties, we also want the regions to continue to be a strong, popularly elected level. Above all, we believe that regional reform must have a clear objective. The regional reform should be green and should be targeted as a tool for the transition to a sustainable society, which all of Norway now needs to implement. Regions should become efficient and sustainable, with green shifts and zero emissions as objectives, and with a strong economic development within the framework of cultural, natural and environmental requirements ensuring the main objective: high quality of life for citizens. The regional reform we are debating today lacks these dimensions. The mergers proposed today can therefore only be supported in the case of Agder, where the popular anchoring is solid. But today, the majority will also push my own state, Akershus, along with Buskerud and Østfold into a difficult, geographically knotty Viken region, which is a sad example of this whole reverse process. A lot of people argue that a coup d'état around Oslofjorden can be reasonable, but then you should start with a good municipal process, and based on the result of it you should go further – and not enter a completely irrational assumption of sacred municipal boundaries. A key condition for a regional reform to deliver meaning and results is that regions are given sufficiently important tasks. The government's proposals involve far too little, and that is an important reason for the lack of enthusiasm for most of the merger proposals. It also means that regional reform should have continued and strengthened the role of coordinator and protection of national values. I would therefore like to mention one of the most important natural protection policies implemented by the government during this period, and that is the weakening of the State's protection of nature and food in the counties and municipalities. The move of the plan department from the Ministry of Climate and Environment to the Ministry of Local Affairs, and the subsequent imposition on the county councillors of a reduction in the use of objections, was directly active anti-natural and anti-food policies, and has also had that consequence. Today, therefore, we are promoting two loose proposals to reverse these grips. Moreover, I cannot go through all the proposals that have been made, but we are voting in favour of proposals from the Workers' Party with more that tasks that facilitate political judgement are added to the popular level, and that institutions such as Innovation Norway, higher education, dental health, collective services, etc. are maintained at the regionally elected level. Local and regional reform has been a skin process. It has been a reform for the sake of reform. It has not had clear objectives, and it has had inappropriate assumptions and partly a reverse order. The government has not promised to listen to the regions and give them more tasks, and therefore this process has become a poorly exploited option.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1064	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1071	The NRK recently discovered that sewers from 1.5 million inhabitants go poorly cleaned or unexplained straight into the sea. In this context, Værøy municipality in the Lofoten interview, they have not had a technical manager in over 20 years. The councilman admitted happily that they are not close to meeting the requirements, and it is not only about them among many small municipalities on the coast, and otherwise also. Does the Greens agree that strong disciplines in municipalities are important to help reduce and prevent environmental damage and greenhouse gas emissions? And how will the Green Party help us get stronger municipalities that can take care of and build up such professional environments when it's not the money that's challenging, but simply the ability to get into and put together good trade unions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1076	Thank you for a good question. In the Green Party, we fully agree that strong trade unions in municipalities and counties are necessary to address the environmental concerns – and many other concerns – raised by the representative. That's one of the reasons why we were so critical of the grip that was done under the previous government, with the liquidation of the specifically earmarked environmental positions that existed in the municipalities, which provided some of the considerations mentioned here. We support the municipalities more in our budget to give them the opportunity, among other things. to be able to take such considerations into account, and we are in favour of restoring earmarked environmental positions in the municipalities. But at the same time, as opposed to e.g. The Party Right, we are strong followers of a strong trade union environment also at state level, which is to take care of the overall government leaders, among others. on sewerage issues. Without that, I think the result is going to be worse, not better, than it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1083	This is the subject of my question, and the representative responds to it so far, but in order to challenge more directly: if it is not necessarily on the budget money of each municipality to get into and build good professional environments, how will the Green Party help us to get stronger municipalities in Norway, which can build stronger trade unions both on the environment, on the technical side and in other areas? Does the Green Party have a strategy for this? Would you like to be involved and support further work on the reform of the municipality? Does it mean that we need fewer and stronger municipalities in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1089	We work at both municipal and national level for better environmental policies in municipalities. Had there been more representatives of the Green Party in the Røst municipality, environmental policy would certainly have been better there. The problem is perhaps too many right-wing representatives on the local government, not the professional competence for pollution. But we are also of the opinion that municipalities should have the freedom to make their own decisions in the framework of state orders. That is why we are concerned with the combination of municipal freedom, but with clear state leadership, which is followed up at the county level and not undermined by right-wing politicians who weaken the county's right of objection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1096	I have a question for the representative of the Greens on the environment and climate. Because there's one party that's really concerned about it, it's this party. The Labour Party is also concerned with the environment and climate, and we have been concerned that we should shift responsibility for the environment and climate from County to the regionally elected level. At that time, both the environmental and climate work had been strengthened and the responsibility for it had increased at regional level. Are there any ideas that the Greens could put behind them?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1101	It appeared very far along the way of my post that these are definitely thoughts that we are putting ourselves behind. The challenge to the Workers' Party will be, for example: whether they will support our proposal to reverse the move of the Plan Department, which was in the Ministry of Climate and Environment and is now in the Ministry of Municipal and Modernisation, back to the Ministry of Climate and Environment, which is precisely the root of the protection that the regional level could also provide for nature, the environment, food soil – and other considerations – in a future Norway with larger and fewer regions. I hope the Workers' Party will support it already in today's vote, and that the Workers' Party will make a clear commitment to reverse the move of the Plan Department, from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation back to the Ministry of Climate and Environment, if they have government power.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1106	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1111	Today, the Stortinget makes a historic decision. In many parts of the country, provision is now made for better services to be provided to citizens as a result of an increase in the size and strength of municipalities. Thank you to the Committee for its thorough and thorough consideration. Since the beginning of the 1990s, the need for municipal reform has been on the political agenda. Several attempts at reform have been made, but it has stopped. After the 2013 elections, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right agreed that a municipal reform would now take place – and we do. In the summer of 2014, I invited all the municipalities to start the chat. There has been an impressive job in the municipalities. Local politicians from all parties have worked well, and municipalities led by all the political colors have agreed to merge. It shows that the community reform is not a party political project, but a necessary reform work to ensure good services for the inhabitants where they live, now and in the future. Both elected and employees in municipalities have shown good leadership, seen 10–20 years ahead and concluded that they will be stronger with others. They have made the demanding choice. The choice is based on knowledge of what we know comes: more older, fewer workers, more advanced services and, at the same time, greater expectations from the population. This must be handled under tighter economic conditions. Someone's talking about the municipal reform being centralisation. Then they should look back. In the last 35 years, the large municipalities have had more inhabitants and the small municipalities fewer inhabitants, without a local reform. The alternative to municipal reform is not that everything is going to be what it was. No, the option is enhanced centralisation, more detailed state management and increasing differences in quality of service between municipalities. Right can't live with that. We want equivalent services where people live. We have to assume that since the last major reform in the 1960s, there have been major changes in society – the way we live, travel, work and communicate – and the municipalities have been given far more and more demanding tasks than they had before. The government will take care of the Norwegian tradition of strong welfare municipalities that have a large, local autonomy. Local reform is therefore not about changing society; local reform is about changing society. Municipal reform has also been a demonstration of local involvement and democracy, not an overrun of local democracy, as some claim. Wide-ranging involvement across the country has been invited, and it has been well organised for citizens to be heard, both through referendums and through community surveys. However, it is important to stress that in Norway we have a representative democracy, that it is the elected representatives of the local authorities who finally take the decision, and that the Stortinget has a overall responsibility for how to organise our country and our welfare. It is also the responsibility of the Grand Duchy to ensure good and equivalent services for its citizens. It is the responsibility of the population that children in need of child protection are given a good school and that a person in need of mental health care is given this, regardless of where you live. There are worrying differences between small and large municipalities. Of course, there are differences between the small and the large, but a comprehensive report from among others. Economic research centres show that the smallest municipalities are getting worse in terms of performance or content of important municipal services. They score lower on results, e.g. at school. Minor municipalities also have major recruitment problems both in primary and care schools. In a separate survey of consultants, it is clear that they assess the competence and capacity as lower than in larger municipalities, especially in health and care. In both drug and mental health, municipalities with over 15 000 inhabitants report significantly higher personnel capacity and competence than other municipalities. Without a municipal reform, these differences will continue to increase in the coming years. The same applies to important tasks related to social development. Results show that capacity in social and spatial planning and industrial development is very low in municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants. This is important findings, because the societal development role is essential for creating growth and development in a municipality, and without this capacity it will be difficult to prevent relocation, move and work for economic development. The parties who say no to community reform have no response to how to meet these challenges. Today's proposals for mergers are largely based on voluntary and mutual decisions. This has always been the starting point of the reform. There are a few exceptions, where the decision of the Storting will go across decisions of the local government. We go from 428 to 354 municipalities in 2020 with these decisions. Nearly two out of three residents live in a municipality where the local government has decided that they want or are positive for a merger, and about one out of three inhabitants get a new municipality through the municipal reform. The government will build society from below. We want strong local communities and living local democracies where power and responsibility are as close to the decisions as possible. This is why we put greater emphasis on local self-government, for example. in the case of matters relating to spatial planning. This is why we move more tasks to municipalities – not for local government representatives to do more, but for citizens to get better services. More tasks and more powers will also make it more interesting to be a local politician. We have confidence that elected representatives of all parties throughout the country will do well for their citizens. We want societies that are created and developed from below. Several tasks for municipalities will contribute to this. The majority of the majority of the population have moved on to a popular level between the state and the municipality. The size has also decided that a regional reform will be carried out, resulting in about ten elected regions. The county structure has been solid since the 1800s. Society has been radically changed at this time. There have been several attempts at reform in the past. I hear now that someone is talking about the reversal of today's decisions. They take on a great responsibility. Now we have the opportunity to implement what has been going on for decades. To reverse the regional or local reform, there will be more unrest, more discussions and new reform measures. I believe that the proposal for a new division provides a good basis for further developing the county councils as community developers. The division provides a good balance between the different counties, more functional housing and work regions and also a basis for stronger professional environments. The government is proposing to transfer more new tasks, and we will also set up an expert committee to look at new tasks to county municipalities. I record that some people say that, yes, they are in favour of regional reform, but there should have been more tasks. Then the question is, What kind of tasks? We hear very little about that. And when the government proposes to move problems, you go against it because there's some group that protests. Now we're laying the foundation for a new municipal structure that can provide citizens with better services. We provide the basis for a new regional structure that enables regions to contribute to the development of their role as a social developer. This is a good basis for better services for citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1157	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1162	When the Right and Advance Party took over the government power in 2013, Prime Minister Erna Solberg said in his Declaration of Accession that the government should build its policy more on confidence in the inhabitants. The government was to give citizens greater confidence, and the government was to have confidence that elected representatives would do the best for their communities. Today, the same government adds that 11 counties and about 30 municipalities with 350,000 inhabitants are involved in forced mergers. What happened to the government's confidence that people out there understand their own best?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1169	The government has implemented a number of measures both to demonstrate greater confidence in municipalities and individuals and to give them greater freedom and freedom of choice in everyday life. It is a bit funny that this line comes from a representative who has really raised the issue of forced use. The working party has become a party which, over a period of time, assumes the role of being able to mean absolutely everything. Where has the leadership become national? I am deeply impressed by the local politicians, including those from the Workers' Party, who have shown leadership locally. I record that several of them have vented their frustration, among other things. at a KS meeting that the Evening Post wrote about in February 2016, where it reads: "We were several who challenged Sturgeon for lack of support for the reform, but he only gave vague answers." I understand the frustration of many Labour Party politicians locally feeling towards the central leadership of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1179	Now I think the Council of State should be more concerned about whether he has membership of the government parties here in the Chamber than about the fact that there are some votes in the Workers' Party that disagree with what the National Assembly of the Workers' Party has voted three times in a row. But the council didn't answer my question, because I asked, what happened with the government's confidence that residents and elected representatives around the country will do the best for their communities and make decisions based on it? Is it true that government parties rely only on local democracy and regional democracy when they receive the answers they want? Or is trust dependent on the party book, which the evening post could point out in February, which shows that the Right Party and the Advance Party protect their own municipalities from coercion? What is the reason why Rogaland exists as its own state, while Finnmark, which is as large as Denmark, is forced to coerce with the neighbouring state?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1186	The trust and commitment that we have had for – I was saying – a joint project that Stortinget has been engaged in, namely that we should get bigger and stronger municipalities, has given us almost 100 mutually voluntary municipal mergers, almost 100 municipalities are involved in this. But then there are some places where one municipality is between two that have said yes. It's not going to be a functional municipality. For example, in the inner Eastfold, there is a Right-Rapporteur in Spydeberg who today has a decision to go with Hobøl, Askim, Eidsberg and Rakkestad. There are some exceptions, and they were also the Workers' Party for in 2014, they wrote in the setting that there could be exceptions in special situations. And where two municipalities say yes, like Mandal and Marnardal, is it right that Lindesnes should say no? Or as around Ålesund, where Haram lies between Ålesund and Sandøy, is it right that one municipality should lie between the other two? We also have to have a functional municipal structure, and we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1191	Today we have an important thing; it is a historic day of successful reform in very many ways. But the Christian People's Party will go on, and as a constructive opposition party, we are now curious about what the big parties think about the way forward. To my delight and to some surprise, we were today confirmed by the Workers' Party that they would not only have today's reward schemes, they would also extend them, they would strengthen them, and they would not date them. It may be on the edge of surrender policy, but it remains to be seen. My question is: Since many municipalities have come halfway through the reform and can well imagine going further, what does the Council of State see as a straightforward reward scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1199	In the future, we will also facilitate the local authorities to cover their one-off costs and also to have a system to help municipalities during a transitional period. How favorable those arrangements should be is something we intend to discuss with the Christian People's Party and the Left after the elections when we're going to discuss the way further. But I want to take this opportunity to also thank the Christian People's Party for their important role in the community reform. There is no doubt that without these four parties having clearly said that we are now going to carry out a municipal reform, little would have happened, because municipal reform has been discussed for 50 years without much happening. But because the four parties said that now is the time, and have arranged for it, we've got almost 100 municipalities that have mutual voluntary agreements. Then there are some places where it's absolutely right that the Storting cuts through, in line with what a broad majority said in 2014. However, we agree that the community reform must continue – it is important for citizens to be able to ensure equivalent services.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1204	Centralisation leads to centralisation. During this period, the government has made it clear that we have been given a new breakdown of the county offices. They have managed to ensure that we have a new division of the police districts. They are able today – perhaps – to ensure that we get a new breakdown of the so-called regions. But the amazing thing is that there are different divisions. There are no corresponding limits; there are crossings and crossings. And then there's some uncertainty about which economies of scale we're going to have. What the government has done in its so-called simplification work is to create more divisions and more roots. The representative of the Tuskedal said it very well today: we have produced a result that no parties really agree with. Then I ask the Council of State: does the Council of State agree with the result in terms of new regionalisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1213	The answer to that question is yes, it is the Council of State. I agree with the division that is now in place. The representative Tuskedal also had another good point. He pointed out that the Centre Party is largely dissatisfied with everything – that one has to go back to the 1960s to get the Centre Party in a good mood in terms of municipal structure. The point is that we now have to look forward to how we're going to solve the problems for the benefit of the population. The central party is talking about centralization, but that centralization has taken place while the central party has been sitting in the government offices. There have been fewer farms and fewer schools in the periods in which the Senterpartiet has been in government. We are now looking forward to securing good services for our citizens. I am concerned that the most vulnerable among us, regardless of where they live, are going to have strong professional environments. The Central Party has not presented a single alternative to that of a majority in this Chamber. You're pretty much just dissatisfied and critical. It's a little constructive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1220	The right is the leading representative for the centralisation of jobs and housing — and also the leading representative for the centralisation of power. The core of this case is the centralization of power, in order to centralize activity, in order to centralize Norway – I know the Right from many years back. The right reinforces the centralisation forces in all their work. The government - with the Right - will now use force to do it: if you don't want it, you will. It also applies to counties: Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud. It is not a majority in Eastfold and Akershus, nor is it a majority in Buskerud, because the Labour Party has turned around. It's also coercive in that area. People don't understand, how in the world can you do something like that? How will this work? My question is: What friends does the Council of State of Sanner – other than politicians – have to go in to join Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1229	We believe that this is the right decision. If you look at how the infrastructure is now built around the Oslo area, you can see that it binds Ringerijk and Drammens region up to Akershus and up to Oslo. If you look at Follobanen and railway development and road construction southwards, you can see that it binds Eastfold up to Akershus and Oslo. The Viking region is forward-looking. I notice that the Center Party says that they are against community reform because it is centralisation. At the same time, the centre party will vote for almost 100 of the mutually voluntary agreements. Is it centralisation – or is it only in the case of the ten municipalities where the Stortinget takes the decision? Right wants to decentralize and shift power. We're adding the main function to the County of Leikanger, not to Bergen. We're adding it to Steinkjer, not to Trondheim, we're adding it to Arendal, not to Kristiansand. We move power, responsibility and government jobs into the country to strengthen the labour markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1240	One of the government’s original reasons was to strengthen the offer to the inhabitants — and perhaps to some of those who are most disadvantaged, as the Council of State now said. Child protection has been used as an example of this, and it is quite right that there is a need to strengthen child protection, both in large and small municipalities. Therefore, SV – rather than tax relief, as the Right’s priority – prioritises money for this and earmarks it, so that we know that there will be child protection of the money. The municipal reform now being implemented does not respond to this, as many small municipalities are still responsible for child protection. Yesterday, the government – and Stortinget voted in favour – proposed to add even more responsibility for child protection in these small municipalities. In addition, both the Council of State and the parties here in Stortinget are talking down cooperation. I want to ask the Council of State: When was cooperation between municipalities to solve problems for quad and something that is critical, when we know that it is going to be needed in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1247	I'm for cooperation. In many areas, it would be quite natural for municipalities to work together to solve important tasks. But I'm also very much for local democracy. When we see that municipalities have moved out not only 10, but not only 20, but 30–40–50–60 tasks from the local government hall – and the responsibility to lie there – and to intercommunal cooperation, we weaken local democracy. I want to move more tasks and more responsibility back to the local government room. It strengthens local democracy. I'm worried about the almost 100 municipalities that have fewer than two child protection professionals. I'm worried about what happens when there are so vulnerable professional environments. It's the kids who lose. That's why the municipal reform is going to continue, and I'm glad that there's a large majority in the Stortinget that agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1256	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1261	It was a prominent government council that proclaimed that this was a historic day. Yes, that's how it can also be said. And it can be historical, with the back of it, that there's rarely such a distance between a case – let's say – intentions and objectives and what is actually and practically feasible to implement after you have summarised the facts of the case. Because when the intention of regional reform is to contribute to a decentralised power to a regionally elected level, while at the same time strengthening democracy, as the rapporteur also said with weight, it is of course great intentions, but it is good to stress, I think, that the result is the exact opposite. The popularly elected level is being ignored, and the regional level is not being strengthened, it is a fact that it is being weakened. It is not the case that more tasks or new tasks of major importance are transferred to the regional level which makes this a stronger choice of people and not least a popular level of greater importance for the population — no, on the contrary: the regions proposed reinforce regional disparities. Both geographical and population structures make this visible with all clarity. There's neither purpose nor meaning behind this. There will be no more convergence between state and regional organisation and the regionally elected level, as the case has been presented, and democratically it will not strengthen the elected regional level. It indicates that this is the beginning of a disassembly of the third elected level. I don't believe in the Christian People's Party as the reason, that this is the salvation of the third elected level. No, on the contrary: this is the beginning of a degradation, and Karin Andersen said it quite correctly that here is the Christian People's Party tricked. It is quite obvious that the government parties – and not least the Council of State – can be grateful for the position that exists, because there are at least not many good reasons for maintaining the third elected level after that conclusion has been drawn and adopted in the Grand Duchy. We should start at the other end and very clearly put forward more tasks, especially perhaps in the field of nutrition, the environment and culture, as the Workers' Party has proposed. And the Labour Party, through minority proposals in the case, has a number of proposals that would strengthen the third elected level. But they're being discouraged, they're becoming depressed in this so-called process of democracy -- or making the elected regions stronger. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get So one should have transferred a lot more problems. One should, of course, if this is to have sustainability over time, look at more uniform structures than what was done in this case. Here one builds the opposite -- stronger inequalities are what are built through this case. One, of course, had not failed – and not included – Oslo. When you think of Buskerud, Akershus and Eastfold, without Oslo, there's little connection in the structure. When you think Vestfold and Telemark, there is little they have in common except that they are close to each other and have cooperated well, but historically they have no function together, cooperatively and regionally. That's why they've clearly concluded that it's not a desirable way to go. But, as I said, the Right Party and the Advance Party think this is a good way to go, is understandable enough. Actually, they don't care so much about it, because their political ideology is based on the fact that they want to remove the third elected level. That the Christian People's Party actually chooses to vote for it, I'm amazed at it. That the Left does that, when I heard the representative of Skkelstad, I am not surprised, because he considers this a major element in the democratisation of Norway – a total misassessment, in my opinion. Finally, it is stressed that the fact that the Workers' Party will not carry out coercive mergers is risky. No, it's not risky, it's quite natural for such a bad case, with such a bad argument, and without logical conclusions associated with this regional reform. Everything suggests that what is now being done by coercion is not to be done. The rationale lies at that point. And that the Council of State does not choose to understand it, underlines in a way that the Council of State does not understand the need and how to implement a regionalisation of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1278	I hope it doesn't go 50 years until the next time we take such a reform as the one we are now facing. It's a historic day. We go from 19 to 11 county municipalities. We go from 428 to 354 municipalities. There has been a laborious work with great involvement in municipalities, in county municipalities and in the work we have had here in Stortinget. We have opted for a local reform in the Right, not for the sake of reform, but because the need to do so in order to ensure welfare services for the inhabitants has been present. We also went to the elections to wind up the county councils, and today we can rejoice that we have half a win by halving them. Today's government implements what we got in the contract with the voters. It's something bigger than the size, and it's the selection. That's the contract we've concluded with our voters. The previous government tried. It was a unique seminar – I was in the county during that period – where a few tasks were changed to the county councils and in addition transferred some worn-out roads, without following funds with it. It was a stomach patch. It was a state-of-the-art reform both in terms of municipal structure and in terms of making changes with county municipalities. It has been announced from below, both from local politicians, citizens and from politicians in the county councils. Maintaining the structure of the day, especially with regard to the county councils – I will mention them in particular – would lead to a discussion of the future of the county councils. Already in 2005, the Workers' Party believed that the county municipalities were too small for the tasks they thought they should have. You needed bigger regions. If you look at the party programmes from the Workers' Party, you're right to say it. In 2017 they are big enough. It's the status quo, and the recipe would still be confusion. District policy is important for the Right. More robust municipalities ensure that we get just the attractive work environments that enable us to achieve in the next round what is the goal of everything we do, namely to provide citizens with better welfare services and a quality that is consistent across the country. I have been listening to the debate and have to say that the precision of language is so diverse. Eastfold will continue to be Eastfold. Finnmark will still be Finnmark, and Buskerud will be Buskerud. All the counties will pass. No counties will be terminated. It's based in the Constitution, because it's our constituency. That's not what's going on today, but what we're changing today is that we're about to halve the elected level called County. It was established in the 1960s, and before – for some of us are so good adults – it was the rapporteurs of the government that gathered to adopt tasks that were too large or that were of common interest between the municipalities. The county municipality came in the 1960s, and that is what we are now changing by halving – not the counties, but the county municipalities, the politically elected level. That's what we're dealing with. This will ensure that funds are released from both bureaucracy and from the position of elected politicians – as I have read it – estimated at at least 300 million. kr per year – which we can plow to other tasks for the joy of the inhabitants, it is high school, county roads and a number of other things. The house is being built. The furniture continues. And I have to remind you, as I remember, that the regional state is about 32 in the number with 36 different geographical divisions. And the right is that we should just continue the assignment of tasks to county councils – the new – and to municipalities – the larger – so that we can get the short-term jobs and strengthen exactly what is out of government in the whole country. It's called district policy, and it's called building the country from below, as requested, and the way we signed the contract when we joined the top: the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1306	This is a reform put to work by the rapporteurs themselves. And I think it's great that so many rapporteurs and communities have seen the opportunity to grow bigger and stronger. The implementation of the municipal reform is a result of the fact that it has been sought for many years by municipal politicians and professionals. It's not according to government demands. The municipal reform is a process that started from below and was ordered by local politicians from the Progress Party, the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party at their national meetings. The reform is based on voluntary action by the municipalities themselves having had talks and making agreements with their neighbouring municipalities. It's not like that, as I heard it was said in Political Quarter today, that it's been sitting four or five pieces in Oslo and drawing a map – on the contrary. I think it is appropriate to thank the Committee and the cooperation parties for the way in which they have handled the process and worked. We have a committee with an enormous knowledge of each hook in our long-term country, and the commitment of these politicians is based on a sincere desire to make the services of the citizens the best possible. I know that the doors of the Stortinget have been open to rapporteurs, and everyone has been listened to. The Committee has been on a tour throughout the country and has listened to the views of local elected representatives. During their visit to Haugalandet, committee member and staging representative Tuskedal was both a guide and a bus driver. Whether it was the trip or the good arguments the local politicians made, at least all the municipalities have been listened to in Rogaland. This, I believe, shows that the government and cooperation parties respect local democracy. Community merger creates debate and commitment. I was seven years old when Karmøy in 1965 became one municipality, and remember well how the discussion went at home, whether they should vote for or oppose aggregation. Initially, there was great resistance to bringing together seven municipalities into one municipality. While this was going on, Norsk Hydro planned to establish itself in the area, but such an establishment actually required a large and powerful municipality. As a result, the atmosphere in the municipality turned, the atmosphere of the Stortinget turned upside down, and the Stortinget showed power of action and coerced two municipalities. Today, we can thank both a powerful cave and Norsk Hydro for bringing Karmøy together to one municipality, and that we also had the airport added to the municipality. Today, I don't think there's anyone who regrets that the Storting showed the power of action and overthrew the two municipalities that wouldn't. Many have changed since the 1960s, for example. population patterns, communication opportunities, business structure, welfare needs, and expectations of the municipality and the need for competence. The community reform is being implemented to meet the changed conditions and to create strong municipalities that will meet the expectations of the present and future municipalities. In the debate on mergers, we can talk about both red tape, economics and municipal borders, but this debate is as much as possible about strengthening the provision and services that are most important to the population. It is about providing a better school offer to young people, a larger range of kindergartens, and it is about strengthening the competence of child protection and about giving older people a better daily life – without imposing property taxes or other taxes. It is about ensuring good services throughout the country and providing quality welfare services in the future. The main reason why we are implementing a community reform is that we want to reduce bureaucracy and create a better service provision for most people. Major municipalities provide stronger trade unions. This allows resources and competences to be used smarter. Better use of resources also provides a more efficient service provision. It is important for us that municipalities should not lose weight in joining forces, which is why good support schemes have been put in place. The Progress Party wants strong municipalities that can have more tasks and more responsibilities. For the Progress Party, the municipal reform involves shifting power from Oslo and closer to people most. We are committed to making decisions as close as possible to the people. Several tasks will enable municipalities to develop a more comprehensive and coherent service provision for citizens. It will strengthen local community and local self-determination.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1325	It's not all days at work that's as funny. Today I have a bad day, to which I have feared. But I sincerely hope that it is not my last day as a northerner. Today, 1475 bonds and I are being coerced together and forced to move. In the name of justice, it should be said that there are also some bonds that think this is right. Let me start with some facts. After reading a letter from the representative of Skkelstad to the rapporteur in Bindal, it is absolutely in place. On 8 December 2015, Bindal City Council adopted a unanimous decision to set in motion a process of enhanced cooperation northwards – in conjunction with the other municipalities of South-Helgeland. This was reconfirmed, once again unanimously, by Bindal Municipal Council on 31 May 2016. There have been several public meetings. Surveys have been carried out on the part of Bindal located on the beautiful island of Austria. That's where I live. It's not a big island, and on low tide you can cross the current that separates us from the mainland. But you don't have one we've got. What many people think is so special about this island is that there is room for two counties and three municipalities. Questionnaire was ready. Almost 70 pst. of the bindinglings living in Austria will continue to be bindings. So when the representative of Skkelstad, who has been the architect behind this forced practice, in that letter to the rapporteur in Bindal, strongly doubts that there are some real unanimous decisions in Bindal on the northwards, it is not surprising that the result is what it is going to be today. What I'm equally surprised about is that the Right Party and the Advance Party are involved in this coercion decision. State Council Sanner has many times stated that it is only when municipalities stand in the way of other voluntary mergers, that it is to be used as a coercion. Bindal is not in the way of anyone. What should worry more is that the forced movement of Bindal to Trøndelag is hitting the South-Helgeland region hard. This is so worrying at least for the South-Helgeland Regional Council that they have taken an opinion where the main message is a significant deterioration of the region and that there will be very resource-intensive processes for the four remaining municipalities in South-Helgeland. We work together, among other things: on the protection of children, the PPT and other areas of school. What a lot of people ask is why exactly Bindal should be coerced and forced to move. It's an unusually good question, to which no one has been able to give us a good answer. The many fears are that the household stream is going to be 25 pst. More expensive, farmers lose subsidies, and our good welfare services in health are being weakened. We have determinatives – in the correct sense of the word. Two of them have lived in the municipality for over 25 years. Helen Brandstorp, who is a doctor and director of the National Center for District Medicine, writes in the journal Dagens Medisin that relations create good medicine. She actually shows in her article to just Bindal, where the people know their doctors. Fear of not getting help, and alienation, is being built down. This reduces unnecessary use of medical services, antibiotics, painkillers, medical messages and cleansing. She concludes the article by saying that Bindal is almost the only municipality that does not have any recruitment problems. What about the ambulance service? It is today under the North of Health. When your kid's lying unconscious on the swimming floor, 37 km is long enough. Or when your son wakes up with enormous chest pain and has a heart attack – then 38 km is preferable to 7 miles. The representative Jensen is concerned that people will get married in their local environment. We're busy living and surviving. In any case, many of us trust that after the election we have a government that will help dissolve forced marriage. At the last municipal election Bindal Arbeiderparti opted for Bindal to be maintained as a municipality of its own. The working party was given a majority – 52.4 pst. by the votes cast. I am sure that the election result in Bindal in 94 days will give the clearest answer to what the people think about this forced use.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1355	This is a historic day for our country. About 100 municipalities have agreed to each other through a voluntary merger process, and a broad majority on Stortinget implements a regional reform where we reduce the number of county municipalities from 19 to 11. In addition, a moving task has been assigned to both municipalities and regions. It may be worth recalling that the municipal reform is being implemented in order to meet changing local authorities and to create strong municipalities that can meet the expectations and demands of the inhabitants of the country. There has been a lot of change in recent years and since 1960, and changes are only faster and faster. At today's big business management, 121 municipalities are merged into 47 new municipalities. 257 municipalities have agreed to continue as their own municipalities. There are only 10 cases where there are exceptions to the voluntary aggregation rule. With the decisions we make today, we want 354 municipalities in 2020. The conclusion is ready. This is a historic success both for the government and for the parties that have cooperated with the government. There is no shortage of pessimistic and critical performances from central red-green politicians from the Center Party and the Labour Party. Nevertheless, we have experienced that a great many local politicians from all parties have entered into these discussions in a positive and offensive way. It has been our local politicians from all parties who have been driving forces to produce sensible and forward-looking mergers in their municipality. That's what they're talking about. There have been some municipalities that have tried but have not been closed. We're going to give them credit. The starting point for the municipal reform has been the voluntary pooling of good local processes and deportation or community research. The results we are seeing today are good evidence that the local and local politicians have followed up on the work of the municipal reform in a good way. My home state, Sogn and Fjordane, is one of the states where most municipalities have followed up Storting's desire for larger and stronger municipalities. A total of 12 out of 26 municipalities in this county merge with one or more neighbouring municipalities. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate Gaul, Jölster, Naustdal, Förde, Eid, Selje, Flora, Vågsøy and my own municipality of residence, Hornindal, with decisions on aggregation. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate Balestrand, Leikanger and Sogndal, who have worked up to a good commitment agreement on mergers, even though they are being combined with coercion today. What they've done in the last few months to build a new, strong, regional municipality in Sogn is a great respect. When it comes to merging Flora and Vågsøy, Right has a different view than the majority in the committee. Right thinks it should be an overarching goal for Bremander to join the two others in order to create a full and strong coastal community in Sogn and Fjordane. It makes sense, therefore, to carry out the further distributions that the County has been given to carry out with Bremander, before one merges the other two. These payments will be completed in September, and the Ministry wants to present this summary to the State budget for 2018. In any case, the voluntary merger between Flora and Vågsøy would have been carried out at that time. I have boasted of the local politicians in my home country when it comes to working on the community reform, and I am happy to be able to do the same when it comes to regional reform. Although I think we can do a lot of good with two levels, I fully respect the decision that we should have about ten regions. Sogn and Fjordane, together with County Spokesman Jenny Følling at the head, have taken the lead in creating a strong western region consisting of all four Western states. This has not been closed, because More and Romesdal and Rogaland want to stand alone. The county councils of Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland have since negotiated and approved a well-balanced agreement that will affect both counties. On Friday, the joyful message came that the main seat of the new county office was added to Leikanger. Today, this voluntary merger is signed in Stortinget. In addition to the fact that historical decisions are now being taken on new municipalities and regions, extensive changes are being made to the tasks of both levels. It is also a very important part of this reform work. This will provide stronger governance at both levels, and as we get larger municipalities and larger municipalities, this will provide the basis for a comprehensive move of tasks in the future. The right-wing party government has with the decisions being made today, probably implemented the most extensive reforms in modern times for our country. It is made by a minority government in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left when it comes to regional reform, and with the Left when it comes to the community reform. I would like to congratulate both the new municipalities and the new county councils, the government and the cooperation parties, and not least the state council, Sanner, for the thorough and good work that has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1391	For us in the Progress Party, taking care of the citizens and their needs, demands and security is the most important thing. Unlike the Center Party, we put people in front of national romantic delusions, of which we have heard a part in the hall today. What matters is whether people become residents somewhere is how attractive it is there, and what kind of offers are available to the population. Modern people do not live in places with poor health, education and leisure, completely independent of the name of the municipality or the place where they are located. Although there may be as large, as complicated and as difficult cases in small places as in large cities, there are municipalities with only one and two employees in child protection. In addition to the fact that it is not possible for such small devices to solve the problems they are assigned, it is unacceptablely vulnerable. A medical report at the Children’s Protection Office may have tragic consequences for the children within that framework. It's like that for a number of services in smaller places. Preventing larger municipalities and units, despite all that we have of knowledge, empirically and research, is not putting the inhabitants ahead of systems. But it may not be so surprising when we see the concrete results of what the Center Party has achieved when they have power. If we look at the results and not just at the arguments, it is very clear that there was a significant increase in farm use when the Senterpartiet directed the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, rather than the Advance Party in Government. Several elementary schools were set up with the Central Party in government. The local economy was significantly worse with the Senterpartiet. The government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, has contributed to the best municipal economy in several decades, which is really something for Norwegian districts and for the people who live there. Where the Minister for Transport of the Central Party allowed the roads to lapse and the maintenance seat run to increase, there is now a record in road and infrastructure appropriations, and the maintenance seat run goes down. This is what decides for most people whether they want to stay in smaller places and in the districts of Norway or not, it does not make rhetoric about belonging to municipal names that none of those living in those municipalities have participated in adopting. Therefore, through concrete political decisions and appropriations, the Progress Party shows that we are taking peoples seriously in the districts, and we are the best party for the districts as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1402	I'm going to focus on the incomprehensible so-called regional reform – a strange and sad thing. Head of the Committee Njåstad basically dropped the cat out of the bag with his story. Here it is the Christian People's Party and the Left who have forced the Advance Party and the Right to maintain a level of government that the two government parties do not want. So the government parties – the Party of Advancement and the Right – are forcing the Christian People's Party and the Left to join in the coercion of states. It's a little surprising to me that the Christian People's Party has become a party of coercion. They say no at the municipal level, but they're fine at the county level. The representative Skelstad from the left stood here and strangled with pride over his involvement in the construction. We heard the reason for it all at the beginning of the debate. Head of Committee Njåstad was not committed to strengthening services and value creation in urban and rural areas. No, the bureaucratisation barons in the Progress Party and the Right now say they should have less bureaucracy. As the state bureaucracy grows into the sky, the administration of our county municipalities should be slimmed down. I heard the representative Njåstad say something about the fact that the political allowances also had to be reduced. I've been with quite a long time, I was elected to the local government at Gjøvik in 1979, and that's the first time in my political life I've heard a FrP talk that the costs of politicians must be reduced. One must have a microscope to see traces of enthusiasm for the regional reform by Njåstad. I had lived well without this regional level, but this is a compromise," said Njåstad. It's definitely a bad compromise, I say. It's bad political crafts and everything but some reform. It is primarily coercive and illogical, geographical divisions; it is a journey through the void in terms of new tasks, and it is centralisation. It's just the Left's representative, with his very special glasses, who can see that it flashes away in the corner a place with some kind of task. In addition, the four jobs are in up-down mode – first geographical breakdown and then new tasks. We first had to build the houses and then furnished them, said Left's representative. I think it makes sense first to figure out what to have in the houses, then to see what size is needed in the houses. But logic can't be any point competence in the left. The task portfolio must be the starting point for size and breakdown. The truth is that the two government parties will get rid of the regional level, which Njåstad actually said right. What credibility, then, do they have in transferring important social tasks and elected power to this level? None – something they have also demonstrated quite clearly. How they represent the county economy, also says a little about enthusiasm in that direction. The working party is not involved in this. We want to reverse it when we hopefully get into government. Heathmarks and alienations are good neighbors. The two counties, different activities, organisations and others cooperate well across the current state border. But in the process, both states have said no to aggregation and to the wrapping that the government has provided. In Hedmark and Uppland, the Right Party and the Advance Party are forced into marriage, while the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are part of the benevolent bridesmaid. I'll call it a little rude to do this right before the election. So, while the two government parties are falling into the polls of the two states that are to be coerced into my homelands, this is being done. Inland is larger than Denmark. I fear the dehulling of municipalities – that municipalities in peripheral zones will choose connections in other directions. I fear that this will weaken us and that democracy will lose. Therefore, it is so important that it is first and foremost the Right Party and the Advance Party that become the losers in the autumn’s elections. For many reasons, it is not only a large majority for the wish, but also a call for a change of government from the Hedmark and Uppland counties – which we want to pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1423	The most important issue in the debate on the local reform is whether it should be voluntary or not, which municipalities should be merged, and not least what the new municipality should be called. But when I think about community reform, I think of those who are the reason we started work. I think of the stroke patient, who after receiving emergency treatment at the hospital will enter a race where he or she is dependent on care and help in his or her own municipality for the rest of his or her life. I am thinking of the Rufraunter, who after several relapses has finally finished detoxification and is looking forward to a new start in his own municipality. I think of the young couple who chose to keep their unborn, multi-disabled child, and who are on their way home from the maternity ward to a life where they will deal with many different parts of the municipal services for many years to come. I'm also thinking about the midwife, as in 30 pst. The position in the municipality shall be that of pregnant women during pregnancy and after birth, who shall follow the guidelines of point and point, who shall ask about violence and intoxication and identify the family situation, which feels professionally alone, and which is burdened by their responsibilities. It is for these people that we are adopting a Community reform today. They're patients, they're residents, and they're employees in a municipality that's facing many challenges. Municipal health and care services shall provide users of all age groups with a variety of diagnostics, disabilities and conditions. Municipalities carry large parts of the welfare society on their shoulders. For many municipalities, it is a heavy one, because there are quite different demands for strong trade unions, for peak competence and for width than a few decades ago. If municipal services are to become good, they should help vulnerable children, they should help people with drug problems, they should help young people with mental health challenges and the elderly with dementia, they should be more and more active. These tasks have all municipalities today, regardless of their size. The law does not distinguish between large and small municipalities. Fortunately, all residents of Norway have the same rights regardless of their municipality. But are we still going to accept the huge variations in the offer given, or are we going to do something about it? Yesterday I met the man of a battered woman who told of a year-long fight for a training offer and rehabilitation to her wife. In other municipalities, everything is clear when the patient comes from a hospital: aids, physiotherapy, logoped. There are differences between Norwegian municipalities. Much is about small trade unions. It seems that someone thinks that the alternative to municipal reform is that everything can be as it is, but it won't. Without municipal reform, centralisation is strengthened. Differences in the quality of services will increase between municipalities, and when municipalities are unable to do the tasks well enough by themselves, there will be more state-level detailed management, more designation and more power for the 169 politicians who sit in this room than for the thousands of engaged local politicians in the whole country who know their region and their neighbourhood. The municipal services of the future are linked to the municipal structure of the future. It is not without reason that Minister Sanner launched the primary health message together with Minister of Health Höie in the spring of 2015. This was because the measures in the primary health notification, which will create a more comprehensive health and care service in the municipalities, require that we facilitate larger municipalities, which are able to provide the services required by the citizens. We do not adopt the municipal reform today because the Right will, or because the Workers' Party promised the same thing as us in 2013. We adopt it because vulnerability is great and the professional environment is small in too many municipalities. When 362 municipalities have two or fewer doctors in their institutions, when 374 municipalities have two or fewer physiotherapists in institutions, when 395 municipalities have two or fewer midwives for prevention, health and school health, then we do not meet the stroke patient, the pregnant or the fragile old with a strong, robust professional environment, and we do not give health professionals the opportunity to develop with other professionals. This tells us that tomorrow's welfare municipalities must be bigger. Fortunately, we have a government and cooperation parties and a majority who take this seriously. We who are citizens, who are patients, and who are related in Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1453	Today Stortinget deals with a very important matter. Community reform is important, and then you have to ask yourself the question: Who is it important for? Here in the hall, it might seem like you've lost your feet completely and not talking to your own people out there, where people actually live. That's what it's all about, it's the people it's about. It's about nursing homes, child protection, school, technical construction services, etc., which you work with every single day in Kommune-Norway because you can't recruit enough skilled labour – because it's too small a trade union environment. Those who work in the services say they're scared, because they don't feel competent and support enough to perform the service that's to be provided to the inhabitants every single day. I am myself from Westfold, and I am very proud that I am from Westfold. There we have – across municipal borders, like many other municipalities around the country – a number of intermunicipal cooperation bodies. There is no one – I dare say – who really has full control in these IKSs. You sit on the local government, and the central party here at Stortinget says you're busy with local democracy. It is also the Progress Party. That is why we are concerned that local democracy should apply in that local government. It is the municipality that should have that ownership, the municipality should have an overview. You don't have that today. It is very special when the Center Party and the Workers' Party come up with scareshoots that it is so bad to join municipalities. I am particularly pleased that I was present at Norway's first voluntary municipal association – of the municipalities of Våle and Ramne, which is today Re, initiated and implemented by two Central Party rapporteurs. Today, the same municipality is working with Tønsberg, still with the Senterparti rapporteur. I want to quote about the merged municipality of Sandefjord, which consists of Andebu, Stokke and Sandefjord. You could read in Sandefjords Blade in February 2015: ‘The miner of the trio is Andebu. There was the scepticism of marriage to begin with. – This has been a long political path to go for me. I felt that it began as a coercion, went on to become a common sense sect, but now I am just up above my ears in love, said Andebus, rapporteur Bjarne Sommerstad. [[Sp]] It's gonna be weird to hear the Center Party scare here. Why did the Center Party do this in Andebu? Why did they do this in the municipalities of Våle and Ramne, which are now Re? Why is Re doing it now, with the Center Party? Well, that's because they're busy with their inhabitants, just as the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left are too – because it's up to its inhabitants you have to be responsible every single day. I hope – in respect of all those who have taken this job, that they have reached a cross-political agreement, across all parties in Vestfold – that the job that is now being done is wrong. Here you've gone out and carved – across all the party lines – that this is going to be good, this is going to be fun, we should have done this a long time ago. And then you stand here and you scare and talk it down. Perhaps it is time for the Battle of the Centre Party to travel into the districts, into the municipalities where people live, where their own politicians sit. The story you tell from this pulpit, I don't remember in, at least not where I live, or the politicians there. It should be a joyous day for the inhabitants – and you refer to coercion and not coercion and say that the people don't want to. I, like many of the representatives, read the results of many referendums. They had elections – they had met and were supposed to vote – down to 16-17 pst. Many might have gotten up to 20-30 pst. What are you going to use it for -- to say no, the people wouldn't, because they said no, 60 pst. of them said no? People don't care. People care about good services where they live. Today, the boundaries are more in the way than they are in the interest. The centralisation ghost, with which the Central Party joins, is the greatest if you say no to municipal associations, because you actually build up intercommunal services in neighbouring municipalities. That's when it's centralization and not power to democracy. So no, the Center Party: Travel home, talk to their own. My name is on the rapporteurs in Vestfold. Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1479	The result of the municipal reform and regional reform was a story of changing borders and moving on to a very few – apparently randomly chosen – tasks, and very little about how government governance should be reduced, local democracy strengthened and services improved. It is important to bear in mind the government's words that this should be a democratic reform in which decision-making powers should also be moved closer to the citizens. This became as good as nothing of it. The government asked the government to strengthen the elected regional level — but the task transfers do not go from state to municipalities and county municipalities, but from county municipalities to municipalities. The government overlooked the broad majority's expectation of a serious treatment of the regional level, which we now know as the county municipalities. I would particularly like to refer to the county councils as central and bringing together actors in the field of culture. Today, the state is responsible for national public transport in the form of air services and national rail services. In addition, the State is responsible for parts of the regional public transport service, such as local trains and health transport. Municipalities are responsible for public transport by bus and boat, school transport and TT transport. This requires significant coordination, which is best done in a regional context. In today’s system, there is a need for even better coordination between the different regional collective services. Then the answer is not to divide this responsibility even more and to give the city councils, which is the center of large surrounding areas, the responsibility for something and the regions the responsibility for what remains. The seamless, good transport supply is not achieved by breaking down the responsibility further and creating new borders. The aim of the Workers' Party is therefore, contrary to the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, to erase the borders and provide passengers with the simplest and best possible offer. There is a need to see the operation and investment of the transport system in the context of, not least, the role of counties in regional development. It involves a comprehensive view of transport for the forward-looking development of each state and region and part of the country. Population growth, especially in the larger cities, creates challenges that can only be solved by increasing public transport, corridors and bicycles and closer urban and country coordination. The development of land use, public transport and other transport systems are essential in order to achieve social objectives in other sectors. This applies, inter alia, to: the objective of transporting public transport, bicycles and corridors in urban areas, which in turn gives us more climate-friendly and attractive cities. And it should be possible to live good lives even outside the big cities. The elected regions are and should remain central and cohesive social actors. Almost 80 pst. by the public road network is built, owned and operated by the counties. The counties are major transport operators responsible for road, ferries and public transport. The government, with its friends, will give city councils responsibility for public transport. The collective offer must be regional and connect town and country. That's what gives the good housing and labour market regions. It is a bad idea to split this responsibility and create new and more borders. The Workers' Party will also ensure the possibilities of county municipalities as a transport authority and enable them to own and operate the county road network, county ferries and fast boat connections – and not least provide a forward-looking and climate-friendly collective offer across our long-term country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1492	In North Norway, we're pretty familiar with distance from power. We are all familiar with the lack of Nordic representatives when our djerve people elected met at Eidsvoll in 1814. It took some time for emissaries to get local representatives to go inland and democratically secure their emissaries to Eidsvoll. It's part of the story that when we first got together to pick these guys and the whole thing really was over nationally, yeah, we just as well chose to send big guys. At least we did this first, and then you could say a little bit cheerfully that then it wasn't so bad that it wasn't good for anything. My point, though, is that we've been used to climbing high mountains for a long time, crossing deep fjords and calm, climbing, walking and traveling far to reach, and we're really still doing it. However, there is little doubt that both municipal maps and regions have been drawn as we row – and not after today’s travel modes and not least the technological developments we have seen. It is therefore high time that we now take action on how we organize ourselves, and not least on how we use this tearing development in technology – and travel modes – to decentralize power, to ensure that we are ready to promise well-being even more to ourselves, and not least to our kids or to the many who, for different reasons, need help from society when they or their families do not stretch to. And there should be a thinker that there is no child protection in Loppa, outside Alta, when one employee is on vacation, sick or, for that matter, taking shelter after working a little too much for another period of the year. It should also be a thought that the children of the Berg municipality of Senja today do not have access to the common system Feide, so that they cannot log in to computer tools that can provide better and more educational opportunities in the classroom, simply because the municipality is holding Excel sheets on the student list and thus does not have the capacity to work with ICT systems in their schools. I can also mention the many municipalities in Mid-Throms that go together to ensure access to fixed coverage throughout the year, and the municipalities in Nord-Troms that go together to ensure a better service in the field of child protection, after the famous case in Kvännangen, which showed how the competence sometimes becomes inadequate in small municipalities. If we look at the technical services, we see that cooperation is even more extensive. Power is being moved out of the local government and into the boardrooms, responsibility is being confused and democracy is weakening, and some tasks are not being solved at all. It's scary. Today we write history. 428 municipalities become 354, and we have a historically successful municipal reform. Thank you so much for that! We now have many examples of municipalities that are getting bigger and stronger to meet the future and the requirements for better welfare services, and these municipalities will attract both residents and businesses, I am absolutely convinced of that. Just look at the new municipality of Senja, which immediately sees the light of day, an example of a seamat giant in flowering in the part of the country, but not least in Norway. And there are a number of other examples. Nevertheless, I wish we had come further also in my part of the country, and I therefore welcome the fact that the work is now continuing. Because when several people see the possibilities that open up, I hope that several municipalities will follow. Therefore, in the time to come, it is hoped that those who are perceived to be responsible parties may rather start listening to the mountain-wet rules and turning around in time. For some issues, it should be greater than party polemics. Some questions require more long-termity than populist short-termity, and management characteristics rather than fluctuations and passive and retrospective policies. If you want to look back, you can always remind someone in this room of what you've said before. In the area of regional reform, for example, after the hospital reform in 2000, the tasks and future of the municipality have been discussed. And I would like to remind you that the red-green regional reform, which, incidentally, became a large belly pad, started with an assessment all the way down to five and seven regions. Then a municipal minister from the Senterpartiet and a prime minister from the Workers' Party was led. It was with the ambitions to move power out of the capital, and the beautiful words of more power and strengthened democracy almost possible became just a homage. It may then be good to remind the assembly that what is now being transferred to the new regional level of tasks is helping to strengthen this level, more than we have seen for a long time. Major regions allow for better organisation of a regional state in the next round and contribute further to strengthening democratic interaction throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1511	The community reform is a success, and it is going to be an even greater success in the future, no matter what the representatives of the Central Party and the Labour Party are freaking out about here today. For the first time since the presidential law of 1837, we are going back to less than 400 municipalities. In 1837, 392 municipalities were established as chairmanship districts. Until 1930, the number of municipalities increased to nearly 750 before finally having control of the growth of red tape and office. Now we are taking an even greater hold on this – both the national parliament and the citizens of the municipalities, who have shown zeal and interest in the process. However, if the Labour Party had listened to its own rapporteurs, we could have even fewer municipalities, perhaps 100 fewer. The Labour Party puts the political game ahead of taking part in important political processes to build and strengthen Norway locally. It's serious. What was once the eagle of Norwegian politics has decimated itself to become a kind of trick that opens the hatch at regular intervals to tell what is wrong, but not what the solution is. It has been the review tone in recent years, and in particular in this case. On the same day as the Workers' Party rapporteurs told the evening post that they wanted help from their own leaders in the work on the municipal reform, Labour Party leader Jonas Gahr Støre said that the Workers' Party would reverse the municipal reform that the rapporteurs had worked hard on lately. Municipal reform is a long way from proving that the local population and local politicians are taking responsibility for Norway’s progress in the right direction. Unfortunately, we now see a Workers' Party leadership taking populist positions and trying to distance ourselves in a matter where we agreed a little while ago. When the Workers' Party talks about populism, you have to listen. Because on its own, you know others. The municipal reform is now taking shape, and with more than 90 voluntary mergers, the municipal map will look different in 2020. This is a reform initiated by the municipalities themselves, where rapporteurs, municipal council members and citizens have taken the challenges of the municipal structure seriously. The very few know, and which has so far been a small part of the public debate, is that 67 Workers' Party-led municipalities have taken positive decisions on mergers. This shows that in the grassroots part of the Workers' Party, too, it is a desire for the community reform. But you can quickly get the impression of something else if you hear the speeches from the Workers' Party representatives here today. Let one thing be quite clear in this matter: a reversal of the municipal reform is just another form of coercion – where you should coercive municipalities that have voluntarily wanted to create something better with their neighbours, and where it has been extremely necessary to get drag help from Stortinget to get it to. If the Workers' Party is serious in its proposal to reverse, it should also apply to the municipalities that were subjected to massive coercion in the 1960s. The disclaimer and the blatant rhetoric of the Workers' Party in the reform work testify to a desperate electoral strategy that went wrong. But it's not too late to turn around. The working party may prove to be the responsible party it once was and may recognise the need for the reform. I am not saying that for Gahr Støre, Giske, Tajik and the rest of the party pomps to lose credibility, but for all the rapporteurs out there to receive the support they need in the work that remains. The implementation of the municipal reform is the result of many years of being sought by municipal politicians and trade unionists, and this is therefore not a government leadership. The municipal reform is a process that starts from below and was ordered by local politicians from the Progress Party, Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party at the national meeting of the respective parties. Much has changed since the last municipal merger in the 1960s, for example. population patterns, communication opportunities, business structure, welfare needs, expectations for the municipality, the need for competence and, above all, digitisation. In the past, people had to meet up at the town hall to apply for a nursery, to get a building permit for their garage and to order a vaccination session. That's not the way the world is anymore, and at least that's not the way the world is in Kommune-Norway. The municipal reform is being implemented to meet the changed conditions and to create strong municipalities that can meet tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1536	Today, this room is going to outrun local democracy. You can say that you do that both in terms of time and frequency, but rarely does it have as many consequences as this case has too many. Municipalities coercion, counties merge, and it doesn't matter what you want. As an example of how this turns out, we see that today the majority – if it holds – want the Nordic bindings to be both coerced with another municipality and forced to move to a new state without being a municipality – which the minister was very concerned about – that lies between other municipalities. At least that's not the argument. Then I hear – and I have heard it from several – that both the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party believe that the reform has been a success. I think it's good early to conclude with it. The last post by the representative Bjørnstad is actually proof of that. For what did he stand here and say? Well, at first he criticized the Workers' Party and claimed that we were driving populism, that we have left the term 'earn', and what he did in the next breath was boasting of the municipal politicians and rapporteurs of the Workers' Party. It's not so nice that he refers to it. It is true that, in relation to the Progress Party, there are many Labour Party rapporteurs out in the Municipality of Norway and in the regions. There aren't so many of them from the Progress Party, and the question is, how many more are there when you carry on a populist policy and argument. It is as our spokesman Helga Pedersen said, that the Workers' Party has taken responsibility. When the minister asked them to do the job, they did the job. They've spent a lot of time, they've spent a lot of resources, which could probably have been spent on other things, to see if you could do anything with the municipal boundaries. In half of these municipalities, the Workers' Party rules. Saying something else is a solid record bomb. The working party has been and is clear that it is the volunteer line that applies. Trying to put it into doubt can only be done, but there's no doubt that it's the one that's at stake, as we've said in the whole process, and no one has to be surprised that we're on it today. No, this whole reform is characterized by the fact that we have a government that is actually at three levels. It is then more important to have fewer regions than to have operational regions. It's just to look at the proposal that was here that it was actually considered to merge half the country and make one region of North Norway. It was there in the first place. Fortunately, it's not like that, even though parts are coerced together. If we look at the problems, maybe you should have an even greater focus on what these regions are going to do. But what do you do? Well, that's when you get rid of government-related, important tasks and suggest moving them out into the regions. Just two examples: today, the state is taking responsibility for the fishing ports and financing them. We know that, that it could be funding from $50 million and up to several hundred million dollars. This is now going to be transferred to the regions, without the money coming along. What kind of opportunity does a region have to prioritize these large amounts against other considerations? The same thing is said about the FOT route. And notice, they're taking down the amount of the FOT route and saying that in the next round, the regions are going to take responsibility for this. They do the same with the fishing ports. In the transport plan we are going to deal with in a little over a week, there are almost no port measures within the first six-year period. They're inside from 2024 to 2029. And what's happened before we get to 2024? Yes, then they have placed responsibility with the regions, and the money has not followed. This is not a day of joy. There are many who are disappointed today that you haven't been on the volunteer line. I'm looking forward to the government change, and we're going to clean it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1556	We are in port – it was the words of the then County of Erling Lae when he had his last day at work as County of Vestfold and handed over the report on the municipal merger process to the Vestfold counties. When we hear the New Year's Eve bells on 1 January 2020, 14 municipalities in Westfold have become 6. There are 23,000 inhabitants at the very least, and there are 40,000 inhabitants on average in the municipality. What makes things so good in Westfold? Is Westfold so very different? Has the process been simple? Or could there be something to pick up from what has happened? Let's take a look at the Westfold first. What happens is that one municipality swaps the county. One municipality has had a huge border adjustment, over 2,500 people are moving. Several municipalities have small border adjustments. Five of the municipalities were run by the Labour Party rapporteur. Two were run by the Central Party rapporteur. Six were run by the Right-Rapporteur. One municipality ends up doing nothing. Two municipalities have had a referendum. Several municipalities have conducted several community surveys. Some municipalities change their names. Some municipalities keep their name. Some municipalities exchange municipal weapons. Some municipalities keep their municipal weapons. Were there equal municipalities initially? In the area, the largest municipality was 14 times the smallest. In the population, one municipality was 18 times the smallest. That's how you've done it. When we hear this description of reality, it's that Westfold is relatively similar to the rest of Norway. Why do you have success? Well, you've done it because you've put the best people at first -- better services, more local democracy, less bureaucracy. Let's talk cheek eggs. We're strengthening the municipalities. We're increasing local self-government, and we're laying the foundation that as many problems as possible can be solved near you, tailored to your needs. Several tasks can be taken over by municipalities. The reform gives local communities more opportunities and more responsibilities. It has been over 50 years since the previous municipal reform, and the municipalities have been given much more responsibility and many more tasks since then. We're talking about the 1960s. State detail management has increased. In recent years, municipalities have moved more and more tasks into inter-municipal cooperation, and this weakens local self-government. We can't just sit and watch that. We have come a long way in the reform of the local authorities, but we are far from the goal. If we are to prevent the confusion of well-being, we are to prevent the confusion of local democracy, we must also change the municipal boundaries in the future – for the benefit of the citizens, that is, for you and for me. Solid municipalities with better capacity and competence provide us with good and equivalent services throughout Norway. The wider professional environment provides a more stable working environment and a wider range of competences, especially in small and specialised services such as: child protection. If you only need one argument for more solid municipalities, that's the argument for child protection. Larger municipalities will have a larger resource base and will have a more varied population and economic composition, and sustainable municipalities will be able to facilitate more efficient use of resources. Larger and more solid municipalities can have more tasks. It gives increased power, increasing authority to local authorities, increasing local self-government. It reduces the need for inter-municipal solutions and reduces the need for state detail management – greater freedom to adapt the welfare provision to your and my needs. This is a necessary reform that fights against centralisation and strengthens democracy. Larvik and Lardal will be true. Stecke, Andebu and Sandefjord are already on the wheat-bread days. Re and Tønsberg are going to be true. Nut Island and Tjøme become the father. Hoff, Holmestrand and Sande become a solid municipality north of the county, and Svelvik joins the Drammen. It's tempting to say, look to Vestfold. In conclusion, I must also take a little tour of the regional reform. We had a certain expectation in Westfold, after being so good at the municipal reform, that we would get a small premium. It wasn't exactly like that. But we look forward to working with Telemark in a region. Henrik Ibsen was born in Telemark, our new region. Among other things, he wrote Terje Vigen, and he did not go as well as he knew when he messed over Skagerrak and lost his whole life base. But he "walked one day, yes she can two, and then he shook the grief off." And that's what we're going to do. We're going to develop an exciting region together with Telemark. I'll round it all off with a quote from Stephen Stills, an American folklore. I won't sing – take it easy. He sang about 50 years ago, when the previous municipal reform took place: “If you can’t be with the one you love, love the one you’re with.” Congratulations on the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1575	The proposals of the Right and the Progressive Party on regional reform for cultural life are provocative. There were not many hours around Easter times from the suggestions, until the reactions came. – This rages the infrastructure, the government proposes to rage something that it has taken 30-40 years to build up,” said Tove Bratten, head of the Dance and Theatre Centre of the Class Battle. The Right Party and the Progressive Party propose to move 49 cultural institutions and free groups to the state from 2018. Several of these institutions and actors have impact fields far beyond the boundaries of the county, at national or international level, for example: Stella Polaris in Westfold and Grenland Fritheater in Porsgrund. One of the most important tasks for us elected people here at Stortinget is to maintain infrastructure and the ability to engage in professional artistic activities throughout the country. The Working Party is clear that it is not possible to understand the criteria for which actors have been selected by the Ministry of Culture. The Minister for Culture has also announced that a new cultural message will be drawn up. However, long before it is finished, a regional communication with major implications is presented, and without a red thread or in dialogue with the institutions concerned. Norwegian theatre and orchestral association, NTO, has also reacted strongly to the government's reforms in the field of culture. NTO leader Morten Gälten has told the NRK that he believes the proposal has been rushed and the reason – again – is incomprehensible. More fears, of course, that the institutions will be in a worse economic situation. When the counties need to prioritise many different tasks, it is easy to understand that culture can become one of the fields at the back of the queue. It is easy to see that the proposal to propose 49 cultural institutions moved to the state level is the Ministry of Culture's delivery to the government's regional reform. An overall assessment of whether this will benefit cultural institutions has not been carried out but will be carried out. There is no justification for why or what has been used for the selection of the 49 institutions. This, combined with the notification of the entire cultural field, means that the Workers' Party does not support the government's proposal. The decision-making basis for the major change has simply not been adequately elucidated. That's why we support the 49 institutions that listen, individually and collectively, have announced that this is a change that is not the best thing for the cultural life of the country, neither for them on stage nor for them in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1594	It has been said several times in this debate that this is a brand day for the national governance system, and that is. When 426 municipalities now decrease to 354, it's a historic day. The government does not implement the reform to change Norway, but Norway has changed since the adoption of the Schei Committee’s municipal reform. The local boats and the local boat routes with which the Schei Committee travelled as they traveled through Norway and were to draw the new Norway map are far removed. The pattern of housing has changed, new areas of employment and housing are interwoven in a completely different way, but most of all the municipal responsibility for services is far, far larger and more complex than it was in the 1960s. Let me give you an example: the community health service. It was governed by health law, and the municipality was responsible for old people's homes, preferably in cooperation with non-profit institutions serving households. Looking at the legislation today, you can see the extensive and demanding tasks the municipalities are responsible for. Let me say that: it is a demanding pedagogical challenge to explain the need to take action today to meet a future need in society. But that's precisely the Big One's task, based on the knowledge and information that the Big One has. The alternative to change is standstill and a form of degeneration. Let me give you an example: if we don't do anything about today's municipal structure and base the population projection of the Central Bureau of Statistics, in 2040 we will have 110 municipalities there 30 pst. the population is over 67 years of age. There will be quite strange municipalities, where very many will need care from the municipality, and very many have to work in the older sector, and these municipalities will have very poor tax bases. That's not how a big one can sit and watch and let go. The size has decided that the same welfare services are required of the same quality, no matter where you live in the Kingdom. Then the natural consequence is that the Storting actually enables the municipalities to provide these services. The working party has winged, the centre part has been the brake block in this. From the ageing period to the ageing period, the Labour Party has programmed that something needs to be done about the municipal structure of the country. It has also been programmed in the current period, but in 2015, two years after the programme was adopted, it was a decree, a press release from the Workers' Party, to read in the Evening Post, communicated by Helga Pedersen. Now you should listen to the referendums, no matter how low it had been in them, and the Stortinget should not be able to intervene. I say interveners, because you use the coercive term from this pulpit. It sounds like the municipalities are being attacked by the country's Supreme Democratic Assembly. The size has a responsibility to enable the municipalities to carry out their tasks. So Helga Pedersen said that what was written in 2013 had to be understood in the light of the time it was written in. I have to say that the times change quickly in the Workers' Party – no, it's not the times that change, it's the Workers' Party that turns the jacket after the wind. There are in particular two reasons for changing the municipal structure. One is to enable municipalities to provide the services they are to provide, and the other is the role of municipalities as a community developer. In my county, from which I am elected, Akershus, there are 22 municipalities that operate land planning as if the neighbouring municipality did not exist. There is enormous pressure on the cultivated land, and we have analyses that show that if the municipalities pursue their own municipal plans, it will be built down three times as much cultivated land as if you were pursuing a county plan. Then you might ask, ‘ Why don’t you pursue the county plan? ’ No, because the planning and regulatory authority is located in the municipalities and is absolutely fundamental in the local self-government. There are two strategies: a red-green one, which is to preserve today's municipal structure, which over time will give a weathering and will not enable the municipalities to deliver their tasks, or the strategy that the government is adopting today, to change to preserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1607	The goal of the regional reform government has been a stronger regionally elected level that takes a clearer responsibility for social development, that the tasks that will be transferred will reinforce the need for larger and more robust professional environments. The strange thing is that this obviously does not apply to dental health. Today’s Norwegian dental model has produced good results in terms of better dental health in the population, increased focus on prevention, a well-decentralised supply and strengthening of research and competence. The dental service is one of the services the population is most satisfied with. Success is based on competent dental management, large enough professional units, a high level of competence and extensive experience, providing equivalent dental services in cities and countries. Today's organisation also provides good interaction with the municipal health service. Of the 130 hearings – the exposure has been strong in this area – only 20 municipalities were in favour of taking over the responsibility for dental health. All disciplines, such as the Dental Association, the Dental Association, the Medical Association, the Health Directorate, the Odontological Faculty in Oslo and heavy organisations such as the KS, the Trade Union, the Academics and the Parats, do not recommend a transfer of dental health to the municipalities. The Labour Party considers that it is alarming that the government is still choosing to propose such a transfer, which can neither rely on heavy professional or organisational arguments nor offer a better offer to those who need a professionally strong public dental offer, i.e. children and young people, the elderly, people under public care and the most vulnerable patients. The Labour Party is engaged in a good division of tasks between the state, the regionally elected level and the municipalities that ensure the best possible services for the population. The current successful dental model was introduced in 1984. The aim of the conversion was better management and coordination of resources. Prior to 1984, dental services had been characterised by small, vulnerable, single-person clinics with little or no professional environment, major municipal differences, as well as a demanding recruitment situation. The conversion was evaluated by the Bondevik government in 2005 and described as very successful. The evaluation showed that the public dental service had become more accessible, several received a good offer, it became easier to recruit, the professionalism was strengthened, and the service became more cost-effective. The Labour Party believes that the government's proposal will take us back to what was the starting point in 1984, i.e. a cost-effective recommunisation without professional arguments to improve public dental provision for the population. These are proposals that undermine the confidence of politicians. The process becomes even less understandable when the Christian People's Party and the Left in the last hour chose to support the government parties in proposing a trial scheme for up to 15 voluntary municipalities and postponing the transfer to 2023. In addition, they split the dental environment by legislating that dental nurses — one part of the important health prostheses — should belong to the municipalities and that the specialist dental provision should also be transferred to the municipalities. Dental health is an important part of health. The Labour Party considers it irresponsible to carry out such a major health reform on such a weak professional basis and such a random and little systematic process. This does not give the predictability that will further develop the dental offer. It does not ensure equivalent dental provision for the whole population, but will fragment both the services and the professional environment and weaken the dental provision. The working party sees no need to change a scheme that has proven that it is working. There are no professional or organisational arguments to improve dental health. Therefore, we do not support the proposed changes that result in the transfer of responsibility for dental care to the municipalities. The Labour Party believes that a regionally elected level is far better equipped to take responsibility for dental care in the future than municipalities with wide variations in population and resource base. The Workers' Party will further develop the public dental service under county ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1632	Community reform is a success. When more than 150 municipalities, representing more than two thirds of the population of Norway, have a desire to merge, we see that the municipal reform is desired locally. Where the Workers' Party has winged and the Center Party has slowed down, the government delivers a municipal reform with the biggest change in the municipal structure of over 50 years. And if you really think about how much society has changed in this period, it's easy to understand that our service needs as citizens around the country's small and large municipalities have also changed radically. Today, we are going to adopt a new structure, which is to be forward-looking, and which can serve our citizens not only in the next few years, but also in the longer term. Here's some of the nucleus. If we are to strengthen well-being, we must renew ourselves. This is why it is important to continue the reform of the municipality. As our good rapporteur in the municipality of Lindesne, Janne Fardal Kristoffersen, often says, we should be there for the inhabitants, and most of all for those who need it most. A larger municipality than ours will provide better services. We can operate more efficiently, and we get a bigger and better trade union environment. It will again give the weakest a better offer. Today we see that common housing and labour markets across old municipalities almost grow together. Intercommunal companies a lot shift decision-making power and challenge local democracy. At the same time, there is a virtue of the need to solve the problems, because it is actually so that some development and innovation tasks are easier to achieve in a larger unit because it gives room to have employees and professional environments dedicated to the tasks. Today, I am particularly pleased that we are removing the border between East and West Agder. We have had many rounds of aggregation and years of discussions about this. This time it takes place voluntarily through majority decisions in both counties. It's a pleasure. A larger and stronger county or region will increase the growth power of the south. Cooperation on Agder has been a long way, but now it's becoming simpler and more efficient decision-making processes. The provision of services becomes independent of the county border, especially students in secondary school have experienced it as an obstacle to good, natural choice of school. The municipal structure process initiated good processes in many Agder municipalities and had a majority in many negotiating committees and local authorities. Referendums put an end to aggregation in several places. At the same time, we saw that many of those who are closest to the challenges have been in favour. Today, it is the Storting that must take a holistic approach, which must be forward-looking. In West Agder it is proposed that eight municipalities be merged – Lwagal and Audnedal; Lindesnes, Marnardal and Mandal; Kristiansand, Søgne and Songdalen. I think it can form the basis for an exciting future for us. The South, with the new Agder region, also needs a driving force in the region. I believe that new Kristiansand can be a good thing for the country. With urban funds already from 2018, the economy is strengthened. And I think wise rapporteurs and municipal politicians will manage this well for the benefit of the citizens of the whole of the new municipality. Our residents do not relate to administrative boundaries in everyday life. We live, work and use cultural and leisure opportunities across municipal borders. Today's Kristiansand, my hometown, is the result of a forced merger in 1965. There is no one who today wants to return to the four municipalities we had before the merger. In Søgne, Songdalen and Kristiansand, trade and daily activities go across and across the municipal borders, but our identity to Randesund, Vågsbygd, Langenes or Nodeland is of course to be retained. There has been much said about coercion in these processes. I think the premises have been clear. And as it was in an article on the Web newspaper a few days ago: ‘The winners of the municipal reform are the inhabitants. Although many local patriots fight for the name and the municipality centre, there is reason to be sober: no community is closed because the municipality is getting bigger and stronger — rather the opposite.’ Jan Tore Sanner deserves tribute for having been in a process where the Workers' Party has failed along the way and the Central Party's regrets and complaints have been heard. It says respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1656	The municipality in which I live is double affected by the decisions today. Ashes must be merged with the Smoke and Hurum – a well and sensible locally anchored decision, for the benefit of everyone. We will be Norway's fifth largest municipality, and locally, the atmosphere for this merger is good. That's good, and the Labour Party is going to vote for it. Even I'll do it with joy. But in view of becoming a Viking, by becoming a part of the Viking, then completely different feelings come true. For the Akershus municipality of Asker will now end up in the Viken region, a freak of a region, with 1.2 million inhabitants in a circle around Oslo. Several voters have asked me how this has happened, and who really has. I don't know. A very bad idea is that in any case, because it is not possible to find any professional reason. These three counties do not have a common housing and labour market. In that case, Oslo had to be present, and it is one of the few local councillors Jan Tore Sanner and his fighters in the Municipal and Administrative Committee have left completely alone – uncertain for what reason. It's not rational. There is no common regional identity, I can sign it, which has half the relatives from Buskerud, has grown up in Eastfold and now has lived in Akershus for 18 years. This has no popular anchoring. 62 pst. by the voters of Akershus are against this construction, under 20 pst. supports it. The vast majority of local politicians are opposed. The county council in Akershus and Eastfold is opposed. Also Buskerud is against, finally. So most municipalities are opposed. I have faith in using reason when you're going to organize society. I am a strong supporter of the principle of subsidiarity. Decisions shall be taken as low as possible at an effective level. That is why we have primary municipalities, we have counties at regional level, we have national states, of course, and we have the EU – for us EEA. Discussions about the level at which the problems should lie, we have to include regular intervals. They are sensitive, in particular on community mergers and binding international cooperation such as the EU. Some people are opposed to these levels. The Progress Party and the Right are against the States, the Centre Party and the SV are against the EU. But for that reason, you do not have to stop using common sense when designing policies at these levels. Unfortunately, that's exactly what the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party do. Reason is on vacation, and many here stick their heads in the sand, bound by a so-called agreement. Agreements are made in this house across and across, and that's good, we're in our full right. But in some areas, it's wise to have broad agreements. And, fortunately, it is a tradition for major reforms such as taxes, pensions and municipal borders to be guaranteed broad anchoring, because they must survive a shifting majority. In this case, the parties of government, the Left and the Christian People's Party fail. It is disappointing, in particular that the Right has almost abdicated in the matter of regional reform, and that the resistance to the existence of the states is used as an excuse for not taking responsibility. Larger states are in themselves no stupid thought, and there are many with me in my party who have been followers of it for a long time. But then the boundaries should be reasonable and have good local anchoring. That's not the situation with respect to the Week. Had it even been the case that the region had been given new tasks of a certain size, this is not the case either — as has been confirmed by disappointed state politicians who have been promised gold and green forests for a long time. And when the representative André N. Skelstad claims that now the states will have more and more tasks than ever, yes, it's wrong. The counties had the hospitals, one of the really big tasks in our society. They are now the responsibility of the state. They are not proposed to be transferred now either. Unfortunately, there is something ‘muffled’ about the post of the representative of Skkelstad, who has tried to explain this, if not otherwise. He claimed in his statement that now the county councils are going to make their own decisions and get real power. In my county, there would be great satisfaction if Akershu County got the power to decide for itself what kind of battle it should be. It's going to end on top-and-down decisions, it was said. What's happening today? I have rarely seen a clearer decision from above and down than this. At the same time, the representative, Mr Skkelstad, is proud that 19 representatives are given a regional reform. In other words, the left and the other do not assume responsibility for the stability of the basic organisation of society. Instead, the majority pushes through a solution that is unsustainable and that will hardly survive for long. The Christian People's Party is voting against its own locality, and that is also surprising. And the left's shroud triumphs over something he calls a masterpiece. A masterpiece is made as known by candidates to take master's letters. When experts in regionalisation, e.g. researchers in the field, assess the Viking, they call it comical. The conclusion is easy to draw: the so-called masterpiece of the government parties, the Left and Christian People's Party gets rid of sensor. I will end by referring from the State Council of Sanner's posts earlier here in the Chamber, but a little with the opposite sign – in my sense. He claimed that it is a great responsibility to want to change what is now adopted, if there is a change of government. I would like to claim that there is an even greater responsibility on today's large number, which forces through something for which there is no good reason, and for which there is absolutely no local anchoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1677	First of all, I must be allowed to comment on the representative Juvik, who claimed that the fishing ports are now to be transferred to the regions without the money coming along. It is not a principle underlying that transfer. The underlying principle is that regions will in fact be given responsibility for an important industrial development task with which it will also follow the money. It is possible that the representative Juvik has experience from the previous government period when he in a way sketches it the solution without money, but our solution is at least with money. This is a historic day. For the first time in over 50 years, a major municipal reform is being carried out, a reform that results in today's decisions going from 426 to 354 municipalities in Norway. At the same time, we know that several municipalities have ongoing processes, and that there is a great probability that more people will choose to merge. There is a large majority in this Chamber who want community mergers, because it is important and necessary. Therefore, I had expected the country's largest opposition party to have chosen a more constructive approach to the process, but in this reform, the Workers' Party has acted as a brake block and stood side by side with the Center Party and talked about reversal rather than seeing the possibilities and contributing to good solutions. I don't understand the point of talking down a reform that so many, both Labour Party and Central Party politicians in the municipalities, obviously see a need. Municipal reform is a voluntary reform, and there is reason to commend all local politicians who have taken responsibility in their municipalities and set up good processes. This is a cross-political commendation, for many rapporteurs and local politicians from all parties have contributed constructively. Much has changed since the 1960s and the previous major reform. The municipalities have had many new and big tasks. The business structure has changed, the infrastructure has improved, we are communicating in new ways, and new technology is changing our daily lives faster and faster. It gives us many new opportunities, and the municipalities have become the main provider of welfare services to the inhabitants. But that also gives us some challenges. There might be reason to ask the question: would we have organized Kommune-Norway in the same way as in the 1960s if we had known what we know today? Hardly – and then it might be time to make some changes. I'll start with my own county, More and Romesdal. It goes from 36 municipalities to 27. Especially in the areas in and around Ålesund and Molde, there is a lot of positive happening, and we get stronger regional municipalities. I have to admit that I would like to see even more people who chose to join forces, but this is a very good start. I am convinced that more people will get into the wake of these mergers, simply because both local and local politicians will see that it is necessary to ensure good quality and a wide range of services. I come from a small municipality myself. There is a municipality with more than 2000 inhabitants, with an active business life, and it is an integral part of the housing and labour market in and around Molde as a regional centre. The municipality, together with the Nesset, has chosen to join Molde. In Midsund we already see a positive effect of the merger with Molde, before the decision has been taken in Stortinget, and before the formal merger has been completed. The process is successful, and necessary and long-term investments in school and service buildings are now possible. We can do that because we're part of a larger community, because vulnerability is getting smaller, and because we can take advantage of the economic benefits of the merger to develop the municipality. Thus, the action space of the municipal reform is used to strengthen the service provision where people live, which is in stark contrast to the rhetoric of the Centre Party. That's the opposite of centralization. Midsund, in line with other municipalities, has based a large part of its service production on inter-municipal cooperation, quite a few in the number, and that is because there are many tasks that a small municipality can do better in a larger community than alone. Take, for example: child protection, where Midsund established cooperation with Molde some years ago, precisely to ensure stable and good professional competence. When the intermunicipal arrangements become many enough, it is time to reorganize this in one municipality. Some would also argue that local democracy is weakened in the reform of the community. I do not agree with that at all. A youth representative basically said it very well: In a larger municipality, I can get involved and decide, not only where I live, but also where I spend much of my time. That's a good input into the democracy discussion. This is a big day. This is just the beginning, but a very good beginning. I'm looking forward to the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1713	Much has already been said in this case, but as a representative of the Workers' Party and Buskerud I still feel a need to link some comments on why we are today going to vote no to beat the three counties Buskerud, Akershus and Østfold together into a new and larger region called Viken. It was not given without notice, on the contrary. Less than a year ago, the answer from us in Buskerud was the opposite. We would also like to have had with us Vestfold, but there you wanted a different connection. Like many others, the rural community has done a lot of work on the reform. This was something that we wholeheartedly went in for. The reason for this was that we believed in what we were being proposed – namely that we should finally have a genuine democracy reform, where power was moved from offices and directorates to regionally elected levels. Looking at the table of contents of the proposal and setting, it looks as if it is so uplifting: new tasks and new responsibilities, reform needs, the role of society's developer, strengthening the county council as democratic arena, capacity and competence. But the headlines stayed. It just became words without content. There was no reform, just new lines on a map. Instead of strengthening the regionally elected level and a much-needed cleanup of the regional division of state agencies, so that they actually correspond to the elected regional level, the government's half-hearted proposal for a so-called regional reform is marked by the shape of the Right and the Progress Party, which primarily wants to bring down the whole of the elected government at regional level. The proposal involves the merging of counties but has no proposal to add new tasks to the regions that strengthen democracy and the proximity of the decisions to be taken. It is also apparent from the position and from the slightly meaningless, but nevertheless noting, the majority comment, where the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Left ‘suggests that the new regions will be able to undertake more tasks which have so far been assigned to the State and/or the State’. ‘Will be able to take on’? You start at the wrong end. This also applies to the proposal for aggregation of municipalities. There's no complete thinking behind it. What do you really want with larger municipalities? A much more sensible approach to a comprehensive community reform would be to start with the transfer of power to the regionally elected level. Then probably a lot in the municipalities would have fallen into place by themselves. Without the large majority, against the votes of the Right and the Advance Party, having intervened in 2015 and determined that there should actually be popular governance at regional level in Norway, and that this must be a fundamental principle for working with changes in the municipal structure, we had not even discussed the regional level here today. It is tempting to resort to the well-known quote from Peer Gynt: ‘Where the starting point is craziest, the result is the most original.’ In Buskerud, the Labour Party remains positive in making structural changes at regional level, but a prerequisite for strengthening the power and authority of local and regional democracy in social development. It only takes place through extended responsibilities for new tasks, such as: in transport, natural resource management, industrial development, education, culture and climate change and environmental social planning. The county council has repeatedly played this in for the accumulation and government during the process, but we haven't reached through. Then, too, the paradoxical – of course – happens that the county councils in Akershus and Østfold, who were initially the ones who invited Buskerud into the Viking talks, say no to merging, while Busherud, as the only one of the three states, says yes. But that was while we still believed in a democracy reform. Then came the government's non-profit proposal. Then we also said stop, so now no one is any longer supporting the creation of the new Viken region. It might look different with a better work on the part of the government, but we'll probably never know. Now the multi-scrolling number chooses to force it. It is not a suitable method, so even if the Week is formally adopted today, changes can be made quickly after the September elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1730	In 2004–2005, I was a state politician and also took part in a debate on municipal and county structure. Even then, right-wing government initiated a municipal structural reform without including the county councils and without looking at the division of tasks between the three levels of government – as they have done now. Only when municipalities and county councils called for an investigation and debate on the state level and the division of tasks between the levels of the structural debate that the government had started was included – as at present. We then thought, as now, that the levels of government need to be seen in the context of the debate on structure, and that we need to start with the tasks and get an effective distribution between levels. Five, seven or eleven regions were proposed at the time and assigned tasks such as industrial development, resource management in agriculture, fisheries/forestry, industry, tertiary and tertiary education at higher education and university level, infrastructure, transport, culture and health services. Some tasks ended up being transferred to the county councils, but nothing happened to the regional breakdown. Political and municipal politicians in Eastfold have been actively involved in the structural and task-sharing debates over the last few years. Different cooperation and pooling models have been discussed and tried to implement, inter alia: tests with a unitary body where the county office was to be merged with the county council in Eastfold. There were attempts to merge Akershu County with Eastfold County Municipality, and attempts at task differentiation. In all these discussions Eastfold has been in favour of a merger with Akershus and Oslo, but none of this has been carried out. There was no majority for changes. Instead, cooperation has been deployed across administrative levels and borders as a possible first step on the road to a larger region where Oslo, Akershus and Østfold could be included. Now the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party will merge Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud to the Viking region. As I said, Eastfold has been positive in merging with neighbouring states, but this region does not want any in Eastfold. ‘Monster region’ is called the ‘Monster region’, and no one feels belonging to it — the worst possible starting point for aggregation. As a newly elected politician in municipal and county policy at the time of 2004, I was quite surprised at how busy politicians were in reforming the municipal and county structures. It was not something that I had been asked for, but I was not against it whether it seemed reasonable, and whether I got better services out of it. I am in favour of changes in the municipal and county structures, as the Labour Party is in favour of this matter, but I am not in favour of the coercion that the majority is conducting here today. The government didn't learn anything from the time Erna Solberg was the municipal minister and wanted to build more robust municipalities. Again, the number of counties has been determined and then the tasks to be carried out have been assessed. It's again starting at the wrong end. The number of regions must depend on the division of tasks between municipalities, regions and countries. It is necessary to develop an appropriate direct public administration level, in relation to size and tasks. Eastfold is today being coerced with Akershus and Buskerud. That is what the Labour Party is against. No one sees what this reform should provide of added value and better services, as the majority have spoken about in the debate. The representatives from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party get a tough job explaining the people of Eastfold why this was necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1751	Strong and authoritative county municipalities are needed, where county councils have and take responsibility for tasks that can best be solved at regional level. The majority of the population wants a regionally elected level. So the debate has been going on in all states on how we can best solve problems of different nature, and whether there is a need to change county boundaries in order to get the best possible solutions. It's been the debate out there. So there has been an ongoing topic in the debate that these tasks that were to be discussed have not come, they have not been clarified – what is to be solved? As a result, it has ended up in a discussion about county boundaries and not about tasks. Government parties must take responsibility for that. This gave a very poor starting point for the discussions. The government parties and the support parties asked the states to start at the wrong end and the result was as it was. Nevertheless, the majority, the Right and the Advance Party together with the Left and the Christian People's Party will force the states to merge. In fact, the Christian People's Party writes in its note that the best thing had been tasks first and then to create an appropriate structure. But they found that it was not possible to obtain it. Here is the Christian People's Party right. It was not possible to do so because the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left did not listen. They didn't listen to the states, they didn't listen to the Christian People's Party, they just listened to themselves. So now the majority is going to merge. Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud, well aware that this is not a solution that the states believe is good, for many reasons. Similarly, the majority of the other counties who have said no to aggregation — full overrun and a decision on a map of new counties not supported in the whole country. The Masterpiece of the Left becomes quite clear by those who are going to use it – the score of the Masterpiece is probably about the summation of the polls of the Left. With another process, the result could be much better. So now the government parties, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, make sure it doesn't. But the Right Party and the Advance Party may well be quite satisfied. They see this as a first step towards the closure of the county municipalities, and the cooperation parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, should note – that they have ended up in a very bad company to take care of the county municipalities, the regions. We in the Workers' Party have said that we want strong and functional municipalities and support voluntary community mergers, mergers where the municipalities themselves believe it will promote better services for their inhabitants. There is every reason to commend all those elected to the population who have spent a lot of time and energy facilitating processes and debates with strong involvement. Then you should have respect for the decisions the municipality finally comes up with, and the Workers' Party has that respect. We will vote against the use of coercion of both municipalities and counties, we will listen to local and regional democracy, we will take them seriously, we stand by our promises of volunteering for counties and municipalities. The government with the Left does not. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left representatives of the Stortinget do not listen to local elected representatives. These parties promised to volunteer, but they don't stand by it. Today they use coercion and whip to both municipalities and counties. The government has run a process in both the municipal reform and the regional reform that started at the wrong end. The tasks were missing, the deadlines were partly short, the financial assumptions were changed along the way and the volunteering line promised had been abandoned. The municipal mergers and county mergers have now been designed by a few hands in the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. It's not a good process, it's how you show that you don't take local democracy seriously, but that's how the country is currently being run. It's sound rhetoric, it's terrible political craftsmanship, it's time for a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1769	In Norway, we have chosen to assign responsibility for the majority of healthcare to municipalities. There are several good reasons for that. The most important thing is that it is where good health is created. Health services repair unhealth, while schools, kindergartens, family protection and safe local environments create health. That's why local politicians are doctors, not medical doctors, but social doctors. Local policies have a greater impact on the health of people than much of what is happening in healthcare. The second important reason for doing such extensive and complex tasks for municipalities is that local politicians and municipalities can think entirely from a local perspective. That's wise. It was going to prevent silos, and it was going to help create a more coherent healthcare service where different professionals worked as a team around the patient. The municipalities have to a lesser extent succeeded in doing so. Nursing, home care, physiotherapist, health centre, school health service, psychologist, PPT, health centres, everyday rehabilitation team – I could still list – but you understand the point. Local authorities have been given more and more demanding health tasks, but they have organized them in silos. It cannot continue. Therefore, the government presented the primary health message. Later today, the Stortinge will join in extensive legislative proposals such as a follow-up to this Communication, to make demands for a wide range of competences and to facilitate the future take-over of dental services by municipalities. The major municipal reform in the 1960s was the result of municipal responsibility for the nine-year primary school. In my opinion, this municipal reform is a result of the extensive tasks that the municipalities have already received within the primary health service area. This is well demonstrated in the position of the Health and Care Committee on the primary health notification. There, the majority of the committee – and I stress – from the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left write the following: ‘...shows that a new municipal structure with a larger trade union environment can improve the ability of municipalities to provide high-quality health and care services in line with current and future needs. The notification can therefore be seen in connection with Notifying. St. 14 Municipal Reform – new tasks for larger municipalities.’ [[2014-2015]] The reality is that, as a consequence of the interaction reform, primary health service tasks have already grown out of many of today’s municipalities. A very clear example of this is the requirement for municipal emergency 24 hours. These are emergency beds that replace unnecessary hospitalisations and require multidisciplinary competence. They are now being expanded to include mental health and dependence. Many of these beds are now established in intercommunal solutions. The requirement to have psychological competence and midwife is also solutions that we see are established intermunicipally. Responsibility for the main welfare tasks is shifted from the local government hall to intercommunal structures. That is what is at issue today. Are we still going to have welfare municipalities in Norway, which are responsible for the largest part of healthcare, and which in the future will require more complex and higher competences, where professionals do not want to be left alone in their areas, but work in teams with others? If the answer to that is yes, today is the first step in a comprehensive community reform. That's my answer, and that's the government's answer. If the answer is no, those who vote no today must also answer who will be responsible for the primary health service in the future. For the task has already grown out of many of today's municipalities. Adult pain increases every year. Takes over, for example: the state or regions of these tasks, then we lose something valuable in the Norwegian model. We lose the total responsibility for contributing to good health in society and the greatest responsibility for repairing un-health. Societal doctors will no longer be responsible for the medical doctor. I think that will lead to poorer health, poorer health care and less democracy. That is why this reform, adopted today, is the first step and an incredibly important reform to ensure that we continue to have a good and strong primary health service in Norway, which is, in fact, the largest part of healthcare, and which solves the greatest health challenges in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1798	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1803	I come from a state where perhaps most municipalities have joined together. They have had good processes, and the Workers' Party has had an active role in all those municipalities. But the Labour Party is for a good division of tasks, which means that we get better services for the population. This is particularly true for dental care. When all heavy professional environments and large organizations, including KS, advise against the recommuneration of the dental field, does not the Council of State listen to the strong professional environments? How does he feel that a transfer to the municipalities will strengthen or maintain today's quality, especially in district municipalities, where they already have challenges in recruiting private dentists?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1808	Firstly, I am absolutely convinced that if the Labour Party's waiting-and-see attitude had been allowed to dominate and have a majority in this matter, we would not have seen the results that we have seen in the representative's home country. If the Workers' Party comes into government with the Centre Party for the fall, this will stop work. The working party does not have an answer to who will then solve the primary health tasks to which the party has joined to be resolved in the municipalities. The party has no answer to that. In the case of dental services, the political debate often uses the term ‘teeth are part of the body’. I fully agree with that, but today there are teeth in the county council and the rest of the body in the municipalities. It's totally illogical. As a result, some of those who have the strongest rights under the Dental Services Act are not being granted their rights. They receive home care, but they do not receive adequate dental care, because dental care is placed at a different level of administration. Today is a start to clean this up, so that with the greatest needs they actually get close to the services they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1815	I don't know if I'm going to thank you for the answer, but when it comes to the development of the bundling of the municipalities, there hasn't been any problem in Hordaland, unlike maybe many other places. However, in the case of dental care, centres of expertise have been built over the past ten years, which have enabled us to develop practical knowledge and to eat the specialist health service, just to reach the most vulnerable patients. During the visits I have had around the municipalities, there has never been any problem with interaction with the county council, but the most vulnerable patients need the acute competence. Nowhere else in the health service do you transfer the specialist health field to the municipalities and fragment it. How does the Minister feel that, in particular, the top offer should be maintained? I just want to mention as an example that in dentistry you are actually the best at reporting care failure, and that is something that has developed, among other things. in these centres of excellence, so that they deliver real results today. Then you take that risk... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1822	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1827	I fully agree with the description of the centres of expertise, but they do not depend on the county or the new regions that own it. On the contrary, the model that Stortinget will deal with later today takes care of them in a very good way by making it a legal task for the host municipalities to run them. Intermunicipal cooperation is required by law, and it is financed from the State budget. They are fully assured, 100 p.m., in the bill that the Stortinget will deal with later today. It's not a problem that you need to be worried about. But what I'm concerned about is part of those who have legal rights under the Dental Services Act, people who live at home, especially older with complex disorders. They do not reach either the county dental services or the centres of expertise. Home nurses who could work together in teams, for example with dental care, had just been able to secure the dental health of those for whom we see dental care failing today. That is what the Labour Party is voting against, a reform that will help to secure them with the greatest needs for the dental care they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1832	Councillor Höie had many descriptions, and towards the end of his post he says: this is the first step in the municipal reform. Then my question to Höie is, what's the second step?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1837	The second step is that one continues this reform, that the municipalities are fully aware that this is a first step, and that there is a need for more municipalities to merge, precisely because with the tasks described by a majority in the Stortinget that the municipalities will solve in the future, the municipal structure you see today will not be possible, and we will continue to have challenges after the mergers that are taking place today. The option to do so has not been answered by the Central Party. The alternative to maintaining the current structure while keeping municipalities responsible for primary health services is that the main welfare tasks are transferred to inter-municipal companies and inter-municipal structures. I think it's worth living with when it comes to sewer lines and renovation, but it's actually not worth living with when it comes to the tasks that the voters are most concerned with when they go to elections, the basic welfare services, which are moved out of the local government and into inter-municipal structures. It worries me, and it's a concern for democracy and for health.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1844	Governments spent a lot of their time talking about how important it was with strong trade unions and large, robust trade unions. It was important for recruitment, and it was important for the service. Then we come to the dental service, where we have a good professional environment and a well-functioning service – it is the healthcare that has the greatest success and the most satisfied users throughout the country. That's where it has to be fragmented. The dentists are going to the municipalities, large cities are going to take over the dental service, and the area around is still to be operated by the county. This is going to be split up, there's going to be smaller environments, and there's going to be privatisation in some of these municipalities. All the hearing bodies were opposed. All the trade unions say this is a bad idea. Every county council says this is a bad idea. All municipalities say this is a bad idea. Why is there none of these people who understand what's good about this? And why does the Council of State think this is actually a good idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1851	In the representative's description of the legislative proposal under consideration now, I don't think it was one of the statements that the representative made, which was correct. What was in the manufacture was a continuous defect. What lies here is that a future solution will be for the municipalities to take full responsibility for dental health. I have justified it very well, precisely on the basis of the fact that there is no logic that dental care, which is essentially a primary health service, performed by dentists and dentists, cannot be the responsibility of the municipalities – that when they are responsible for emergency beds, where patients with major multidisciplinary challenges are put in place, when they are responsible for medical services for all other primary health services outside of their teeth, when they are responsible for intoxication and mental health, when they are responsible for the patients who have the most complex and complex suffering – not just for health care, but all around it – then they should not be able to take responsibility for their teeth. There's no logic in that reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1859	But is it not true that an agreement has now been reached whereby 15 experimental municipalities are to take over this, where dental nurses are to be transferred to the municipalities, and where dentists are to remain in the county council, other than the large cities, which may then sign up for these trials? Does not the Council of State see that the fragmentation of the professional environment, that the follow-up to the technical update, for which the county council is responsible today, will become problematic, that the special health service in the dental field for which the county is currently responsible becomes problematic, and that the municipalities in the rest of the county will then have trouble having adequate dental treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1864	The bill that we are going to deal with later today will provide a legal basis for transferring the entire dental service to the municipalities. Then it's absolutely right that the representative has, that the majority wants it to be implemented in such a way that a trial starts in 15 municipalities. The up to 15 municipalities will be fully responsible for dental care. The rest of the dental care will then be a county responsibility during that probationary period. It is a wise way to carry out a reform. One gets to try it out, and I am absolutely convinced that that reform will just show what is my point, namely that it will be a way of ensuring that those with the greatest needs actually meet this service. But it is not right that the municipalities should take over the dental care in the first round. There will be whole services to be transferred, only in a trial period, and of course the government's aim is to transfer this permanently at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1871	Transfer of dental health and attempts at 15 municipalities, and then certainly large municipalities, is a purely political horse trade without any professional justification at all. The Dental Association says in its consultation response that there is no – and I stress, no – professional justification for moving this field of service, and that no argument or evidence has been provided indicating the need for change, either from patient organisations, user organisations, municipalities or county municipalities or from the service. The proposal for which the Government and the Minister of Health now support even includes the need for new inter-municipal cooperation in order to resolve this in the future, which the Minister of Health in the same speech warns against. Does the Minister of Health know this better than the dentists?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1878	I think I see, and I hope the representative also sees, where dental health fails in Norwegian society today. Those who can go to the services themselves, those who can pay for the services themselves, children and young people in high school, get good dental care with good results. But we see that not least our older people and those with extensive care at home very often develop a dental health that is not just bad dental health, but that both goes beyond the ability to be active and to be social and not least goes beyond nutrition. It's one of the areas where we see it fail, and a perfectly obvious reason is that this part of healthcare is not integrated with the rest of the healthcare, the rest of the home-based services, with the municipal services. If one is to use the type of argument that the representative here makes, the logical answer is that then the whole primary health service should be moved to the regional level, and then a lot goes wrong in the Norwegian model.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1887	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1894	It has been interesting to follow the debate today, and there have been some repeaters in all the right posts. One is that they're incredibly satisfied with themselves. It's historic, there's been some huge progress in this reform. The second is that they're talking about the Center Party. That's the two review notes. They're brilliant, and the Center Party is terrible. Then I want to go over the history of this reform a little bit. This reform began by saying that it should be a local democracy reform, and it began to have local referendums around the country. Then the Right sent out a letter from his secretary-general and said, "To everything, don't have referendums, because the people can mean wrong things. Fortunately, however, local politicians around Norway chose to hold referendums. And what were the results there? Well, just that the people said no, not yes. There was no enthusiasm, because people saw that there was no good reason for the reform. In 145 local referendums the answer and the council were crystal clear: do not go for centralisation. What have been the reasons for the government? In the beginning, Erna Solberg said in 2013 that there was elderly care, we have to do it for the elderly. We hardly hear a word about that today, because it didn't hold water. When you came out and asked where people were most satisfied, people are happy in many of the little ones. So there was intercommunal cooperation. When the Council of State Sanner presented its communication in 2015, it said that there are too many intercommunal cooperation in Norway – ergo we need to have a municipal merger. Last, Bent Höie argued in his intervention instead of why there was more inter-municipal cooperation after this reform than less, because that is the consequence of the task shift that has been; there are more IKS, not fewer IKS, although it was used to justify the implementation of this reform. So they said that with larger municipalities you can transfer more problems. The only problem I've heard is enthusiasm for today, it's marriage law. It is the great task that the speaker of the Right spoke about in great detail that we are now going to have the right of marriage for Norwegian rapporteurs. There's no need for a big community reform to do. And then in the last year, there was child protection. You have to do this because of the weakest kids. It's the most unreasonable of all, starting to push it in front of you, going away from the basic reasons you had at first – and then you found it, even though you know that there's no clear relationship between child protection being poor in large or small municipalities, there are variations. That's what it shows. If there had been a child protection reform, you should have put the resources there and just made an improvement in child protection instead of pushing it in front of you. Finally, the regional reform. It was summed up very well by Geir Tskedal from the Christian People's Party. He said, "... we've managed to come up with a solution that no parties agree with." The parties should vote against, not vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1909	To take a little bit more history: if we go back a few years in time, Right's main reason for merging municipalities was to save money. But then you thought, no, we lose the choice, we have to talk about people and not billions. Then you stopped talking about it, you changed the tactics; the services in the small municipalities were so bad, it said. But then came the large population survey from the state, which showed that people were most satisfied with the services of the small municipalities, especially in care and care. And the biggest challenges were the big municipalities. And what was the next round? Well, it was a problem with intercommunal companies that demanded aggregation. And then there was child protection. Ergo - there are no long-term arguments for aggregation that keep you professional. So in all of these areas, the factual content of the government's argument has been rejected. It clearly shows that there is a crisis in the arguments of the teammates, since the parties insist on merging without having the factual arguments necessary to make drastic changes — at least by coercion. Bindal municipality must be merged with municipalities in Nord-Trøndelag by force, and thus also forced to move from Nordland to Trøndelag. I haven't found a single good argument for that. It's simply not to believe. Skin enhancement is always a bad policy strategy, and even worse when you have a circular argument: aggregation is important, because aggregation is important. So it's not without reason that the coercive comrades are resisting their so-called reforms. The right-wing achievement project, to which the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have largely joined, is so crucial for the strategy of these parties that they will cancel the local people's will. Community unification against the local people will not strengthen the Commune-Norway, but weaken it. Regional reform is creating even more root ground in terms of division and without new tasks. It's not to believe either. Most people are well aware that the Council of StateSanners and the majority government want to win out with classical centralisation – a policy that only central struts serve, and the rest of the country loses. It's a historic day, but it's a historically bad day.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1920	Much has been said in this debate until now. I'm going to try to get some geography knowledge about Finnmark into this debate, because this childhood lesson is probably overdue for the majority in this room. One question that only needs to be asked is: How big is Finnmark? The answer is: 48 615,95 km2 – almost as large as Telemark, Vestfold, Buskerud, Møre and Romsdal, Akershus, Oslo and Østfold together and 107 times larger than Oslo. And then you hear that More and Romesdal are too big to be beaten together with other counties! We can just guess why. Geography may not be the argument for that decision. Even with this small geographical orientation, the argument is used that the largest county in Norway is not large enough. We're not robust enough. Unbelievable! But the reason is enough that it had to be just because it was predetermined how many regions we should have. Remember – the answer should be eleven, was the message from the Council of State. OK, boss, was the feedback from the other boys in the room. Vips, Finnmark was gone as a separate state, and it was regardless of what the majority of the population wants. We know best, your government's mantra. Such an arrogant attitude to the will of the people would probably be commented on by Ludvig in Flåklypa in this way: ‘It’s fali’. On 11 September we will know how right he would get. Unfortunately, it seems that the Storting will decide, by a very limited majority, that Finnmark should be merged with Troms – to grow bigger, to become more robust – where the distance from the border towards Nordland to Bordere Jakobselv is more than 1000 km. But don't worry, it's the majority's feedback – you're used to distances. Yes, we are, there's no need to make the distance even bigger between the population and the decision-makers, as the majority here will. It's completely incomprehensible. In addition, the argument is used that there are so few people living in Finnmark. My answer is, we've been and are many enough to populate our entire long-range state. And we have done well, created jobs, used our resources and contributed greatly to the country's gross domestic product. We have guided ourselves with wise and wise people elected at all levels. Then, unfortunately, we have registered that today's government, knowingly and willfully, has helped to weaken the so-called robustness by transferring less money and, not least, streamlining a frightening number of state jobs from Finnmark. Knowing your identity creates a sense of law. Most Finnmarkings are proud Finnmarkings – a good feeling. That is why I am sure that I have the majority of Finnmark's people with me in our common message: Finnmark must remain as its own region. We're big enough, and we're robust enough. That is why I am pleased that our party leadership has been so clear that the Workers' Party will not accept the use of coercion in the regional reform when we come to government for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1929	Here comes an old rapporteur who in his time was almost ready with the stock exchange on the border south of Oslo not to be swallowed by the big city in the north. But here also comes an old rapporteur who once after 1995 went on a trip to the municipality abo in the south, Ski, and said to the local government there – more than 20 years ago, that is – that I wanted our two municipalities to join our stakes. The need for cooperation in order to obtain better services was already obvious at the time. For cooperation projects following cooperation projects, it emerged as intercommunal companies. It was intercommunal medical care, intercommunal fire services, renovation companies, sewerage facilities, etc., etc. The disadvantage was that with these, direct political governance also disappeared from the local government. In June 2016, local authorities in Oppegård and Ski decided to establish a new municipality together. It shall enter into force on 1 January 2020 and shall be called the municipality of Nordre Follo. It will have a total of 57,000 inhabitants. The municipality of Nordre Follo has set forward targets. First, the aim is to ensure a good, equivalent and varied supply to the population and to be an important premiscible for viable social development. Citizens will continue to find kindergartens, schools and health and care services in their neighbourhoods. Other services shall be brought together to ensure strong professional environments, knowledge development, economies of scale, innovation and good quality. Nordre Follo has the ambition to be the country’s best breeding municipality and to be at the forefront of innovation in good health and care services. The use of technology and new solutions is central. The municipality of Nordre Follo shall have an active and clear role as a social developer and pool the municipal resources for the benefit of the inhabitants and the business community of the region. Established cities, towns and towns need to be further developed, and we need to work for a collective network of good structures and short waiting times. This should connect the entire municipality and connect well to Oslo. You can have such great goals when you have renewed strength and enthusiasm – because I read enthusiasm and faith in the future in this. There's been a lot of emotional commitment around the process, and it's good with commitment. People don't move for it if the municipality gets bigger. In a few years the citizens will be equally proud to live in small Kolbotn, small Siggerud or the other small places where they are located today in the two municipalities. That relation won't change. But time is running out, and new demands come with it. Cities and municipalities must be constantly developing, and I think the politicians in Ski and Oppegård municipalities have done a formidable job in the process of what is now becoming the new large municipality of Nordre Follo. Happy Birthday!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1938	Many have said that today is a historic day. And that's probably it, but it's also a day of historically poor decisions. The fact that one forces Akershus, Østfold and Buskerud together into one region with Oslo in the middle is a case of such a historically bad decision. From Halden to Hallingskarvet with Oslo in the middle – think of getting a capital region without the capital being in! There's no sense in that, and I still have one good argument for this region. If you read the summary in your configuration today, it says: ‘The counties should make up functional units. Continuity of employment and labour markets should not, as a general rule, be shared. Area linked by communications and industries should be in the same state.’» In the motion for a resolution on the Viken, one in any case violates the general rule with Oslo in the middle of it. I would like to remind you of the decision taken by Akershus on 5 December, where the majority said no to the agreement on the Viken region as he led: ‘Constraints of structure and scope, as well as uncertainty about future tasks, do not help to improve the provision of services to our citizens through this reform. Furthermore, Akershus makes it a prerequisite for regional reform that Oslo will become part of the Viken region, if any. [[...]] We are today a common housing and labour market, and such a combination would give a positive gain.» Why won't the government and the cooperation parties listen to the second largest state in the country with almost 500,000 inhabitants? Now we have heard before today that Morene and Romsdal are so robust that it can be a region of their own, but Akershus with 500,000 inhabitants should not be robust enough. According to a poll, very few people have supported the Viking region. I also think that when you're going to make such a big decision, you should have worked for a little bit wider numbers than what's here today. In the next option, there are new possibilities, and we will be able to resolve this coercion. It's an old saying for a municipal merger in Nordre Follo, but when the municipalities do. It was only Ski and Oppengård that wanted it out in Follo, and then I thought it was okay that the result was as it is. Municipalities are now working to make a municipality with good services for all citizens. We don't think that process would be as good if one had forced the other municipalities. The process is only good when it's will and desire. I also thought the government should have understood that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1955	Today is a historic day for Kommune-Norway. The tasks that are being solved in the municipalities today are much bigger and more extensive than what they were 50 years ago, when the municipal map was drawn. Municipal reform is just about securing good welfare services where they live, now and in the future. I want people to be allowed to live where they live, but you are entitled to exactly the same good services whether you live in Bindal or if you live in Bodø. The ambulance shall come when you need it, the child-restraint children shall be assisted by qualified staff, and the business community shall meet a municipality providing resources to meet their needs. Now a historical reform takes place where we go from 426 to 354 municipalities. When nearly 100 municipalities have mutually positive decisions on aggregation, it shows that we have local politicians from all parties who have shown good political leadership. From Bindal there has been a cross-political desire from the Left, Right and Socialist Left parties to merge with the northernmost municipalities of the Trondelag. I have followed the debate that has been going on in the north, and have missed a greater focus from local politicians on what a changed municipal border will have to say to me as a resident, and less focus on identity. Identity is of course important, but it is not the one that creates a content in the services of the inhabitants. The municipal reform will not take away any of their identity, but it will just ensure that you, as a resident, are given equal services from your municipality wherever you live. Then there are some politicians who say that in my municipality we can solve all the problems. Yeah, do they really? In this process we have had a strong pressure from the Municipality of Steigen, where a new majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Pensionist Party want to merge with Bodø. This new majority is just more concerned with using public crowns for good services for its citizens, for school, care, health and child protection, than using them on their own councillor, their own economic department, etc. Today, they have a vulnerable professional environment, and one in ten children in the municipality are on relief or care – twice as many as in the country, for the rest and three times as many as in Bodø, with whom they want to join. So a little bit about lack of coercion. In Ofoten, Evenes is concerned that they will be able to solve the major future tasks as a new strong defence municipality by standing alone. Narvik, who has the rapporteur from the Labour Party, has made it clear that they want more coercion. And it was a great disappointment from the Workers' Party Group leader in Steigen that we would not use force and join them with Bodø. We know that the Central Party will keep everything that it has been, but that the Workers' Party has put itself like this on the sideline, does not clothe the party that has historically been a reform party, but has now become a reverse party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1973	I am a child of the previous municipal reform from the 1960s – the time we went from something over 730 to a little over 450 municipalities in Norway. I don't think it was in vain that Biri was forced together with Snertingdal and Vardal into the Gjøvik metropolitan area, that I arrived in 1968, but I think we've both been fine. The fact that I am standing here is so its case, but Gjøvik has indisputably become the largest and leading municipality in Uppland in these decades. From 2016 we have even become a university city. It's not entirely random. It is a red thread from the Schei Committee and the municipal reform in the 1960s to today's status as a university city. Gjøvik Engineering School was established in 1966 under the name Gjøvik Technical School, or the ‘technician’, in the public mouth. From 1994 it became the University of Gjøvik, and from 2016 NTNU in Gjøvik. The development of technical infrastructure, such as road, water and sewerage, and large-scale residential development – especially in the merged municipalities – were one of the main aims of the 1964 municipal reform. The Schei Committee was a community builder – not a pooler. In addition, secondary schools came as a result of the reform and ambition to complete the smallest primary schools and the establishment of somewhat larger central schools. In the new municipality of Gjøvik, we have done quite well with both parts, both the technical infrastructure and the school part. We received the National School Ownership Award in 2003, and the smallest primary schools are largely closed. But it's taken almost 50 years, and we're going to remember that when we start today at the municipalities to be designed for the next 50 years – yes, for the next two generations. Today, welfare – not technical infrastructure and school – is the basis for a majority voting in favour of a welfare reform. We're going to facilitate early action and good public health. A good childhood lasts life. Unfortunately, it also makes a bad childhood. We have a responsibility to strengthen services in line with current and future challenges. Chronic suffering resulting from lifestyle and mental health challenges is more pronounced in today’s health than in the past. We have to take this seriously. In Oppland and Hedmark, where there are 48 municipalities, and where there are no mergers, I tend to say that we have 48 public health ministers in the rapporteurs and one hospital director in eight hospitals at the Hospital Inland HF. In 48 municipalities, we have 13 bodyguards. What number is wrong? We have 48 municipalities, but only 20 health centers. What number is wrong? We have 48 municipalities, but almost no one has a municipal psychologist. What number is wrong? In Uppland and Hedmark, we have the highest suicide rate in Norway, unfortunately. In both counties, the drop is high: about 30 pst. We have major public health challenges, and we must take this seriously. We need to organise the resources and put in the effort as early as possible. Children and young people deserve to come after us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e1998	Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane took the next talk, and we made a commitment to merge under a series of commitments. The councillor has reviewed the list we had, and very few of the statements of intent have been followed up by the government. Of those eight points, only one is fully satisfied. I can stretch to say two, because that Hornindal doesn't join a new one, I think I have to be accepted – that 25 out of 26 are included. But the position of County and assistant to Leikanger – and not the entire leader group – is not a fulfillment; it is not that the leadership is collected in Sogn and Fjordane. Strong, robust professional environments are suddenly not a theme. Here's two enough. Tannhelsetenesta – counterfight if false. Collective transport, further education — here the government party re-shows the committee setting. Again: What happens if they win the choice? The new Nav region office of Bergen has not been decided. Regional ordering responsibility for nationwide ferry service is not established. New important tasks have not been added. Three new tasks assigned should remain at national level. There are purchases for domestic air routes, for private airports and for State fishing port facilities. This is national. So the clear statements are not in place. The government has broken it down and must itself be responsible for that mess. Quick marriage between the municipalities in the country, including in my country, we are against. Of course, we vote for it where it is voluntary. There have been huge resources spent on the neighboring talk, and where it has led to voluntary mergers, I think it's good. But it must also be respected when the municipalities say no. I am therefore pleased that, in the context of the decision to support the voluntary merger on Vågsøy and Flora to Kinn, the majority say clearly that Bremander is not going to be forced to do so; they are still going to be their own municipality, even if this municipality is in the middle. Here I also call for the Progress Party and the Left to say clearly from this pulpit that they are united in this. Forced against Bremander is out-of-date. Just before the meeting started here today, a journalist asked me: What do you want to feel when you press the button, when you have to face the defeat, Ingrid, that 250 years of history is now over – your county will be history. This county cannot be added to a new region. I just have to confess: I want to sit with a lump in my throat and in my stomach, but at the same time it seems more than ever to me to stand on, put real new tasks in place, get a growth in my county. New government is becoming more important than ever, a government that wants to start with what should be its starting point: new tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2011	In 2011, there was a referendum in East Agder to see if the population wanted to merge the Agder states. The people didn't want that. East-Agder is probably the only one of the states that has had a referendum – for or against a merger. But at the same time as that referendum, there was an extra referendum in three of the municipalities bordering on West Agder. The words were: If there was no in the referendum on the merging of the Agder states, shall we apply for a transition to the West Agder? It became the majority of them. The case was sent to Stortinget, and the suspension was issued on 16 April 2013, the request for a change of county affiliation for Iveland, Birkenes and Lillesand municipalities in the Aust-Agder district. Now, this case does not have so much to do with the matter we are discussing today, but when I have finished my post, you will see why I have raised this matter. The first comment of the Progress Party in the vote was as follows: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party indicate that referendums are a function of a democracy in which the right to vote is asked to decide on predetermined policy options. These members are in favour of using referendums and it is essential that the outcome of such votes be respected and followed up. These members indicate that the municipalities of Birkenes, Iveland and Lillesand have held a referendum on changed county ties. These members note that the result in all these municipalities was yes to changed county relations. These members find it sad and sad that the majority in this case put the people's will aside and test the results of these referendums. These members believe that the majority is acting both undemocratically and unwisely." The Progress Party met the applications from these three municipalities, as the only party. This was hard for me at the time, I'd like to admit it, because I saw that it might ruin Aust-Agder if these three municipalities were allowed to replace the county. But it says – and it said so at the time – in our programme that we should follow referendums. I am proud of that, and that was one of the reasons why I signed up for the Advance Party in the autumn of 2000. Asking the people for their advice and then following it is democratic and wise. The Progress Party wants to bring down the counties. We don't have anything in our program of union mergers, and at least not of coercion. I believe that the Agder states are being coerced because the criteria in the application are not being met, such as that state jobs are going to East Agder. I hereby make the words of the Progress Party from 2013 to mine: this member feels it is sad and sad that the majority in this Chamber seems to put aside the will of the people and to try out the results of the referendum in Aust-Agder. This member believes that the majority is acting both undemocratic and unwise. I am therefore going to follow the referendum and also the 2016 opinion poll and vote for East-Agder not to join with West-Agder.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2031	It has been interesting to listen to the debate, and there may be reason to take a little step back and look at what has happened in the last three years. It is well over 200 municipalities that have had a referendum on municipal mergers, and almost two thirds of them said no. That's the big picture. They include both more and less indirect threats, financial blackmail through the income system and government immigration. Therefore, it is no wonder that the Minister of State for the Interior and the Minister of Health today say so clearly that this is just the first step. Several municipalities should now be tricked and threatened with bundling even in the next period. But this also gave the voters a clear choice. Thus, voters can also make a clear statement as to what they want for the next period. I'm not in doubt about what I want. I am looking forward to Mr Sanner's becoming Mr Sanner's great representative again, and then he will be allowed to see that the coercion that might be adopted today will be reversed. I look forward to the future of Count Frank J. Jenssen as a loyal civil servant assisting a new government to dissolve the coercion mergers in Trøndelag. It has been nice that today's debate has been so much about the Center Party, but it's a little funny that some representatives are also trying to teach the Center Party about going out and looking at the situation. I've been to Outer Namdal many times, I've seen how things are out there, and I've heard what they're saying from Leka about coercion. It was as she said, the young sick person at the public meeting earlier in ours: why should the Oslo community think that they know better than me what's best for my local community? In Outer Namdal, there is not one municipality that says no and blocks the rest; in Outer Namdal, there are three out of four municipalities that say no. There is no technical justification for that coercion; it is only a partisan deal where the Left had to get its will across the majority of the municipalities concerned. Then today we are also facing a Christian People's Party that says that they have saved the third level of government. It has been well done not to realize that there is already a majority for the third level of government here in the Chamber without the Right Party and the Advance Party, and there is no problem for the Christian People's Party to have a majority for the third level of government together with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. I think there are a lot of people who look across the arguments that are being served here today. They will not want new rounds of municipal mergers down to 160 or 100 municipalities. They will not have more debate on structure; they will have debate on quality and content, without being threatened with more mergers. But if that's going to happen, it's going to have to change the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2047	Thank you to Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Jan Tore Sanner and all the good political co-players in Kommune-Norway who are doing a great job of securing the welfare communities of the future. Thank you to leading local politicians in my home country, Møre and Romsdal, who have understood the importance of our future needing well-equipped municipalities to solve the welfare challenges of the future. I would like to see more municipalities found each other. But when that is said, I am pleased that, after several years of ‘wanting it, it would, but do it!’ policy, we are now well in the process of creating more robust municipalities that are better prepared to meet the many demanding challenges of the future in terms of health and well-being, safe jobs and housing. The last right-wing government, with Erna Solberg as the municipal minister, we also started a work to organise for fewer municipalities. Fresh in memory is the municipality of Kristiansund, which joined the Free Municipality – an important system of reason that helped Kristiansund to develop and become a strong regional centre for all the inhabitants of Northern Ireland. In the baptismal speech to new Kristiansund, the municipality's rapporteur from the Workers' Party, Per Kristian Øyen, municipal minister Erna Solberg, thanked for the help. The eye expressed disappointment at its own party, the Workers' Party, which, together with the Centre Party and SV, stopped the further process in order for several municipalities to merge. Prior to the 2013 decision, the Swedish Labour Party (Svein Gülseth) declared that there should be one or two municipalities on Sunnmøre. It is possible that he had taken much Møller's tear. Today, however, the rapporteur of the Labour Party in Ålesund, Eva Vinje Aurdal, is the one who has to fight against his own people here centrally. Together with Højre’s rapporteur in Skodje, Dag Olav Tennfjord, she has done a great job with many people to gather the municipalities of Ålesund, Skodje, Ørskog, Sande and Haram into the new Ålesund municipality – a robust municipality that will help to strengthen and further develop a powerful sunbathing region in a strong Møre and Romsdal. In several of its programmes, the Labour Party has had strong views on the need for structural change, without further progress being made in government with the Centre Party. It's in the trunk. I am glad that the Right took responsibility and started the process again when we returned to the government. With fewer and stronger municipalities, we now contribute to the spread of power and the decentralisation of several tasks and responsibilities down to the municipalities where people live and live. I hope the Right in Government will continue this important job after the autumn's choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2060	I congratulate ourselves on the great day and the historic decisions that are being made today. With larger and stronger municipalities, we equip the foundations of the welfare society, and we put more power and responsibility closer to those decisions. There will be no more democracy, the fewer voters who stand behind each local government representative, as one could get the impression from some in the debate today. On the other hand, there will be more democracy where local politicians and administration have a clear role to play. I have always been concerned with the intention of reforming the municipality. We want stronger housing and work regions, better services and less bureaucracy. Units need to become more rational, so that services can be provided in a more efficient way, and we need to create more attractive professional environments. This does not mean that as far as possible is best, as the opponents of the reform agree with us. I myself live in a municipality that is today adopted by Stortinget. As a local politician in Ørland for 12 years, I know the processes that have gone on since I entered the policy in 2003, fairly well. Ørland and Bjugn are the two municipalities in the South Trøndelag with the shortest distance between town halls – only 10 minutes – and are more as one unit in terms of housing and labour market. After repeated municipal government decisions with positive intentions to merge and a few rounds of referendums, I am pleased that the Stortinget is in favour of Fosen getting a municipal structure with rational and efficient units. The right, together with several parties, has shown that in those cases where a municipality can destroy the best solutions, the Stortinge may adopt a different structure than the wishes of the local government. By merging Ørland and Bjugn, the merger of Åfjord and Roan falls in place, as Roan has been clear that they do not want to join Bjugn in addition to Åfjord. I have read on the website of the local authority that the Workers' Party will oppose the merger of Roan and Åfjord due to doubts about local desire. I then recommend that they read the municipal government decisions, which are clear and clear about the solution that is in the setting here today. Rissa and Leksvik deserve a great reward for having already adopted a merger as of 1 January 2018. I feel confident that today we are adopting a solution that is in line with the wishes of the people. In the autumn of 2014, the Fosen Regional Council carried out a thorough survey showing a clear majority for the merger of Ørland and Bjugn, Åfjord and Roan and Leksvik and Rissa. The people wanted a division of the municipalities according to the clear living and working regions, which gives the most rational units. We now get three municipalities that should be able to be quite equivalent, despite a little bit different population. I am happy to follow the processes further for both new trøndelag and a new Ørland.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2073	First: Congratulations to Jan Tore Sanner, the architect behind the municipal reform. A crazy lot of work has been done by the Minister and the Municipality of Norway to transform the municipalities into the future and the challenges that are coming. This is political leadership. It is political courage to grab hold of a fixed municipal and county structure. Of course, there would be opposition, discussions and different opinions. Where is the leadership of the State Workers Party – in municipal reform and in reforms in general? We see passivity, we see resistance. ‘Sit quietly in the boat’ are words that run in my head. There is now even criticism of the lack of tasks for the new regions, while at the same time there is resistance to the tasks proposed. What can the Workers' Party do with this? One of the major challenges we face is the formidable increase in the number of older people. By 2030 it is expected to increase by 1 million – a growth of 60 pst. Part of this growth will be in small municipalities, and it is a political responsibility to have a municipal structure that meets this challenge. We know that a large and good professional community recruits people with skills that are needed to meet the elderly challenge, whether they are psychologists, ergot therapists, doctors or physiotherapists. It makes no sense to create intercommunal companies to hire psychologists. Fewer and stronger municipalities provide the basis for shifting more power and responsibility to municipalities. It is not a local democracy to have a flora of intercommunal companies where economics and decisions are ‘outsourced’. For Buskerud, it's natural to be part of the Viking state. The infrastructure is built around Oslo as a hub. The Ringerix Railway connects Ringerike and Hallingdal to Oslo. It is said here – with laughter – that it is far from Hemsedal to Halden, but with new infrastructure, Follo and Ringeriksbanen fully developed, public communication to Halden may go faster than from Hemsedal to Drammen. It is right for Buskerud to look at the axis Asker-Berum when expanding a new region. One of the reasons is that the municipalities of Røken and Hurum join forces with the municipality of Asker, and we have established a large and cross-border municipality. Buskerud has not seen Telemark as part of a large region. Our business and our labour market region is heading west, not south. The Kongsberg industry wants a faster connection to Oslo/Gardermoen, not to Skien or Grenland. And for the new municipality, which consists of Drammen, Lower Eiker and Svelvik, it is quite natural to look towards Asker and Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2084	I was two years old when we last had a major municipal reform. If we compare the patterns of living and the means of transport with those of today, we've changed a lot. New municipal and county maps and new tasks for municipalities and regions are about equipping Norway for the future and strengthening local democracy. But it is also about political leadership: ensuring an organisation that provides better services to citizens and bigger muscles to be good community developers and business organisers locally and regionally. Norway has changed. The educational revolution has led many more young people to move to larger places to take education and to settle where the labour market is more varied and the trade unions are larger. At the same time, there is a challenging trend in many districts. The same is true of the problems of recruiting key personnel and ensuring the quality of municipal services and operations. The time is overdue for a municipal reform, and the reform is a success and has been achieved through a comprehensive process. But more of the debate should focus on how small municipalities in 5, 10 and 15 years will be able to do so, for example. providing good care for an increasing number of older people. But maybe we can't expect most people to worry about what's going on 10-15 years ahead. On the other hand, long-term thinking and planning are the responsibility of the elected representatives, and forward-looking local politicians now contribute to the association of many municipalities with their neighbours in order to ensure good services for the population, whether it is the care of vulnerable children, good quality in school or care and care for an increasing number of and increasingly sicker elderly people. We experience in the debate on the municipal reform that the professional advice of the county councilmen is being questioned by the Workers' Party and the Center Party, who obviously believe that they know better. The new municipality of Senja in Troms, with 15 000 inhabitants, is a result of both the voluntary nature of Lenvik and Tranøy and the professional judgements of Fylkesmannen, which concluded that the municipality of Senja should also include Berg and Torsken – two tiny municipalities that today lean heavily on the neighbouring municipality of Lenvik in order to solve statutory tasks. The new Senja municipality is in the cast, with the city centre Finnsnes and some of our most forward-looking fishing communities and an expanding aquaculture industry. With this sense of reason, the foundation for continued viable communities is laid, making it attractive for new generations to live and work in the municipality. This morning I heard the AUF leader in Berg and Torsken believe that the merger on Senja is quite right, and that we must now see 40 years in advance. I think it's going to be 10-15 years ahead in time to see that many of our smallest municipalities will be short in the meeting with more demanding tasks. That's why this community reform is so important, and we need more sensibleness like that on Senja.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2099	Regional reform is a centralisation reform that shifts power, services and jobs out of districts like Sogn and Fjordane. In the wake of county-based management and policy jobs, organisations that currently have county offices will regionalise their services. So far, the NHO and Innovation Norway have warned the leader moving to Bergen, and several organizations have warned that they are considering following. Now we are seeing the consequences of the police reform – centralisation. Higher Education Reform – more centralisation. Municipal reform – even more centralisation. And regional reform will speed up this development. With the exception of internal Sunnfjord, the municipalities of Sogn and Fjordane have not voluntarily joined the merger. When the deadline expired on 1 July 2016, only Sunnfjord had a plan. So, state councillor Sanner County initiates. With troughs for merging and coercion, the process was extended several times. Speakers who did not obey the State were called on the carpet – and this from a government that claims to respect the municipalities! When municipal politicians make decisions under such conditions, I will call it coercion. On our coast it is so bad that Vågsøy, in fear of being joined with Selje and Eid by coercion, has gone into company with Flora, several hours' journey away and without common border. By the way, it doesn't have Sales and Eid either, but it's squeezing, squeezing – it's a big decision today, because the majority today are just busy counting merged municipalities, not seeing if they're decent. And is there really anyone in this room who thinks that Breminger is being saved as his own municipality? No! No! Furthermore, it is a great insult when the Council of State today claims that small schools in small municipalities yield poor results. State Council Sanner can take the trip to Sogn and Fjordane, which with a lot of small schools and small municipalities have delivered good results, on a line with the best in the country. So to the regional reform: this is a sad day for Sogn and Fjordane. That the Left and Christian People's Party will be closed in eradicating our state as a self-unit is bad. We did not expect anything else from the Right and the Progress Party. If the Central Party comes into government after the elections, we shall amend this Decision. And it's not going backwards. Today's decision is to go 256 years backwards! Tida with Nordre Bergenhus County should be over. Today, Sogn and Fjordane are the most powerful districts in Norway, and the only state in which new Norway is an absolute majority language. Adding more options to Bergen will increase the pressure on the new Norwegians, as well as how good intentions you initially have. A western region will move jobs out of the country. Today, entire internal Sogn depends on clusters of public workplaces that together with research and higher education constitute a unit of competence with growth potentials. That Lars Sponheim and his next commander will have some office days at Leikanger, is not safe to secure these jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2118	I have followed the work of the local reform and regional reform in close proximity, both at home and here at Stortinget. I have previously said that I am proud of the work that has been done, both by local and county politicians from Sogn and Fjordane, what they have done in the work on these reforms, and the offensive political decisions that have been made in 12 of the 26 municipalities. When it comes to the red-green parts of the Storting, I'm very disappointed in what they do for my home country. Among other things, they vote against a merger of Balestrand, Leikanger and Sogndal. Although this is a coercion, a lot has happened after this matter was submitted. Through tough negotiations and targeted work in a wide range of negotiation selections from the three municipalities, an agreement has been reached to merge these municipalities. Here's one of the things that stood in Sogn Avis after they got into the goal agreement. There were many gentle faces to see that the agreement was negotiated. The spokesman in Balestrand commented on a deal as follows: ‘I’m glad we’re on target, I wasn’t so optimistic when we started the last day of the negotiations.’ The landlord said he would advise the local council to support the agreement. He was happy. ‘that we have met with parties who have shown consideration, our voice and solution-orientedness and that we have managed to get what I believe is a very realistic and forward-looking platform for a new municipality’. The rapporteur in Sogndal was very satisfied that the negotiation agreement was in box. He was very satisfied with a reunited deal with the three municipalities and said it had known problems and questions that they had to agree on before they could proceed. These agreements are, of course, to be approved by the three local authorities, but there is a real opportunity here to build a new, strong regional municipality in Sogn. Would it not have been good if the Red-Green parties and the Christian People's Party could recognise these municipalities' work, with positive advice also here on the Stortinget? I'm just asking. It is also strange to follow the working party's zeal to merge Flora and Vågsøy before the further work with Bremander is finished. Why is the Workers' Party opposed to these arrangements to be implemented by the County of Bremen, and that they can be carried out as requested by both the Right, the Advance Party and the Left? Have they not believed that Bremander can join a strong coastal community, or do they not want Bremander to join? It's a mystery to me. The working party's reversal of the regional reform for Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane, both in Sogn and Fjordane Arbeddarparti and here on the Stortinget, is almost embarrassing. The conditions under which the Workers' Party was involved in the assembly in winter are mainly fulfilled. There will be about ten regions, the main seat of the County will be in Leikanger, and there will be far more tasks through the bulk management than what was on the table when the Labour Party said yes to the county council. Here at Stortinget, the Labour Party says no because it is no longer a voluntary merger. The working party, both in Sogn and Fjordane and on Stortinget, has become a wing party and a conversion party of the worst variety. It is not a so-called control party worthy, and I am sure that the voters have registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2145	Municipal and county reform is about what kind of society we want. Municipal and municipal self-government was fought by the peasant opposition on the Stortinget by the introduction of the presidential laws in 1837. The creation of municipalities is about transferring power from state and government to local government. Today, the most powerful for localization represents the same interests that opposed the transfer of power to the municipalities almost 200 years ago. The exception is Left, which today appears to be a party that has cut its historical roots. Today, the municipalities have three main tasks. They will provide good welfare services, schools and health under different conditions throughout the country, they will be responsible for community development, and they will be the very foundation of our people's government, where citizens take responsibility by participating in elected governments, councils and elections. The tool that municipalities have to implement is money, skilled professionals and decision-making competence under Norwegian law. This is a tool that, in some cases, represents a great resource and a power factor that can be used to sustain the rule of the people and our solidarity, participation and decentralised Norway. The municipal reform, where municipalities are forced, or threatened, to merge, is about the opposite, about the centralization of power and hence the centralization of Norway. The government's voluntary municipal reform has shown itself to be voluntary, preferably for those who do what the government wants. Verkemodla has not been worthy of a state reform. Local politicians have been threatened by deadlines, new deadlines, ongoing statesmen and new income systems that intend to punish the local government that does not do as the state wishes. The population surveys are rightly criticised for being leading, and populations would rather not happen, according to the government. In Denmark, the municipal structure reform led to a halving of the populace and the closure of 400 schools and 100 libraries. A large research project from both Denmark, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Norway showed that local democracy decreased as municipalities grew. This magnificence has fundamental local democracy. My question to the Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left is: Is there any reason to celebrate that the Stortinget today is laying down a great many local government in Norway, after dubious processes and coercion? Is there any reason to celebrate that thousands of people elected in Norway today are told that there is no longer any need for them in our democratic society? Is there any reason to celebrate that the Storting is setting up municipalities where people – if they ask them – are most pleased with the service provision? And is there any reason to celebrate that we're going to lay down county municipalities without knowing why? No new tasks of an essential nature are the state willing to surrender to the county councils. No major tasks will be transferred to your local authorities. No, there is no reason to celebrate that the Storting neglects local decisions after extensive processes and large local efforts. There is a reason to celebrate the municipalities that have resisted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2159	A lot of the discussion here today has really gone on about a matter that comes later today, which is about dental health. The majority today does not decide to lay down the county council. The majority today decides to continue dental health at a regional level. 15 municipalities may apply – on a voluntary basis – to be part of a test scheme, a test scheme that applies not only to large municipalities but also to small ones, and it must be evaluated. And there's no automation in putting anything down in 2023. Then the government that is in 2023 will come back with a new case for Stortinget. The matter should be re-examined. Dentist in the municipality does not rage that there should be dental care at a regional level. There are many occupational groups at two levels. There are nurses and doctors in hospitals, and there may be the same thing on dentistry. There's no fury, it's getting a profession to make sure that we actually get the dental service we need for the elderly in hospitals or other institutions. Then there's one thing about municipal structure, which I, as Rogaland's representative, react a lot to. The municipalities of Versand and Sandne initially said yes to the merger. Then there are some assumptions, that they're not sure if the ferry that's going to bind these two municipalities together is actually going to go. It's 45 minutes by ferry from Forward to Sandnes. It's a municipality on the side, where it's 15 minutes to the center of that municipality if someone chooses a different combination of municipalities. A majority of the local government in Forsand asked the previous weekend to allow this matter to be brought up again in their local government. It became a collective municipal government, a separate meeting, but where one was actually blocked from being allowed to make a decision, when the assumptions had actually changed. It seems that the Christian People's Party is incredible, and both demotivating and wrong. A municipal government decision lasts until a new decision is taken, a local government wants to make a new decision and is not allowed. That is why the Christian People's Party will support the proposal of the Central Party to actually postpone the Sand-Sandnes merger, precisely because there are now different assumptions on the ground than when they said yes to both local governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2173	Today, we are debating an extremely important reform: how to organise both the welfare offer and local democracy, and how to govern our regions in the future. It is a party that has been mildly said to be difficult to understand what has been meant in the matter from 2013 until today, and which also excels with its absence on the list of speakers in this debate. It is a party that has historically been engaged in tough reforms, which have not been afraid to take any tough action to organise Norway in a good way. The party I'm talking about is the Workers' Party. Before the 2013 election, the Workers' Party decided that they should say that Stortinget could take these grips. Some representatives proposed to have at least 20,000 inhabitants in each municipality. Now it is mildly difficult to understand what the Workers' Party means. The representative Helga Pedersen said in his main post that you should listen to them in the country, our local politicians. Well, let us listen to some of the rapporteurs of the Labour Party, for example. Ms Anne Sofie Sand Mathisen, rapporteur in Denmark, has said: ‘I react to the party turning around in the middle of the reform. The management should be in charge of the party which has always considered that there is a need for a new municipal structure in Norway.» Or what about Arnt Abrahamsen, rapporteur in the municipality of Farsund: ‘The management has been unclear and absent. That's a shame." Or what about Helge Sandåker from Marnardal, who says: ‘That my working party will now reverse a reform the Ap has adopted at Stortinget is strange stuff. This shall be taken seriously for the lot.» And finally, rapporteur Eva Vinje Aurdal of Ålesund has said, «For me, this is about building the country, which the Workers' Party has always been concerned about. The play on the reversal of coercion decisions does not bear witness to the fact that Ap is on this proud tradition.’ It is difficult to disagree with these Labour Party rapporteurs. I almost feel that we are facing a new Workers' Party, a new social democracy, which no longer manages and dares to stand in the necessary reforms for the country to take the necessary steps. If the Workers' Party disagrees with me in this, they can start to draw on the debate and say what they think about it, say whether they are going to vote against it today in the Storting, as it once was a state-bearing party. I dare go so far as to say that this would not happen under the previous management of the Workers' Party. It would not be possible to just sign up, disconnected by one of the most important major welfare reforms in Norway, which will shape our country 20 to 30 years in advance. But that's the way it is. We only have one state-bearing party left in Norway, and that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2207	Public activities need to be better run. But what's the problem? What is the problem with the operation of the public sector? Well, simply that the organisation of the work is not good enough. Among other things, produced by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV in the context of the discussion on the terrorist attack, as set out in the Control Committee. The point is that we need to streamline the operation of the public sector. We have to give the employees more responsibility. We have to get a management culture where leaders rely much more on their employees. We must be given local leadership – something that is totally seaworthy. We need to get professionals who meet the inhabitants of kindergarten, school, old age care or technical services, who are given greater authority, who are given greater responsibility, in line with the will of management. This is modern management philosophy, where the public has a lot, a lot to go on. So it also becomes much more interesting to work in municipalities and counties, it gets better, and it gets cheaper. Here, there are great opportunities for progress, while promoting decentralisation – the decentralisation of power and activity – and a sheep for good adaptations. The right-hand side is on the opposite side. The right-hand option is aggregation, structural changes, rather than organisational changes. The right-hand position is a fundamental error priority. I speak from experience in the control committee, where we have a number of issues that show that the public sector is not well-driven enough as a result of a lack of responsibility for those who do the job. The centre party will also discuss municipal and county structures. But for a decision to gain confidence in the population, it must be an honest process. It must be based on facts, volunteering and referenda – what the Centre Party has joined with the Trade Union around the country and built processes on. If one fails to do so, a result that creates inefficiency will create problems not only in the short term but also in the long term. One creates bureaucracy, one creates problems in all public activities. The government's work on the bundling of municipalities and county councils may not be approved in the trade unions when, among other things: be aware of the government's use of expert committees without regular public consultation, and of those who have gone far beyond their advisory role, the statesmen who both lure and threaten the philosophy of the government. It's totally unheard of. We have many good examples, including: from Buskerud and from Hordaland. Such use of the county office must be changed by a government change. The party that the center part needs to expand at the time of the election to make a government change. A new government must provide the principles and financial framework for municipalities over the next four years. This gives the local government predictability. As a result, the local councils can take up the matter again, and if it is accepted by the local council to be a municipality of their own, the central party must be the guarantor that it will also be the will of Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2224	This is a historic day, and we have to make historic, good decisions – finally, we have to adopt a local reform that will provide even better services in the future. As an old rapporteur, I must be allowed to say that I am proud of the work done throughout the country by local politicians from all parties. That job shows that our local democracy works, and it's worth fighting for. We all have our historic days. For some of us, it was a historic day yesterday, when we adopted the child protection reform. We adopted it because children and families in need of help deserve the best and most competent we can offer – and that help must be given near the children in the municipality. The child protection reform gives more power to the municipality. Children and families all live in a municipality, and the municipality's employees see the children from their infancy, they watch them before they are born – in the health centre, in the nursery, in the school and in the SFO, to mention some contact points. We know that there is a lot of good child protection in our municipalities, but we also know that the professional environments in some places are very, very small: 90 municipalities have two or fewer jobs with vocational education in child protection, 395 municipalities have two or fewer midwives for prevention, health care and school health services. For this reason, municipal reform is important, which most municipal politicians agree, even if their opinions in this room say no. That is why we are also committed to increasing the competence of child protection. A separate competence plan shall be submitted to apply from 2018 to 2024. In addition, it is important that municipal politicians follow their own child protection and, in order to do so, they must have knowledge. Annual reports on the protection of children by local authorities are therefore to be carried out and municipal learning networks and settings of competence are to be established in order to provide better professional support. But just as in the matter we are discussing here, the Labour Party and the Center Party say no to this reform. For those of us who are local authorities, it's almost incredible – finally we move power and authority to the municipalities and start working on seeing child protection not piecefully and divided, but as a whole. So these representatives will not give more power to the municipality. They say they want to wait with the child protection reform, they say yes and no to a community reform. What they want to wait for, and what their options are, is somewhat unclear – but wait and say well, they will. This is by no means new tones from these parties during this period, but it is surprising that they will now stop changes that are so clearly in the interest of children and young people. The right is impatient on behalf of the children and welcomes municipal reform and child protection reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2241	Today's debate has talked a lot about who meant what, and when you've meant it. I think that's less important. What should be important is what they mean – whether we here today should take it seriously or not. Because what we're discussing is issues of power and questions of democracy. In fact, a majority in Finnmark refuses to join Troms. In fact, a majority – an overwhelming majority – in the county of Finnmark have said no to join Troms. Then it's violently arrogant to rise above the people's will and elected bodies and say that you yourself know better what the map should look like than those who actually know the terrain. We know that the wet dream was originally to collapse Nordland, Troms and Finnmark. I would like to remind you – because it is not safe for everyone to understand – that Finnmark alone is larger than Denmark. Then we hear that this coercion is necessary for the sake of the inhabitants. So the right and the right know better, and they say straight away that they know better than people who obviously don't know their own best. That's the way it is when the desk awareness from the government is controlled, far from the life of the people involved. Why do we react so strongly to this matter? Well, because we feel that we are not being heard, because we experience and know that it is a day's work to run from one end to the other in our state as it looks today, and because we want closeness to the decisions even where the distances are great. Here I fear that the distance will lead to disembarkation, that those who are going to sit and make decisions about school, about county roads and about ferries, do not know the terrain in which they are going to manoeuvre. I fear that the hollowing out of tasks – for that is what happens – will undermine the entire elected regional body and thus undermine democracy. We're not building this country under compulsion, we're building it with confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2254	This is a great day, it's a historic day. Although Kjersti Toppe doesn't think there's any good reason to celebrate, at least I mean it. I was a former spokesperson in the Sund municipality of Hordaland. I took the initiative to start a process of municipal convergence seven to eight years ago. That's why it's a big day for me today, and it's nice to be allowed to participate in adopting this case here today. It's a matter we've worked for a long time for in my region. The background to our commitment was that we saw that both the region and the inhabitants could focus a lot on merging our municipalities. We saw that there was broad political agreement among the largest parties on the Stortinget – several years before the reform itself was formally started. Locally, we agreed – both Labour Party rapporteurs and Right Spokespersons – that the time was overdue to think about new things. Therefore, I am somewhat surprised at all the different signals from the Workers' Party – what they have signaled in the process. They have quite openly changed their mind after how the wind has blown, and created great frustration among local populace in the Workers' Party. Several have signalled the lack of leadership of the Labour Party in this process, and the media can also testify to it. In 2010, Helga Pedersen felt that coercion was necessary, so she called for the municipal reform to be too puzzled – and then Helga Pedersen took the floor again and said that she perceived the reform as overly offensive. So now they want their own reform. I wonder if today I can get an answer on how the Labour Party actually sees that their municipal reform will look like in a collaboration with the Centre Party – except that they will then discuss improving and strengthening other instruments, that they should have a completely different attitude and approach to this, and that they should have a completely different interaction with municipalities and regions, as the representative Gahr Støre has so far expressed himself. I wonder what leadership this really is. In my region the resistance was quite great as we started the process seven to eight years ago. However, when both knowledge and facts were presented and discussed in detail, understanding and willingness to consult the community have also changed significantly. The population now looks forward, they look forward to better services, they look forward to greater choice in the care of the elderly, better care for the dementia, and that unaccompanied youth students will be able to choose to go to another school to a much greater extent. These are some examples of how we imagine that we're going to exploit and create a better community for our citizens. This is a reform that has created great enthusiasm in our region. It is about exploiting the potential of the reform rather than countering it. I'm a little surprised and almost a little angry when I hear that the Labour Party and the Center Party will re-establish parts of this reform if they – against what they should expect – would get power once later.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2267	Eight years of red-green plural until the fall of 2013 resulted in a record in the centralization of people and power of the central Austland and Oslo region. Centralisation is not necessarily the cause of policy, but perhaps more of the lack of good response from the red-green. So there's little doubt that the heavy sections of society behind centralization aren't necessarily easy to find good cures for. In 2013, the left voted for a municipal reform that had two main objectives: to strengthen the municipalities at the expense of the state – just to curb the heaviest centralisation currents – and to strengthen local democracy, to shift power closer to the individual citizen. What tools does the Storting of Consultants have that are more effective than a local and regional reform that moves tasks, resources and legal power from the state to the municipalities and the regional level? In this context, it is almost impossible to take seriously the criticism from the Central Party – that reforms seem centralised because, implicitly, they do not result in the transfer of enough power and resources into the municipalities – when we know at the same time that the Central Party has barely used a calorie to contribute to the administration of more tasks and power to the municipalities than is currently in the reform. The centre party made a good local choice in 2015, among others. with a conscious strategy to criticise the lack of content and resource transfer in the municipal reform – fair enough. Neither am I and the Left happy with the sum of the contents of the reform and should have added more tasks and resources than usual. In the autumn of 2015, I made contact with the Center Party – I would like to call it a naive ignorance of where calculating policies can be. I said, as it was true, if the Center Party meant what they said in the local election campaign, the Left was more than bid to contribute to the majority on the Stortinget and do an active job to get it done. I got a clear response to the charges: the centre party had very little interest in improving the reform. Keeping things warm and winning the 2017 elections on criticising the reform was more important. I was an illusion poorer, and those of us who are fundamentally occupied by the administration of the people, by the districts and by spreading power and resources, lost a unique opportunity to really get a municipal reform with a real strengthening of the municipalities at the expense of the state – from the beginning and with far heavier incentives for voluntary mergers. Hope that such an outcome would be due to short-term prospects for the game's election prize that now gives the impression that this is the most important thing for them throughout the period – without having had the will or a real desire to help improve the content of the reform. Unfortunately, it is difficult to find another characteristic of this than the 'Game for Gallery'.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2280	This is a joyous day for our most beautiful part of the country — the country that has the best opportunities for future development, and the country that has the most natural resources. I'm talking about Finnmark, of course. Finnmark's population and the politicians in Finnmark have long wanted more autonomy, more power to take the decisions that they think benefit their territory. This means that both decision-making powers and tasks must be transferred from the central authority to the whole country – to the municipalities and to the regions. I have been selected by the inhabitants of Finnmark to ensure the best possible care for their interests. Then there are different roads to Rome, and I believe that the decision we are going to make today is an important step on the way. What is really happening is that the county level in Finnmark is merged with the county level in Troms. The county limits shall be met. We will continue to be finnmarks – there will be no political organisation to rock. What has happened is that until this regional reform debate, not a large part of Finnmark's population assumed what the state politicians did. They did not know which issues they were dealing with, or at all who they were, and they regularly expressed the desire to remove the regional level. In many cases we have had state politicians who have acted contrary to the wishes of the people, but in those debates we have never heard the Labour Party politicians argue that state politicians make decisions like 'force' the inhabitants to something, contrary to the people's own wishes. But it does so all the time – at all political levels. The youth in Alta is forced to move out of the municipality because state politicians will not expand high school. The inhabitants of Alta are forced to go to the hospital in the neighbouring municipality because state politicians do not want to investigate the hospital structure. The fishing industry in Hasvik is in danger of having to go down because state policy does not provide the island with enough ferry services. These are some examples of the so-called forced use that the Workers' Party uses as rhetoric. Just in this case, about the regional reform, North Norway was given the opportunity to sit in the driver's seat, but the state politicians in Finnmark chose to sit in the back seat: they asked the Stortinget to make the decision for them. We do that today, and my hope is that further work on regional reform will be followed up in the north, to ensure that the good trade unions built up in Finnmark are both continued and strengthened, and that Finnmark is on the offensive when it is going to have to house all the new departments in the new region. We can create attractive jobs with strong professional environments – and political weights that ensure that our voice is heard. Yes, we can even risk making regional policy attractive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2295	So today I'm going to become a resident. I have to admit that I am very happy with the representative Vedum, but I don't really want to be in touch with him. I become a resident today when the counties Hedmark and Uppland are merged under the coercion of the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Government – despite the fact that both municipalities have refused the government's offer. It's really not that strange, because what is the real population of Uppland and Hedmark offered? A weaker rule of the people? The government emphasises the cooperation that Uppland and Hedmark have today. That's good, but the logical thing would have been to see it as proof that the aggregation is superfluous. So for the government, it's not what you get together, which is important, it's the aggregation itself that's important. The merger of Uppland and Hedmark falls into the ranks of hopeless structures that are being adopted here today, all in order to save the government from a prestige team after a lengthy and costly process. Those who can rub their hands and laugh all the way to the bank are the many consultants who have lived well on the processes, and who will probably still have good times to meet as the forced marriages are to be completed. The rapporteur said that most people have no relation to their county, and that may be the case. Most people in Oppland at least have a relationship with their secondary schools, especially when they are threatened by line-line cuts and the threat of future school offers further away from the students. So after the government and the logic of the Left, the secondary schools in Hedmark and Uppland now have to improve, the flow is going to improve, and the drop-off is going to decrease. My prediction is that this will be even more demanding after a merger. Once upon a time, Uppland and Hedmark are large counties in the area, but with very scattered settlements. Geography will not be altered even if county municipalities are merged. The vertices are just going to be even more protracted. On the contrary, there will be a pressure to extract so-called synergies. Why increase the offer in a study programme in Uppland if there is an open-ended capacity at a school in Hedmark? It's going to be cheaper to send the students to the cabin than to create new classes. The centre party believes that smaller units are more efficient than larger. Being close to business, close to school, close to the needs of the different areas, is an advantage, not a disadvantage. Nor can it be called more local democracy to merge more local governments and county councils. Then there will be fewer elected people and more bureaucracy. With the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, we are now on our way away from a strong government and on our way back to the official state. "Not a bit of a bitch gets a lot done while a big one turns around," we say in Hadeland. The proposal of the government and the left on the coercion of states and municipalities is a last greeting to this great crowd from the blue-blue government. I also hope it will be the last greeting from the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2312	It's a little surprising to hear how both Tingelstad Wøien and the centre party leader, the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, talk about the municipal reform in relation to the practice that is intended to be used in voting today. I am told by the Central Party that not only the local reform, but also municipal associations, seem centralizing. It's centralization to merge municipalities. At the same time, the Center Party supports a lot of the mergers that we're going to vote for today. The logic must obviously be that it's just the central division that seems centralizing, but that logic, of course, doesn't go hand in hand. The central party representative Nordås went further and said that there is no valid argument to merge municipalities. No one! She called the argumentation to merge municipalities for rail argumentation. I remind you again that 150 local government officials have taken positive merger decisions, that almost 100 municipalities are involved in voluntary mergers, and the Central Party is voting for it. It's quite unimaginable. The centre party is going to vote for a number of municipal mergers that you think are centralizing, and I really don't believe that. They have to decide which foot to stand on. The center party says they intend to vote for a number of municipal mergers for which there are no sustainable arguments. Have they spoken to the local authorities and rapporteurs who are in favour of these mergers when they refer to these decisions in this way? The centre party has intended to vote for a number of municipal mergers in the meeting today, which they say have come about as a result of rail argumentation. Once again, there's a rather wonderful talk from the Center Party about the way you talk about voluntary community mergers that they're actually going to vote for here today. The centre party cracks, of course, you have rhetoric on one side, and then of course you vote for voluntary aggregation here, but you have a desperate need to appear like you're against community mergers. The centre party lacks sustainable arguments in its argumentation. As far as regional reform is concerned, many have called for tasks to come before determining the structure. I think to the extent that it makes sense to set up a structure, and then you get to fill in tasks – as you do today and have done – and do that job further. But at the same time, several of the parties, in particular perhaps the Workers' Party, have argued that we need regional reform, but must get tasks first. Yes, in the government's arrangement we have offered and said that we want to move over several cultural tasks, which are most relevant to the new county municipalities, fishing ports and air routes, but the Workers' Party says no. There is a lack of life and learning: one is in favour of a community reform, but not Right, and of a regional reform, but obviously not as long as it is Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2323	As a wholesaler, I usually speak to Stortinget and the job we do here across the party. Today I want to do the opposite. The majority are in favour of major and radical changes, which do not have a popular anchoring or good foundation, and they are also forced to make use of them. Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal from the Christian People's Party hassles in his line to Heidi Greni about the hopeless Center Party, among others. to say: "One might have to go back to the 1960s before the mood of the Centre party increases and we know all about what the Center Party is now against, because they're against everything." [[...]] The Christian People's Party itself does not stand out exactly as humorous and far-sighted in all matters, and I admit that I let myself be provoked by the tone representative Tuskedal well to accept a party that he should both valuable and in practice be quite close to on central issues, not least in matters of popular government and county division. But the Christian People's Party has probably thought that attack is the best defense and hammers loose on others without being able to do the right thing because they're going to vote as they do today. The way the representative Tuskedal uses the word ‘populism’ about the policy of the Central Party and the word ‘mighty’ about the Labour Party, in line with the media’s harelass against the party leader there, may show a modern rhetoric from the Christian People’s Party’s side, but it is still very little elegant, anyway. The representative of Heidi Greni, on his side, did well for why these reforms should not be adopted. The content of the reforms is not the answer to the questions asked by the government parties and their supporting parties before starting the reform process. Nevertheless, at their discretion, it is necessary to have borders and divisions that many places actually have a natural background of communication forms and population structure. Going from 19 states to 11 regions is not just wrong because regions are an unorthodox transformation that should not be right home as the name of units in Norwegian administrative structure. It's also wrong because our long-range country is just a long way off. It is pathetic, however, whether this be a parliamentary affair or not, when the Christian People's Party and the Left think they have feared the third level by going in to remove more states from the map. The centre party will vote against all the coercive actions, but for my part I would like to vote against some of the mergers that are produced as volunteers as well. The time pressure in this reform process has meant that more than one community has not really been able to decide on the option that will be reconciled in this room today. No matter what vocabularies and local authorities have been stressing about submitting something before the deadlines were set, the processes have been marked by just stress and unclear factors. The fear of being coerced with a neighbouring municipality has made some municipalities decide to join someone else instead, even though this is not what they think is right or what they want. This is not a way to ensure growth and development in the whole country for the future, and therefore this is not the day to speak out for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2344	We are not changing Norway for the sake of change. We change Norway because Norway has changed, and because we want to spread power and authority to the local level. About half of Norwegian municipalities are under 3,500 inhabitants, and many are even smaller. We see that the service provision, especially for the weakest, has many municipalities with significant challenges. The need for changes in the municipal structure has been a topical issue for many decades, and there has been a broad cross-political agreement that changes are necessary. Therefore, it is particularly disappointing that the Workers' Party at national level has provided significant counter-reform to the reform and has failed to cooperate with the Right, as they have done in major and important reforms before. The Labour Party says that they should make their own municipal reform with ‘a different attitude and with a different interaction with municipalities and regions’, as Jonas Gahr Støre has said. Well, as we say in the South. It's going to be exciting to see what it can be, especially considering that they're going to cooperate with the Center Party, which won't have any changes in any areas, but which will also reverse completely necessary changes that are adapted to the time we live in and are sustainable in the future. That's what this is about: the future of our welfare society and of our citizens. The centre party is trying to produce a completely necessary reform such as centralisation and power displacement, but it is the very opposite that will happen. By merging, we will get new robust municipalities where people want to live and can find work. The fact today is that the flow from the small municipalities towards the densely populated areas of the country is increasing sharply, intermunicipal cooperation as well. And without doing anything, as the Center Party at national level will, the challenges, and not least the centralization, will only be even greater. Fortunately, local political leaders, including from the Workers' Party and the Centre, have had a different attitude and worked well in local processes, which have led us today to adopt a reduction in municipalities from 428 to 354, a decrease of 17 pst., which is very good considering that almost nothing has happened in the last 50 years. Today we are delighted that East and West Agder will become one state, and that eight municipalities will be reduced to three. I would like to see that we had got even more, but this is a good start, and I have great faith that more municipalities will find out that larger municipalities with more people and larger trade unions will provide better and more robust services and become more attractive for both housing and business. Thanks to the government council, which has been steady in the storm, convinced that this is important and absolutely necessary for future countries and peoples.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2363	It's human to face changes with resistance -- we know what we have, but not what we get. It's human to feel insecure about change, and someone's more skeptical about change than others. As elected politicians at local, county or national level, we must try to look forward on time and at any time to propose solutions that are adapted to the time we live in. The last major review of the municipal structure was about 50 years ago. The so-called Schei Committee introduced a new municipal structure that reduced the number of municipalities from 744 to 454. The criticism of the process at the time was that too few municipalities, local politicians and citizens were involved. There is cross-political agreement that we should have the principle of generalist municipality, which means that the inhabitants are entitled to equivalent services in the same place in the country they live. Since the last municipal reform, municipalities have been given many and complex tasks, as society has changed. It requires that you have a solid, strong professional environment. In many municipalities, professional and competence environments become small and vulnerable, often a lot of responsibility and decisions are made on individuals. It's a bit of a background for today's municipal reform. In the process over the last three years, unlike the Schei Committee, one has entrusted local politicians with the process of structural change, one of which has been to involve the citizens in decisions. Today, we agree on mergers that mean that one goes from 426 municipalities to 354 municipalities from 1 January 2020. Structural changes take time, conversion takes time, and good processes are important for happiness in creating the new municipality. As a former spokesperson, I want to give the local politicians of all parties the honour of good leadership in the processes so far, and I want to wish them the best of luck after the historic decision we are making here in the Stortinget today. In Telemark, my home state, with 18 municipalities, only two of the municipalities, Bø and Sauherad, are merging. I'm overexploited that there will be more in the next accumulation period. This was just the first step, because the goal will still be to provide good services and well-being to citizens throughout the country. As a result, the reform process must continue. It is reassuring to hear in the debate in the Chamber today that that opinion has the vast majority of the parties here on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2382	The community reform was introduced as a voluntary reform. It was the neighbour chat that would reveal whether it provided the basis for a further process of possible aggregation as a final result. I guess no one wants to join that kind of process, based on volunteering. Nor are there many who disagree with the fact that the municipal structure we have had up to now is not to be able to be assessed for its appropriateness, given the increased number of tasks the municipalities have been responsible for over the years. Problems arise when the rules of the game are changed in the course of the game. In fact, when what was introduced as a voluntary process is coerced through the use of changes in the income system and coercion by the Stortinget, the assumptions on which the municipal reform was built have changed fundamentally. There is no doubt that the changes in the income system of Stortinget in 2016, of many municipalities, were experienced not only as a carrot but also as a whip to get more aggregations. When the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left choose to coerce individual municipalities, there is also a problem that this is not done on the basis of one or two clear principles. The argument for coercion in individual cases does not appear to be consistent. Rather, there are as many principles underlying each merger as there are municipalities that are being affected. The Christian People's Party therefore rejects the coercion of municipalities, because volunteering should continue to be the guiding principle of the reform. It's a principle that we don't want to deviate. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we are now getting to bigger and more powerful regions than today's counties. Some today have asked the question about the Christian People's Party has been tricked – no, in no way! We experience that we have got the government parties involved in strengthening a regionally elected level. Major regions will allow more tasks to be tackled regionally. We've taken a first step, but we're in no way in the goal. The four cooperation parties have agreed on a regional model that opens up more power and greater regional governance. But what's the challenge now, and which must be the next steps that are taken, is to get the Storting and the ministries to transfer more power to the regions. It's only when that job is done, with more tasks, that one will get a strengthened regional government. This work has begun so far. There is a need to put considerable pressure on the future if the reform is to become a democratic force. Together with the relocation of established and new state jobs, the transfer of new tasks to a popular regional level will contribute to a strengthened democracy in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2395	I hear with great amazement the representatives of the government parties who are up and say that they have almost solved the problem that some municipalities are too small to handle the tasks they have. You don't. It is not such a reform that has been implemented. You didn't take that as a starting point. You've first tried to draw a completely theoretical map, and then you've started some processes, said it should be voluntary, and finally ended up putting together some volunteers and some people with coercion. So there won't be fewer old people or more money in any of these small municipalities by merging them together. It doesn't help anything to combine two poor ones, they won't be rich for that reason. And there's not going to be any closer between the hospitals of merging municipalities, if you don't want to centralize and force people. I can take my home country, in which there are no coercive mergers. I'm glad. But we have space for 14 x Westfold within Hedmark's borders, and we have municipalities that are about the same size as Westfold, and that have 2,000 inhabitants. They can be merged with the neighbouring municipality, but it does not help if you do not have a policy that strengthens these municipalities financially, which ensures regional policy instruments that make it possible to establish businesses there, for example. broadband where the government has failed in total. Who in the world can establish the enterprise in a municipality that does not have fibre broadband? It is not built out there because there is no money to do it now, and the state has cut in those funds quite heavily. The county has halved its regional policy instruments. In policy areas, the government makes it more difficult to be these municipalities, which they now accuse of not doing their tasks. They have also transferred money through the income system from these branches to some of the richest municipalities. It's SV tumbling against it, because it doesn't create municipalities that are able to solve their problems. It also does not create valid municipalities, which the government says they are busy with. I have also noticed now that this government has intended to give municipalities regional freedom to have free slips for snowmobiles, and refuses municipalities to say no to limit personal watermobiles driving. So it's called local democracy, that local politicians should not be allowed to take account of their local population and the demands they want for their local environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2408	Reforms and changes are being made to keep Norway the world’s best country to live in. Right believe in the municipalities. That's why we want to delegate more power and authority to the municipalities. It's not about centralization, it's about decentralization -- more power where people live. When almost 100 municipalities join together voluntarily, it's because they want to use power and provide even better services to the inhabitants. I live in a municipality that has chosen to join two neighbouring municipalities. A year ago, Asker, Hurum and Røken agreed that they would become a new large municipality. It was a comprehensive and good process before the decision was taken by the three local authorities. Now it is working well across the municipal borders so that the new Asker municipality can be operational from 1 January 2020. I would like to pay great tribute to the three rapporteurs and the political leadership of the three municipalities, while also giving tribute to the rapporteurs and political leadership of all other municipalities around the country who have decided to join together, for there have been extensive processes. It is demanding to stand in front and plan for a development that is believed to be best for the municipality and its inhabitants in a long-term perspective. There have been many considerations to take and many opinions that have gone in several directions. There's also been a lot of emotion, because most of us have strong feelings for our municipality, and there's nothing new that there's resistance to change. There has also been a lot of fear propaganda, but when people realize that the municipality and the community don't disappear at a municipal merger, they get calmer. The centre party has almost made people believe it with their centralization rhetoric. It's like we're still living where we live, in the same neighborhood and in the same local environment. We're going to have the same proximity center, the school will still be called the same and standing there. It will also include the health home, the football team and other important neighbourhood sites and institutions. The change is that municipalities are growing, gaining wider environments of competence and will be better able to provide good, equivalent services to the inhabitants. Asker is a large municipality with 60,000 inhabitants, but although my municipality is what is called robust, a technical report shows that the new large municipality Asker, with the smoke and Hurum, will be better equipped to meet the challenges of the future than if Asker would continue as before alone – especially in land and housing policy. The expected population growth in our area will pose environmental and transport challenges. A common land policy for the three municipalities where housing, industry and recreation are seen in the context will strengthen the potential for a more sensible and better use of land and for more environmentally friendly transport solutions. The winners of the municipal reform are the inhabitants. New, strong municipalities can ensure better services. Fortunately, the local reform is not over today. It's in process. Someone needs more time. Right will continue to encourage and contribute with good economic incentives. Today’s government is the guarantor that the process continues and that reform work is not reversed. That is why the elections in September are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2423	There have been some representatives who have quoted from the debate today. My favorite quote so far is of the central party leader Battle Force Vedum, who said the Center Party is terrible. I agree with that quote in connection with this matter. Vågsøy - Flora is a good example. For three years there has been talk about other parties not recognising local decisions, so one goes and uses the exact same method itself and says that one knows best in Oslo, knows best at closed meetings in the Center Party, what the local democracy in Flora and Vågsøy have been about. Another example is the municipality of Skedsmo, which today is proposed to be merged with the neighbours of Fat and Sørum. There's the Center Party in position locally, and when you don't get any idea how to dispose of Kjeller Airport, what do you do when local democracy has said something? Well, one raises it into the Storting and asks for a local decision. There, the Center Party shows its true face when it suits them. Furthermore, we have registered that the Center Party today is talking a lot about that municipal reform and municipal convergence means centralisation. Then is the question we have to ask to the Center Party: does it also mean centralization in the cases where the Center Party votes for today? In more than 50 cases, the Central Party is voting to merge municipalities. Does it support centralization? Or is it that when one merges municipalities where the Stortinget uses the right of control, it is centralization, but when it is voluntary, is it not centralization? I think you'd have to start clearing up a little bit of the bypass here, and it would be interesting if the center party had made clear whether there are differences between the types of municipalities that are merged, whether it's centralization or not. The representative Hegø from the Labour Party did a little bit of good for the Vågsøy-Flora situation and the proposal as a bit of a special plural consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Left are behind, distributed as a loose proposal in the Chamber, that we merge Vågsøy and Flora today, and that Bremanger exists as a municipality of her own, and she asked for a clarification from us and the Left from here about what we put into it. From our point of view, we believe that today we confirm that Bremander continues as its own municipality, but in the comments that are on the agenda, we welcome the fact that the department is making an outing and coming back to Stortinget with an assessment that also includes Bremander. There will be useful knowledge for Bremander City Council, for the other two and for Stortinget to evaluate at a later date. But we have no problem today saying that we are merging the two, and that Bremanger is continuing as his own municipality. Finally, about Sandnes-Shipping: I think it is particularly important that the Central Party suggests that the Stortinget delegate power and authority from this hall to the Forsand local government, because that is what it does. One says that one merges under the authority of the local authority of the Forsand Municipality to confirm its decision. It's okay with local self-government, but there'll be limits to delegating power from this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2436	In the case also referred to by Mr Njåstad, the same principle of left-wing voting in the case of Flora and Vågsøy is that that process goes forward, which is also mentioned in the comment. So it's very clear. Otherwise there have been quite a number of stories today, not least from my area, but still lying above the county border to Northern Ireland. I have had the pleasure of being on some trips for, among other things. to raise that case in Bindal. I have to say that I think it is special that, after it became known, you chose to compare it with annexation of Crimea. In Bindal, I saw the meeting as very constructive and forward-looking, and they looked at the possibilities, not least for aquaculture in the area, along with the rest of the three municipalities in the outer Namdalen. They were actually very clear about that, the ones that were there. I notice that during the debate there is not much innovation. I still miss to hear what the Center Party has as an alternative. Is it continuing as it actually is today, as we see that has not worked? The central party has also been in government for quite a number of periods. It can also be mentioned that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, was up here earlier today, and he did not of course mention it as government and then health minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who in many ways was a forerunner, on which he was also quite clear – i.e. the interaction reform. There is something that has definitely pointed in one direction, towards larger and stronger municipalities, even more so than what the Left was in with the government. You pointed to the need, but you wouldn't go all the way out. We do that today. We have a reform based on volunteering. But today's debate is largely about the few municipalities where the Stortinget chooses to use its right of governance. I think it would be better to bring forward all the good voluntary processes that have really been involved in bringing together municipalities. I am among the lucky ones who are in such a merged municipality – between Verran and Steinkjer. I think that the good examples are equally important to include in this debate. Here we cultivate – and want to cultivate – the examples especially from the Centre Party, but also from the Workers' Party, which try to play as much as possible the Centre Party ‘light’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2445	Starters of issues relating to municipal reform and regional reform have characterised today in Stortinget as a historic day. I agree with them in this. It is not often that one sees a decision in the Stortinget to merge municipalities as a major reform. The last one had a major municipal reform that meant merging municipalities was in 1965, when Stortinget made its decision based on the Schei Committee's investigations. After this time some municipal mergers have also been carried out, but not as a total major municipal reform. Personally, I have had the pleasure of overseeing the project management of the merger of the municipalities of Ølen and Vindafjord in North Rogaland. This was a combination that was the result of a common political will in both municipalities, with the aim of becoming more robust and better able to provide better services to the population in this common geographical area. Set aside eleven years afterwards, I will claim – and I think I have the population of new Vindaford municipality with me in – that the municipal merger was successful, and the result is well in line with what was the prerequisite for this project. Any major change in the municipal classification will create a debate, as a rocker knows something that has been known safely and well, and that has created a sense of identity for a long time – and one does not know for sure what the new will be. In the present case, I would like to pay great tribute to both the government and the Municipal and Administrative Committee for a great and comprehensive effort to adapt the municipal structure better to a future where an even greater requirement for the provision of services to the inhabitants than what you are doing per day. I am particularly pleased that the Committee has taken account of and followed the will of the people in Rogaland, which is my county, in terms of community mergers. I would therefore like to congratulate the municipalities of Stavanger, Rennesøy and Finnøy, which are becoming a new municipality. I would also like to congratulate Mr Sandnes and Mr Forsand, who will also be a new municipality. I am also pleased that Rogaland continues as its own county as long as the county level remains. When Rogfast, which has just been adopted, together with other fjord crosses in the county, is finished in a few years, Rogaland will be welded together in a very good way, as it has not been before. The Progress Party has programmed the closure of the county level, and this level of government should have been superfluous a long time ago. Since there is no majority in the UK for such closure, I share the Committee's efforts to reduce the number of fillings in our small country, and thus the regional reform appears to be a good start on the road to improving the efficiency of administration in the country. I would once again like to thank both the government and the municipal committee for a solid piece of work both in the field of community reform and in regional reform. After a while, I feel confident that the inhabitants of the municipalities and regions where changes are taking place will continue to feel well cared for by the public administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2464	The representative Tyvand and I, we belong to the same party, so we'd probably have said the exact same thing. Stronger and more powerful regions than today's county councils are incredibly important for district policy, for a regional policy that works, and that is based on the different advantages that our regions have very different. This is one of the reasons why the Christian People's Party has worked hard to bring about a regional reform, and I'm glad we got it in place. I record that the Workers' Party is getting high and dark because one has such hopeless boundaries. They were even in the process of what they then called the administrative reform, but it ended up known in very little. As my colleague Geir Sigbjørn Toskedal said, we got the red-green government's regional reform, an opportunity that was squandered, and that became the mountain that gave birth to a mouse, as one of the newspapers wrote in the commentary position that time. I do not think there is any reason why the Workers' Party – not even the Centre Party – should become tall and dark in this matter here. Today, we are adopting a regional structure that is not my party's primary choice. Many quite correct steps are taken, but there is also something that should have been different, and I do not hide that we had got a better solution with Buskerud, Vestfold and Telemark than just the last two. Nor do I hide that it would have been more appropriate for the rest of the Eastern region. In the setting, the Christian People's Party has a note: ‘The member of the Committee of the Christian People’s Party stresses that the work on border changes between the new counties must have a broad enough framework to create appropriate regional boundaries. If the investigations show that these are too extensive for the government to deal with them under the laws in force, a supplementary case will have to be brought before the Stortinget.’ This means, among other things: – I believe, at least – that it should be considered whether the western part of Buskerud should nevertheless be included in the region together with Vestfold and Telemark. But it all boils down to – and these are the two most important things – putting in place a regional reform. We could risk a new place in the stomach of what happened last time, because stronger elected regions are so important for district policy. Vestfold and Telemark are not a large region, which we really would have had, but it was this that was then politically possible. Today, we also ensure that we still have three elected levels of government. We must not forget that the Right Party and the Advance Party would bring down the County without replacing it with anything else. So now we have started a regional reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2480	I would like to say a few words about the merger between Sandnes and Versand in Rogaland. This is a matter that has become very difficult in Shipping. The local government was split in the middle when it decided with one voice that they wanted a merger with Sandnes. Since the decision, there have been many discussions, and many have worked to change that decision. It has also been mentioned that parts of the population want a limit adjustment, so that they can go to Strand. There are many issues and arguments behind this conflict. A lot of people have probably wanted a merger with Sandnes because they're hoping that the ferry will keep going. It is now clear that the ferry operation between Sandnes and Forsand will be shut down, and that those who live in Forsand will have to drive through both Strand and Stavanger to get to their new municipal centre in Sandnes. Taking this into account, all logic is contrary to this aggregation. What we see in Forward today is a divided society where the level of conflict is very high. It all turned out this week when several of the municipal government representatives had asked the rapporteur to call an extraordinary meeting to discuss the municipal reform. It is known from the newspapers that one of the local government members who had previously agreed to merge with Sandnes would now change their voice after it finally became clear that the ferry offer would be cancelled. When the meeting was in progress, however, the rapporteur used § 34 of the municipal law and refused to promote the matter to the majority. I have worked as a lawyer myself, and I have probably used the law for my own business. In this case, however, the State considers that it should take the case on its own initiative in order to carry out a law enforcement check. He writes that the local government was probably obliged to take the matter up to voting time. As rapporteur, you are chosen as the foremost of equals, and regardless of the law, it is a moral duty to behave accordingly. In this matter, the rapporteur has not acted as rapporteur for the whole of his population. There's a split community back there. In the question of Sandnes-Forsand, we have seen the most ugly aspects of the policy. Although the Storting is today going to deal with the decisions that Mr. Forsand has made, I am reasonably sure that the last word in this matter has not been said yet. I ask the government to pay particular attention to this municipality in the future, and if there is an application for border adjustment, I expect the government to accept that application.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2495	Earlier today, I visited the Stortinget of Class 4A at Brånås school in Skedsmo. The students followed closely, and knew well that the issue of merging Skedsmo, Fet and Sørum municipalities was to be dealt with in Stortinget today. The class conducted a vote, which showed that all 22 students were against the coercion of Skedsmo, Fet and Sørum. I was told by the class to transfer this to Stortinget, and this is done. I am going to vote against the merger of Skedsmo, Fet and Sørum today – not because Class 4A said that to me, nor because I am against all municipal mergers, because I am not. For example, I'm coming. to vote for the merger of Aurskog-Høland and Rømskog, Ski and Oppegård and Asker, Smoke and Hurum. There have been good processes locally, and the municipalities are in favour of this. But Skedsmo, Fet and Sørum have not entered into the merger of these three municipalities. That is why the Workers' Party is opposed to this coercion. I have followed the debate very closely today. Then I ask the question: Where are the speakers from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party who speak hotly for the new regions? It's tame, tame as in the grave. No less than six of Akershu's Råre's representatives have had the floor today: Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, Haarek Elvenes, Sylvi Graham, Henrik Asheim, Mette Tønder and Bente Stein Mathisen. None of them have defended the new Viken region. None of them! "Glimmer with his absence," said Henrik Asheim. Yes, the Akershus representatives from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left really excel in their absence in defending the new region. It's understandable, because it's not possible to defend anything like that. Creating a metropolitan region without Oslo is simply meaningless. So now we get a region that extends from Halden to the Hallingsharvet, but without Oslo. I have not met anyone who believes this is a good idea. No one! None of the representatives of the government parties in Akershus, Eastfold and Buskerud defend this. That's exactly what's going on, because none of them are for this region. Mr. Harek Elvenes said in Budstikka on 15 September last year that he supports the idea of larger regions, but sees it not appropriate for Akershus to join other counties to Viken if Oslo does not join us. "A Viking without Oslo is not a Viking," he says. The same in Budstikka for February 23rd this year. The group leader of the party in Akershus County, Vibeke Limi, said: "I am terribly disappointed. I have fought with beaks and claws to prevent this contraction and regional reform. It will not provide better services to our citizens.’ That's exactly what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2514	I'm just going to say that there is a proposal in this case where the Stortinget asks ‘the government decided to give the mountain law the same application in Northernland and Troms as in the south of the Nordic border’, and then it says a little bit in the text. I assume, of course, that the consultation system that applies between the government and the whole thing is carried out in the mission that Stortinget gives to the department. I see the Council of State nodding, and then it's taken care of. I've heard the debate. It is clear that this is a campaign. I have also heard that there are very many red-green people who have a very close relationship with the county municipality, a personal relationship, and that attendance at the county house around and meeting with the county municipalities is something the inhabitants have supported and still. After eight years in the county and many more years as an employee in the county municipality for some time back, I have to say that something big rush to the county municipality I can't say I've experienced, neither in this region we're part of, nor in Eastfold where I've been. But I can comfort the Storting that the county roads are going to be where they are. The secondary schools, the provision of secondary schools, will continue to be where they are, and cooperation and provision can be improved. I am very surprised that some Labour Party politicians will only throw out tasks in the country without investigation, without taking into account the involvement of employees, and without the travel agency being finished to house the tasks that you throw out. We have carefully planned a series of tasks which are already there, and which, of course, continue at a new popular level, in the county municipalities, where the number is now halved. I can vouch for that. There are a number of additional tasks that take place in the regions. In my region, there are 18 municipalities. Rumforskog wants to change the county to Akershus, then we're down to 17. Moss and Rygge become one municipality. It's voluntary, it's wanted, and we're down to 16. Then there will be a new municipality after Trögstad on 16 May with 1 vote in favour and with good support from the Workers' Party decided that they will also be in a larger municipality in Inner Eastfold, together with Eidsberg, who has wanted it, along with Hobøl and Askim, who have also wanted it. Then it is my municipality of residence, Spydeberg, to which I have a close connection, and, to some extent, also to the rapporteur, who has now found reason to join this company despite the fact that they have not been misled before. That's the classic case, that they would have made sure that the municipality didn't have a common boundary, but that's the example we're just using to override. The real thing here is that the Workers' Party says that they can always think about it if they come to another opinion in a referendum, that they decided to do it, but it's just that the decision, with the vote of the Workers' Party in the municipality of Spydeberg, says that they would like to join if the Stortinget found reason to include them in this company in the spring of 2017. Then it is not in the interest of the Workers' Party to demonstrate for all the world and not to be with its own representative in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2525	I have to admit that I was actually told that we were going to be here in full today, but I'm very happy that it happened this way, and I'm proud to be able to take part in this historic decision. Today's voting is the most important thing I've been given the privilege to be in. We need larger and stronger municipalities that are equipped for the future and that can deliver quality of service to the citizens throughout. As the minister said, this reform is not about changing society – it is society that has changed. The choice is not between changing and maintaining. It's between changing and wearying. This debate has made it clear who is taking Norway further. It is really heard by the representatives who have spoken so far – the vigilance of those who are organizing Norway for the future, and the frustration of those who are against. I think it is good that the fronts of Norwegian policy are made clear in this way – the coalition of futures against the reversing comrades. With the risk of picking up a debate no one in this room is interested in, I am constantly coming back to the lack of regionalisation of municipal tax offices. Despite the fact that the number of visitors to municipal tax offices has been more than halved in the last four years, despite the digitisation of the tax process, and despite the changes in tasks, this increase has maintained an old, unnecessary and expensive structure. We could have used those resources, for example. child protection, teachers or health sisters. Instead, we are now subsidizing jobs according to the tax rate we do not need. It's not much forward-looking, especially when we know that the need for child protection, teachers and health sisters is there. This makes the need for community reform even more urgent. A few years ago, a party leader here spoke of the word 'robust' in connection with the government's reforms. Robust municipalities were just a new word for centralisation, and it is the only thing that individual parties see – not the need for more robust child protection for children than they get in a municipality with fewer than two professionals, not the robustness of the service provision for people who need special organisation. There's not so much harelation with one word, but with human life and needs. Again, we need larger and stronger municipalities that are equipped for the future and that can deliver quality of service to the population throughout. When the government was in the budget conference in March this year, I said in Political Quarter that I would premiere the minister who made sure that Norway could use public resources better, smarter and best for its inhabitants. As a premium I have a button from Harry Potter with the "Ministry of Magic" on. With today's decision and yesterday's burial of the burial order, it goes without a doubt to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernization Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2538	Then I give the floor to the representative Karin Andersen to amend a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2544	I want to make a change to proposal No. 17. Then the proposal reads: ‘Questions about bundling between Sandnes and Forsand are postponed.’ So there is a point there, and the rest is deleted. This is done because there are many who have said that they will then vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2549	When I listened to the representative Schou, who was up here talking about county municipality and legitimacy, I immediately thought that no one is measuring the legitimacy of Stortinget, cf. How many people run down the doors here. When I listen to the debate, I feel very strongly that if you just get to say an untruth many times enough, it becomes kind of true. It is said that the Labour Party is on the sidelines, that we do not have a constructive approach to the matter, that we are running with scare shots, and that we do not want anything. I must say, then, that the Workers' Party will have municipal mergers, the Workers' Party wants now, and has wanted, larger and stronger regions. It shows the process that we've had in the municipalities, and what our people in the party have done. I'm not going to be disrespectful, but I've been sitting and thinking very much today, and I get a picture inside that refers back to the 1800s, where there were some half-full Danes and decided where the county boundaries were going with us here to land. In 2017, I imagine a back room – I don't think there was alcohol there – where someone has put all sorts of weird things up in a pot and moved around well, and then one has kind of got what's being put on the table here today, not because it's the wisdom or reason that's going to raw, but for everyone to get a little bit. We're for volunteering, we're for doing this, but the processes have to be good, and there has to be wisdom and reason to base. One has to have an idea about who's going to do what, and which tasks are actually going to be input. The representative, Frank J. Jensen, says that the Labour Party does not want a Right Model because we do not want a Right Model. No, we don't want the Right Model, because we want more. We want the environment, agriculture, road administration, beauty and business development, we want to strengthen regional development funds, and not least we want the counties to be responsible for dental and public transport. So it's not that we don't want the Right Model, we want something more. In Rogaland, the Labour Party voted for Rogaland to join Hordaland. The Right and Advance Party voted against in Rogaland. It is also proof that we in the Workers' Party will. I voted for my municipality to join the neighbouring municipalities. It wouldn't be the others, so it won't be like that. But when I did, and when the Workers' Party takes a stand on things, it is actually based on reason and wisdom as to what will be the most important, not the boundaries, but what will be best to solve the challenges of the present and not least the challenges of the future in terms of service provision, business development, housing, etc. It has been said a couple of times here today that the wit is kind of evenly distributed between out there and in here, but what's crucial is how a user knows, I think. So the Workers' Party does not intend to reverse anything if they don't want to reverse themselves, out there, that doesn't feel heard. If we win the election, we do it because we listen to those who are out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2562	The President will state that any intoxication in the Chamber is not due to drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2567	Today is a brand day in the history of Norway. We're going to adopt a new regional and municipal structure, with almost 100 voluntary mergers. For the Right, who believes in strong municipalities, living local democracy, and who want a strengthened local self-government, local and regional reform is a sensible, over-mature and necessary reform – a task reform, a trust reform, a local democracy reform and a power-proliferation reform. There is a reform of strong municipalities and regions to contribute to growth and development in all parts of the country, especially in District Norway. The municipal reform is the result of a substantial change in Norway over the 50 years since the last major change in the municipal structure. Norway has changed for communication purposes. We have taken the step into digital reality – changes few, if any, in 1964 could imagine. In particular, the reality in Kommune-Norway has changed through a greater responsibility for social and economic development, for more and more complex services, to ensure recruitment, strong professional environments and quality of service. The reform of the local authorities is also not primarily a reform for today, but a long-term reform for the decades to come. We need municipalities that can handle an ever-increasing rate of change, and that can be responsible for more tasks in the future. A large majority of the population in this country also sees the same need, and not least does business. Unfortunately, the reform process has shown us a number of politicians who should have gone ahead but who have become those who are running behind with the solutions of the past to the needs of the future. At the same time, there is reason to commend a number of rapporteurs who, across political divisions, have taken on the leadership trough locally and provided good processes and results, such as in the North-Tronde Team, for example. in Leksvik, Namsos, Fosnes, Namdalseid, Verran and Steinkjer. Also those who tried, but who did not reach the goal fully, deserve honor. And there will be more trains, because the reform work in Kommune-Norway is not over today. I would also like to present Outer Namdal today, where Vikna, Nærøy, Leka and Bindal become a new municipality – but with a completely different perspective from that of the representative Berg-Hansen of the Workers' Party. I just want to congratulate you on the day. For this, there is reason for future-optimism. Outer Namdal is now taking over the position of the country's largest municipality of aquaculture. Local and regional barriers to business disappear and provide the basis for a power centre for growth and industrial development on a national scale. But not least through the economic leadership of the reform, the Outer Namdal municipalities will receive 1 billion over the next 20 years. to provide better services for their citizens. You should be able to enjoy that. The community reform has been more successful than many in this room obviously like, because the municipalities see the need, they benefit from the financial arrangements, and we move power and tasks so that the municipalities get far more opportunities to do their job in a good way in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2582	Clearly, by force, the land must be built. That's not a good starting point. I would like to talk a little about my home country as a proxy for East-Agder. Unfortunately, the county council – a surprise – decided to go in for a county merger. I do not intend to deal with that, as a representative of big business, because I am not elected by the county council in East Agder. I have been selected by the inhabitants of East Agder, and the inhabitants of East Agder have been very clear. We have conducted no less than three population surveys and one referendum. The 2011 referendum gave a very clear mandate. It was an election attendance of over 60 p.m. Yes, for summation: 32.2 pst. No to aggregation: 65.3 pst. In addition, there have been three population surveys from 2004, 2010 and 2016, showing the same result: a clear no. That is why it is particularly sad that this county, which prevented a new referendum in 2016, and which was then in favour of a population survey, chose not to follow this population survey when it came to the table. So now it's basically an agreement that has been adopted by a majority of both parties. There is also a weak agreement for East-Agder, and this weak agreement does not even appear to be being followed up. The agreement involves the addition of the county administration to Kristiansand, but it also implies the addition of state administration, which is to serve both counties, to Arendal. Today, regionalism in East Agder, which is not exactly the object of a coup d'état, writes that there are significant constrictions in the continuance of this merger. This concerns the patient and user representative, who has moved in the middle of this process to Kristiansand, in the case of Nav, who has not been clarified, and who wants to get to Kristiansand, in the case of Vegvesen, who is in the agreement, and who seems not to be admitted to any more jobs in Arendal, etc. I understand that representatives from other parts of the country are dealing with county council decisions and municipal government decisions. I can understand that. And I'm glad to know and record that if the county council in East-Agder had said no, the centre party, SV and the workers' party would have said no today. However, I am pleased that the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party are clear about the conditions and clearly that the agreement should be implemented and followed up. But I am not reassured by the comments of the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party and the Left in this matter. Those parties do not say a single word in the attitude that this agreement should be followed up, despite the fact that their representatives – time and time again – have said it locally and used it as an argument for the merger. This has gone so far that some of the representatives who in the East-Agder county have agreed to this merger threaten to terminate the agreement. So it can happen, if this government or anyone else doesn't make sure that the agreement is followed up, and that East-Agder gets its share of those jobs, that we get a rematch to the harvest. In fact, it may go so far that the county council in East-Agder changes its mind. So I want to challenge the Council of State and others: do you intend to ensure that the agreement is followed up, and that Arendal and East-Agder get their share of the jobs? Otherwise, of course, I will vote against the merger of East-Agder and West-Agder.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2605	Today we have several difficult issues for treatment – difficult because they are not just about matters, they are also about feelings, belonging and much, much more. The Progress Party has been in favour of coercive mergers of municipalities for all years, until the programme for this period, but this reversed at the 2013 national meeting. So I went to the election under compulsion, even if I was against it, and even if the program was first adopted approx. six months after I was nominated first on the store list. State Council Sanner is talking about the Law of Volunteering. He says that under the Law of Volunteering, a municipality cannot shut down for mergers. But then there are the mergers between Kristiansand, Søgne and Songdalen, or for example. Balestrand, Leikanger and Sogndal municipalities, where only one of three municipalities wants this merger? The referendum in two of the others has clearly said no. referendums where you don't follow them, by the way, is there any sense? Isn't that just a big cost? And then we get to the point that makes me really frustrated. In the Progress Party programme, we say that we should follow the outcome of referendums. If we ask the people, we'll follow what the people say. Many municipalities have had referendums, and the answer has been clearly no in most people. We can't just add to referendum matters we know the answer to, like. a referendum whether people want more bombs, or whether they want bombs around their cities. Then it's easy to say – if you're against a bomb – that you're going to follow the referendum that's coming, because it's guaranteed no. When the Progress Party then says in its programme that we should follow referendums, but at the same time say that we are in favour of coercion of municipalities, I get into the dilemma that I don't know which part of the program I'm going to vote on, and what matters most to me. Although, as I have done since 2002, I should have followed the majority of the group I have been in, this will be very difficult for me to do in this context. This issue affects many. Based on all the enquiries I've been given on this topic for the past 24 hours, it affects many more than I'd dreamed of. People have a meaning, they say clearly, and they know what they're talking about. So here I stand now and want several municipalities to join together. I want larger and more robust municipalities, and I want the county councils to be closed down. So the question is, what do I do? There is also one thing that I would have liked to have made a good impression on this matter, and which I find strange that is not included in the Innst. 386 S for 2016–2017, on municipal mergers. It's about the referendums that have been in these municipalities. I wish it could have happened in the position, so we could see what the people mean, not just what the politicians in the individual municipalities think. That's why I have to make a choice today. I might say so that my vote on this matter will be slightly varied.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2636	The programme of the Progress Party states: ‘Our representatives shall always follow the outcome of a referendum.’ This is what the representatives of the Progress Party voted on, and on which they have been very clear – for example. Hans Andreas Limi in Akershus, Ib Thomsen in Akershus, Kari Kønaas Kjos in Akershus; there are many who have been very clear on that very program formulation, and more clearly it cannot be said. And when you call yourself the party to most people, who the Progress Party has chosen to call themselves, and then when it comes to the piece, it has more confidence in a four-five pieces that sit and draw maps, it's not worth the Advance Party. It is amazing if Mr. Bård Hoksrud is now going to vote through coercive decisions – he who has been so active in the local debate in Telemark that he is against this reform, that he is against coercion, he who used the national chair and was so clear and so clear – that he is voting against his own convictions. But the round we see internally in the Progress Party shows how weakly this reform is in fact anchored. There is no broad majority for this reform in the Chamber. There is no majority for the reform at all. Jan Tore Sanner has been traveling around Norway for about a year and a half now and said that it is a massive bulk of population. There is no large number of large numbers – a large number has been pushed into place. But I hope that the representatives of the Progress Party will now become more loyal to their own voters than to the political game here in the Stortinget, because the reactions out there have been completely crystal clear. In 145 referendums, the answer has been that we have faith in proximity, we have faith in services near people, we have no faith in the centralization lever for which Jan Tore Sanner, Erna Solberg, Siv Jensen and Trine Skei Grande have been at the forefront. Then follow the program, follow the selection contract. Then it's so nice when you walk around the halls here. Right-wing representative after Right-wing Representative, Progress Party representative after Progress Party representative, Christian People's Party representative after Christian People's Party representative says that we do not understand this regional reform, but it has become that way. And as Geir Sigbjørn Tskedal said instead, no one really wants this result, but that's what happened. And as the representative of the Left in the Nord-Trøndelag said, we have forced it in place, with our seven-eight representatives. But no one wants it, and no one understands that it is wise that we should have a breakdown where we have a region from Hardangervidda to the Whaler Islands. Is it a step forward, or is it a step backwards? One shall have that region, one shall have a different division of police, one shall have a different division of counties, one shall have a third division of large-scale constituencies. It's just going to be total confusion, and it's going to have to be pushed through when there's only maybe ten representatives here in the hall who sincerely think it's a good idea. There are none of the representatives of the Hedmark and Uppland benches from the Right and the Advance Party who have said one word that now Hedmark and Uppland are to be coerced. And why don't they say that? Well, because they're against it, because they say it's unwise. This is not worth the Storting, so I encourage my colleagues: vote for the heart, vote for the program.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2659	Much has been said in this debate, and local reform is about one thing: it is to provide good welfare services where people live, now and in the future. It's about creating good communities, because the well-being of society is, as we all know, largely delivered by the municipalities. These are the ones that guarantee us the most important services in many phases of life. Right-wing want strong municipalities and living local democracies, whose power and responsibility lie close to the decisions being made. That's why we're moving more tasks to the municipalities. The number of municipalities now drops from 426 to 354. This is joyous for several reasons. Firstly, the right wants municipalities to have more responsibility and greater freedom. We want to move more power closer where people live. The State must override less, so that the decisions of the municipalities are applied more frequently. But then we have to have a municipal structure that enables the municipalities to get more tasks. Secondly, the right wants municipalities that can solve their statutory tasks themselves. This is better than what has obviously become the new ideal of the Centre Party, that the local government ‘outsources’ its services from the municipality to intercommunal arrangements. It's a recipe for both local democracy and popular control to be confused. The most negative role in the work on municipal reform is the Workers' Party here at Stortinget. The working party has been a brake block, and it's been pointed out that they have done a common cause with the Center Party. The working party has winged, and the centre party has slowed down. The bigger reason is to give credit to the 47 workers' party rapporteurs and 22 centre party rapporteurs who have worked for their municipality to join the neighbor and thus provide better services for their citizens in the future. Over 150 municipalities, almost two thirds of the population of Norway, have a desire for aggregation. This shows that the municipal reform is wanted locally. The winners of the municipal reform are the inhabitants, and it is tomorrow's generations. New stronger municipalities should ensure better services. The vast majority of municipal mergers are voluntary, and municipalities must have a reputation for the reform to come so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2674	I want to tie a few words to the municipal reform, as she looks from Rogaland. After all, Rennesø and Finnøy need to be placed under Stavanger and that Forward should become part of Sandnes. That's the setting, and these two merges are so called voluntary. But if one heard what the goals were when the municipal reform was started, and a no-looker on the Rogalands map, I think there are very few who will think that it has been achieved, was reasonable and good results. In all Rogaland municipalities, there have been very large resources, a lot of time, to have work meetings, to make appointments, to have referendums, and people have said no to the municipal reform. The state has been embroiled by a so-called state-owned process guide who has traveled around the state and tried to lure several mergers. The birthplace has always been the same: it's a positive mood in other parts of the county. When the trial director was in Dalane, he said that on Jären and in Stavanger they have such good processes. When the trial director was at Jären, he said that in Dalane and Stavanger they have such good processes. When the trial director was in Stavanger, he said that on Jären and in Dalane they have such good processes. The result was that the people said no. The community reform reminds us a little about the exercise of leisure activities without hope, possibly the exercise of orientation without a map. The centre party has submitted a proposal that we should put in an arrangement for merging the municipalities of Forsand and Sandne. I think it's a good principle that municipalities that are merged should stick together. I think it's a good principle that when it's clear that there's no longer a multiple in the local government, one should not use a fine in the local government to prevent the local government from coming together and saying that it's talking about the reform. For this reason, I would like to ask that one support the proposal that we make a commitment that the Danish local authority confirms its decision on aggregation, before it is put into practice. It will not delay the process, but it will ensure that the point that it is to be voluntary is real. I don't think even Jan Tore Sanner would merge the municipality of Forsand with the municipality of Sandnes with coercion – an uncertain future for the ferry, a municipality that is shared. Now let's figure out what the facts are, and let the facts go first. Support that proposal!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2689	I have heard throughout the debate today the government parties stress that this is a historic day. I fully agree with that. For the Workers' Party, it is also a historic day. We celebrate the municipalities and the counties that have decided to merge themselves. We support those decisions in the reform, but we are not involved in the coercion of municipalities and counties. It obviously irritates the majority. Yes, it irritates so much that they spend most of their speaking time talking about the Workers' Party, instead of defending coercion. The characteristics are many and the rhetoric is known. The most thought-provoking, however, was the contribution of the representative Henrik Asheim. He said that the Workers' Party is no longer a ‘state-supporting party’ because we are not involved in that part of the reform that involves coercion. He ended by saying that there is now only one state-supporting party in Norway, and that is Right. It should be quite fine for the Workers' Party. The concept of a ‘state-bearing lot’ is probably perceived in different ways, but according to Per Egil Hegge in the Evening Post, the concept of a ‘state-bearing lot’ is more burdensome in Norwegian than most language users know. It is a concept which, according to the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia, was created by Vidkun Quisling when, during the German occupation of Norway, he created a ‘party and state law’, where the National Collection according to German pattern was called ‘the state-bearing party’ in Norway, in the meaning of the only authorised lot. In this context, penalties were also provided for infringing or attacking the lot. This is a characteristic The Workers' Party lives well without, and it surprises me that Right wants to be the state-supporting party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2698	In such a debate there are more or less striking characteristics and quotations – both ways. It may be the dialect that does it, but I think that the representative Eirin Sund of the Workers' Party was the one who in a way said the best, just ahead, that she was in favour of municipal reform and for regional form. It might have been the dialect, but it was a very good entry point, and I wish it had shaped the debate all the way. Because I was a little surprised by Terje Aasland. He claimed that the Christian People's Party had been deceived. The representative of Aasen said that reason is on vacation, and the representative of Lauvås quoted me when I said that I could have preferred a different order. It was then interpreted immediately as if it were the government that had pressured us, or shown a reluctance to our proposals. That's not true. The Christian People's Party is not pressured, and in order to use the representative Arnstad's repertoire, we are not tricked or threatened in place. This has been a broad and good cooperation, and there are also no things that have happened between a few men in a closed room. There's been an open process, where we've been having a hard time, and we've joined each other on the blade, but there's been an open process in which the large-scale batches – let me remind you – have cooperated neatly and worked on this for a long time. The representative Arnstad pointed out that I had said that I had saved the regional level. I ask to be understood correctly. Yeah, we saved it, because nothing happened in the red-green period. It was the reform I thought we saved, because it is clear that it has contributed to the Christian People's Party and the Left. Then Jenny Klinge was very disappointed with me, but I remember that my reply to the representative Greni started with that I was disappointed with the Center Party, and I mean that, because I have been working with the Center Party locally for 20-30 years, and they are constructive – Vindafjord municipality, Karmøy municipality, I can mention in series and row – but I have been disappointed by the management and the repertoire that one runs here with the centralisation talk. So it's going to take more than one piece of fig leaf to hide that the reform has not led to anything. Just briefly: On Karmøy 50 years ago, one struck seven municipalities. It was high temperature. It's been successful. No one wants to turn around. It has led to significant developments in business, housing, land use, more well-being, more democracy, people participating, havoc processing, and it has prevented centralisation and made it a pleasant municipality. I want it to come out. I will conclude by saying that in the case of Forward-Sandnes, the Christian People's Party opposes it – regardless of the local government and ferga – but we will support the two proposals that have been made, both from the Central Party and SV, subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2713	It was Laila Davidsen's posts that made me take the floor, because she said that the county administrations in Troms and Finnmark are going to merge, while the counties are going to stand. All right. It's at best a creative play of words, while in the worst case it's a conscious attempt to lead people behind the light. Isn't it a merger to happen when the county council in Finnmark and the county council in Troms are to be merged? The regional elected body shall become one, and the tasks, well to mark the remaining ones, shall be viewed and treated as a whole, whether it be culture, school structure, boat routes or county roads. Then it's about something more than an administrative aggregation. I remember that it's not the name Finnmark I fear will disappear – it's important functions that are now in the state, and under the state's elected control. There is also reason to ask how the Finnland Law will be, not just the law, but how the composition of FeFo will be in the future. It would have been interesting to hear some reflections from the Council of State on just that, as well as how to interpret the representative Davidsen's understanding of the merger between Troms and Finnmark. I react to positions that state that it is now up to the trade union community in Finnmark to show what is good for, then you get to participate in the competition further – and thus give starters for the localization struggle, while at the same time pulling your hands away. It's a classic right-wing attitude that's behind something like that. Because while SV believes that functions should be close to people, because they are for people, Right believes that large units should compete with each other for who will eventually survive. It is as well known in the Right World that the largest is best, whether it is Nav offices, municipalities, police districts or counties. SV does not believe that the value of well-being and democracy can be measured in square meters, such as the Right Later to Believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2722	As the representative Sverre Myrli asked, I would also ask: where are the representatives of the government party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who really defend the regional reform, who really defend a merger of the Hordaland state and the Sogn and Fjordane states? What are we going to do with a new Western state that does not represent the whole of the West? What should be good about putting down the provinces of Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordne and creating one common, when there are no new, important tasks? What will Hordaland win at that? And what will be better in Sogn and Fjordne by it? Would it be better to continue schooling in Sogn and Fjordane? Will it be better and faster urban development in Bergen? Will there be more co-ordinated social development with More and Romesdal and Rogaland standing outside? Where are the arguments when new tasks have not been reached? And why can't the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party of Hordaland, the Christian People's Party and the Left respect their decision, where the premise was new tasks? The company was ready that there would be no new, big tasks, the assembly would continue as today. Why my representatives Njåstad, Hareide, Halleraker and Breivik, whom I call a little unreservedly for the compulsive goodies, the coercion of Hordaland and Sogn and the Fjordane against the county council's will, because voluntary is this aggregation not? The central party will vote against this merger between Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane, in the form of the Workers' Party and SV. In Hordaland, there are a good deal of municipal mergers that are so-called voluntary. The central party will vote for these – that is right – as they are referred to as volunteers, but it is also such that many of them have been able as a result of the government's dubious processes, where one has used the threat of coercion, financial sanctions, short deadlines and all other possible ruling techniques to get municipal politicians and spokesmen to start processes that they really don't have time for, or that they have thought were unnecessary. In particular, the County Council has been criticized for its role. When the local government in Osterøy, Samnanger and Waksdal, after a solid multi-stakeholder merger in the People's East, would stand alone, the County Council asked them to take new rounds. But here, fortunately, the spokesmen were opposed. The County Council's handling of the Hardanger process is also strongly criticised. There is a bad and long process behind the decision to merge Jondal, Odda and Ullensvang. The county council strongly recommended a new municipal government in Jondal, since the deputy, whom he calls the elected alternate, would be replaced. So it has been a long and bad process, and we have to follow closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2731	The progress party says they're for cheaper spirits. The progress party says they're too cheap tobacco. The progress party says they're too cheap diesel. The progress party says they're too cheap petrol. But the Progress Party is doing something completely different. The Progress Party says that they are in favour of referendums, and that they will let the outcome of the referendum decide. But except, we have heard, on the issue of community reunification – there shouldn't be any referendums at all, says the Progress Party. For now it is the Stortings- and Government-Fremskrit party that knows best. The representative Vosskensen believes that I am the representative of the Progress Party who has had the most honest speech of the day. She lectured what the Progress Party really means. But the Progress Party of the Government and the Advance Party of the Storting will do something completely different. Now they run from their promises, and they run faster from their promises than perhaps any other party represented on the Storting has ever done. We in the Workers' Party stand by what we have promised, we said 'freedom' in the community reform, we stand for it, we deliver on our promise of volunteering. The right hand side and the progress side don't do that. The Right Party and the Advance Party also promised volunteering, but now they deliver the goods – now they deliver coercion and whip instead of volunteering. We in the Workers' Party stand by what we have promised. We also said 'freedom' in the regional reform, we stand for it, we deliver on our promise of volunteering. That this irritates the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party, I really think of it as a good sign. The fact that the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party from the Grand Council are annoyed and angry that the Workers' Party keeps its word while they themselves run from its promises is understandable – that is how we must give these representatives. The Right Party and the Progressive Party are trying throughout this rhetorical debate to hide what is the basis of the matter, and it is poor political craftsmanship from the Right Party and the Progressive Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2744	Several of my committee colleagues have questioned why the Central Party is voting for the voluntary mergers. They cannot have followed very well in politics for the last 10–20–30 years, because we have always been in favour of voluntary mergers. The representative, Jensen, is wondering if the aggregations are not centralizing. Of course they are centralizing, all municipal mergers are centralizing and lead to less proximity to services, to fewer schools, fewer kindergartens, fewer hospitals, etc. What all the local government I've been following, and all the people's meetings I've been to, have discussed, are the benefits greater than the disadvantages? Are the disadvantages of centralisation less than the benefits of a stronger professional environment? Which side of the scale is heavier? They say that the disadvantages of centralisation are much greater than the benefits of a stronger trade union environment, which is why they say no. In some of those who are so-called volunteers, there's very great doubt about where the volunteer is. The people have been used as a torpedo for the government. The whip has been used, and carrots have been used, and there have been changes in the income system that have forced them into these processes. That's why the Center Party promises that if we come to the power of the harvest and there are municipalities that don't want to carry out these contractions, we'll of course cancel them if you think you're tricked into these processes. Sometimes when I'm in debates here in the hall, I get a little bit wiser. I had hoped I would be a little wiser given the logic behind what the government has presented here today. But no one has talked about the logic behind the regional division: why is the Viking a good idea? Why has this map been drawn for regions that have been made? No one has mentioned it. No one can tell me what is the logic behind choosing the municipalities you have chosen, for coercion. When this in the hall has been about exceptional coercion in the last two years, it has been struck that one municipality is blocking a natural merger, while those around want a merger. But what do we see? Well, those who have been chosen to be coerced are three municipalities that have said no, and one that has said yes. Those who are not proposed coercion, e.g. Bremander, is located in the middle of two municipalities, which are actually within what you have entered. There's no logic in any of this. So what's really the logic behind the regional map? What is the logic behind choosing exactly these municipalities to be exposed to overrun of the Storting and coercion merger?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2757	We're all representatives selected on a value basis. As Labour Party representative, my basis of value is freedom, equivalency and solidarity. Sometimes I think it is a bit right to take the value test on the matters we work with. Will there be greater freedom for people by forcing 1.2 million people into the Week? No, no, no. Is there freedom when municipalities are forced into a cooperation they don't want? No, no, no. Have citizens, municipalities and the state been equally involved in this reform? No, no, no. Values must be something more than words on a sheet, they must mean something. The right-hand basis of values includes, for example: freedom and participation – words. The Progress Party talks about freedom, loyalty and publicity – words. The left is talking about freedom and liberalism. This must mean something more than words on a sheet. The word ‘voluntary’ consists of two words, ‘free’ and ‘voluntarily’. It must be paradoxical for the Right-Representatives, the Left-Representatives and the Advance Party Representatives here in the Chamber – all of which have different political values than I – that the word ‘freedom’ is now replaced by ‘force’. I'm also calling for the involvement of the ‘banana’ at the position, because that's what the new Viken region is, a ‘banana’ around Oslo. It is 370 kilometres from the Hallingsharvet down to the Swedish border. Why is there no one in the position to defend it? If one is to force some inhabitants into a region that they do not want, one should at least have a good reason. I also record that the Right parliamentary leader has been absent in this debate. It's in itself understandable, for forcing Hallingdal into the Gulf might not do as well in the halling dialect. My impression of reorganisations in the public sector is that the result is being sold over. The Nav reform, the police reform and the railway reform are all, in my opinion, examples of this. We have a tendency to highlight just the benefits. And that's also happening right now. New borders on a map will solve many problems — providing dental care for the elderly, ferry piers in the north and in the west, providing roads, business development and better school provision, to mention something that has emerged in the debate today. I am also in favour of voluntary community mergers, but I would warn against overselling such reforms, because changes and better service provision do not happen by themselves. If you're going to get it, you need patience, effort, money and will. It shows the Right Party Government that they do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2768	A few years ago, we could hear representatives from the Central Party being a driver for regional reform, for strengthening democracy and for strengthening the districts. Today, the Central Party is opposed to such a reform, because they believe it weakens democracy and weakens the districts. I still believe that regional reform is a good idea. We have two parties in government that initially want two levels of government in Norway: state and municipality. We have a government that, if it had a majority on the Storting without the Christian People's Party and the Left, would have introduced an administrative model that would have led to more tasks and more responsibility being transferred to the state. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to maintain three levels, and I am happy that it is ensured through today's decisions in the Stortinget. I am pleased that we are having a reform which also means that the regional level will be stronger and better able to take on new tasks from landfilling, government and directorate. It's about moving power down. That is a good policy for the districts and for democracy. It is about building on the advantages of today’s county councils, while enabling the regions to play a better role as regional development actors. But then I have to be honest and say that the regional structure adopted today is not an optimal structure, as I see it. Then I think of the decision to merge Buskerud, Akershus and Østfold into a large Viking region around Oslo, with 1.2 million people, while Westfold and Telemark become a small region next door. It was not the solution that Vestfold, Telemark, Akershus, Eastfold or the Christian People's Party wanted, but it was the solution that the Right and Advance Party have been on to participate in the reform that is now being adopted. I believe that Buskerud, Vestfold and Telemark would be a more appropriate structure, both because these three counties constitute a common housing and labour market today, because many government divisions already link these three counties together to a region, and because we would then have a more appropriate relationship of strength between the regions of the East. That is why I am committed to the mandate of the so-called border commission, which is to take a closer look at the structure of the East, to make appropriate changes, which can contribute to the greater fulfilment of the intention of the regional reform. But I am pleased that we are now having a regional reform, because I believe it will strengthen democracy and the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2781	This could have been the case where a number of municipalities were merged, with a great deal of upsurge in the municipalities concerned, among the people involved and in this room. Instead, we have had a reform that almost nobody understands the motivation for, which started with a desire to volunteer, to initiate the neighbour talk, to start local processes, but ends up with, once the government has done a piece of political craft, to force against the municipalities that don't do what the government parties want. We also see that representatives from the Right and the Advance Party have problems standing up for what they are doing today. Very many glimmer with their absence, and to the extent that right-wing representatives are up here, it is remarkable how occupied they are with the position of others, rather than defending the grips they are now doing. And to the extent that they talk positively about the reform, it's basically the number of municipalities they're talking about, not the content, not how this is going to lead to more democracy, how this is going to develop the communities and the municipality of Norway, but that it leads to fewer municipalities, as if it were the highest goal. The question I ask myself when I hear the debate here is: why is it that the Right Party and the Advance Party seem to have to use coercion? Why could they not have bothered to end up with the municipalities that today say they want voluntary aggregation? Then we would have had a reform that had a great deal of upsurge in the Stortinget, which would have led to good processes locally, and which would have given Kommune-Norge a number of good experiences related to bundling, which would have led several municipalities to get inspired to discuss with their neighbors. Instead, we get a case that faces considerable resistance, and that is a negative case for local democracy. An example of this is from my home region, where a municipality like Leka, where the inhabitants experience that they have a good service offer, which is happy in their municipality, who wants to control their own development, gets over their ears a reform that they don't want. There is a serious impact on local democracy, and it is humiliating to the inhabitants. Let me make it quite clear: the municipalities that want voluntary bundling will receive full support from an Labour Party-led municipality, but for those municipalities that decide that they want the coercive decision that is now being implemented, we will ensure that it is complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2793	I have always been a little curious about where the representative Myrli gets his advice, so it was okay that he explained it today. He asked for party-, right-, left- and Christian People's Party politicians to come and explain the regional reform. I will not speak on behalf of the other parties, but if the representative had attended, the chairman of the Committee explained at the outset that the Progress Party is opposed to three levels of government. We only want two levels of administration. We want to bring down the county council as a level of government. The reason why we haven't done this is that the Right Party and the Advance Party simply don't have a majority in this Chamber, and in order to achieve the municipal reform, we had to be part of it. One cannot demand that politicians from parties who are opposed to having three levels of government come and justify why other parties want it. The parties that have gone for it must be able to explain for themselves. But if the representative of Myrli reads the programme of the Progress Party, it becomes quite clear that we believe that the county council is an unnecessary cost-effective link with minimal tasks, and it works mainly to reward politicians. The cost of the county municipality, we don't want to have. We do not believe that this level of administration is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2798	I said in my last post that none of the government parties spoke defended the new Viken region. I'm going to moderate myself and say that Kristin Ørmen Johnsen partly – in part – defended the new region, the new capital region without the capital that will extend from Halden to the Hallingskarvet. A lonely Busherud representative partially defends the new region. But none of the magnificent representatives of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left in Akershu defend it. I heard the post of Ingerd Schou from Eastfold, which I listen to when she talks. There was no glowing defense of the Viken region there either. Where are the magnificence representatives from the Progress Party in Akershus today: Limi, Kjönaas Kjos, Thomsen? It is completely tame – tainted as in the grave. That's understandable, because this is simply not a matter of defending. Or as one wrote on Facebook last night, are these party mergers determined on postgame or something? I am in favour of a new organisation of the Capital Region. But then Oslo has to be there. Then the capital must be there. If Akershus is to be part of a larger unit, Oslo must be involved. Something else makes no sense. If we don't want to do anything about Oslo – and it's difficult political in all parties, I don't think any parties in Oslo want Oslo to be part of any greater unity – then neither should we do anything about Akershus. We have a responsibility as members of the Norwegian National Assembly. We can't sit in the back room and figure out new maps and draw new boundaries a little bit at random. Either we're going to do this properly and really, or we're going to leave it. In my 16 years at Stortinget, I don't think I've witnessed any worse decision, no worse decision than what seems to be the decision on the Viking region today, a decision completely without goal and meaning, completely remote from reality and completely without support of the population. And to the representative of Keshvari, I would like to say that, fortunately, it is not the Progress Party's programme we have to deal with here today. I can make it clear that it's Prop. 96 S for 2016–2017, Changes in municipal structure, and Prop. 84 S for 2016–2017, New breakdown of the regionally elected level, which we have to deal with here today, presented by the Right–Fremskritsparte-Registration. Then I could at least wish and expect some posts that defended the remarkables that have been proposed here. With half an exception from a Busherud representative, no one is defending it. I understand that, because this doesn't have to be defended.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2809	I can continue where the previous speaker is not speaking, because no one defends the remarkableness of my country and the region of the West, where one has to merge Flora and Vågsøy with a difficult municipality in the middle. It's completely insane, to say it mildly, it's doing in Sogn and Fjordne. I thought I'd say a little bit more about the regional reform, because there are some people today who ask if the central party is not for this western region with Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland, and refer to the county's decisions in the two counties and say that we must follow them. But the one thing that forgets about it is that the two county councils impose conditions to say yes – clear conditions – that the state council has so far not responded to, except that Lars Sponheim and his next commander will have some office days at Leikanger. Nothing about the leader group going there, nothing about how many to add there, or how many more there might be, nothing in the world. Just air! That's what we've got so far. I read with the voltage setting from the plural, because I thought there must be something here. But there is nothing to answer the demands of the county council in Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane. The demands are made by all parties, by the Progress Party, by the Right, by the Christian People's Party and the Left and the rest of the County Council. But do we hear someone here today from the pluralist parties asking questions about this? The left is not even in the room – yes, now I'm talking about the Left from my group to merge. I see the representative Elvestuen sitting there. But we don't belong to anyone who defends what they've been able to do. Now I hope that the Council of State, which will follow me in the pulpit, can clarify whether he will comply with the requirements that have been imposed. Maybe he can say something about what's going to be so much better for Sogn and his Fjords when you just get to put them together to North Bergenhus County, which we had 256 years ago. It's actually going backwards into the future. The government has had four years to outsource tasks. She's done no harm. Don't come and tell me about wedding rights and something petty. It doesn't mean anything at all. Sogn and Fjordane Energi are another condition that is set, worth 5-6 billion. Nord-Trøndelag managed to transfer its energy plant to the municipalities. There is no possibility in Sogn and fjords because of the pre-emption rights of BKK. Is it going to sail into a new region? Are Sogn and Fjords going to give away 5-6 billion to get the Sponheim, which is going to sit on Leikanger as a countyman? Well, that's a very bad deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2822	I must first be allowed to settle a small matter from my own post, where I said that Rakkestad would go with Spydeberg, Eidsberg, Ashim and Hobøl. It wasn't supposed to be Rakkestad, it was Trakkestad. Then it's fixed up. I have been asked a few questions in the last few years about whether I am disappointed with the Labour Party's behaviour. To that I have said: No, I will give tribute to the rapporteurs of the Labour Party locally, who have done a great job. But I have to admit that I am surprised at how the Workers' Party has behaved nationally. The Labour Party today appears to be a little pale shadow of the Centre Party in the debate on municipal reform. We hear that the Labour Party on the one hand says that they are very much in favour of municipal reform, but then they absolutely criticize everything. Does the Labour Party think anything would happen if the four cooperation parties had not started a municipal reform? No, then we would probably keep going as before. It is said that the municipal reform involves centralisation. No, we actually have some experience with the municipal mergers that have been. There are larger trade unions, no longer depending on individuals, resources are moved from management to service production, and a decentralised service provision is maintained in municipalities. These are the experiences of the municipal reform – the very opposite of centralisation. I am pleased that the Central Party is also voting for the voluntary mergers today. We have almost 100 mutual agreements. If the Central Party believes that municipal mergers are centralization, does that mean that one is in favour of centralization in almost one hundred voluntary agreements, but then one is in favour of ten? It seems a little funny, to use a parliamentary expression. So finally, in a situation where the number of municipalities is too small for the tasks for which they are responsible, in a situation where we see that the differences between municipalities are increasing, how many municipalities do not have the capacity, the competence to provide the citizens with a good service? You're criticizing, but you don't have an alternative. What is going on with the population, what is it about leadership in a situation where we know that the tasks and responsibilities will increase, and where we need stronger municipalities to ensure the good services for the inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2835	The centre party has the option, and that is to look at organisation, culture and management within the public sector, not least within municipalities and county municipalities. It is a unique opportunity for progress, but it assumes that one gives authority and responsibility to the professionals who are employed there and who meet their inhabitants. It assumes that one more trusts his own employees. It's quite interesting that in this debate I haven't heard a single post from one of the former business parties of the Right when a person develops what's experience in private business, that's what I've just said, that one has to trust his employees. And the employees must work according to the attitudes and visions of the management. It's pretty interesting that it's completely absent in today's right, but that's what the Center Party is dealing with today. There are outstanding opportunities in this area, and it is not only within municipalities and counties, but in all public activities. There is so much waste of money and people today that reforms need to be introduced here. It's interesting that the right part is not on the right half of the path at all, and there's a lot of people that notice. If you want to change the municipal structure, you have to have honest processes. It must be facts, volunteering and referendum. People would then agree or disagree with aggregation, but it went well, and trust between people and leaders would stand. It hasn't been like that now. It has been mistrusted, and that is the worst basis for running such processes. An example of this is the Lower Eiker in Buskerud, a municipality with almost 25 000 inhabitants, in the middle of the butter island in the central east. There the municipal government first heard about the people, but turned around after the state budget for this year was presented. The central party is therefore pleased that the Workers' Party is against coercion. This must necessarily apply also to those local governments that have voted against referendums or felt pressured by the whip of the Sanner and Jensen Councils and the behaviour of their countrymen. It is shameful that the statesmen have gone forward in such a way as I see in the example Lower Eiker, and presented economic calculations that are not rooted in actual relationships. This creates distrust. It creates a situation where it is necessary after the roll-out election, in the event of a change of government, that the local council takes up the matter again. If the local government says that the municipality will be present here, the central party will certainly support it. You can't go forward with whips and carrots the way you've done. It creates distrust, and it creates the worst basis for future municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2842	It was interesting to hear the representative, Lauvås, who says we were so angry, we were up from the opposition. At least I'm not going to be mad. The contributions of the previous opposition politicians were not quite much fun and smile over either. It was the exact opposite, to say it carefully. There is no doubt that I do not want counties or regions, nor does the Progress Party. It's our primary policy, but it's actually the way to negotiate an agreement and get some solutions, and that's what the Progress Party wants to go in for. What exactly is this debate about? It may sound like it's just about the municipalities, but it's actually about the inhabitants who live in the municipality, providing the best services to the inhabitants, and making sure that when you need help, when you need services, you get the best services. And there's going to be good expertise among those who're going to deliver the services. This week, Telemark's county has had a meeting. It was a two-day meeting, and then it was one day to go home after the meeting. One day we dealt with matters, and one day there was safari in Tinn to look at the world heritage. It's fantastic, but I don't know if that's what you should spend the taxpayers' money on – running that way, traveling by boat and train and being at the Industrial Workers' Museum. It's really nice and nice, but maybe that's not how you should spend the taxpayers' money. It may be a good thing to be with Westfold, which is a little different about how to organise and organise county meetings, perhaps spending money on the good services of the population instead of spending money on travel – that state politicians should take care of taxpayers’ money and enjoy safari to look at exciting things. It is of course to put it a little on the head, but I think it is good to see how to drive the county municipalities around. And is it like there's a huge exposure out there, that it's the big torches to keep the county council? I, as a state politician, am at all levels and may even be inhabitable today, but I actually feel that it's not the great commitment out there to preserve the county municipality. I heard the representative Terje Aasland instead, when he said it had been forced by Vestfold and Telemark. Then I will read from the hearing opinion of Telemark County, paragraph 2: ‘The negotiated intention agreement between Vestfold and Telemark is characterised by a common desire for balanced development in the two counties and provides a good basis for the further process. However, in order to be able to carry out significant increased tasks in an appropriate manner, Telemark County nevertheless considers the merger of Buskerud, Vestfold and Telemark as the most recent solution.» So this isn't coercion. I think everyone should read the decisions before going out and calling it coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2862	If I don't remember completely wrong, those who have been best known for going on safari tour are actually people from this house who did it in connection with a meeting abroad. The council was up in the pulpit and said that the Workers' Party is absolutely critical of everything. What the Workers' Party is doing is not criticising, but we are against it, and we believe it is absolutely essential that the tasks are in place. So now we're going to have a new sample of what the regions are going to do. The representative Schou said earlier today that she could not understand that the Workers' Party was not concerned with the facts and getting things investigated. If there's one thing that's maybe figured out enough, it's just what kind of tasks the regions can get. So now you're going to make regions that nobody wants out there, and you don't want those who want to vote on this in here today. I think it is important to listen to the representative of Navarsete, who said something important here instead. She said that in those states where one wants to merge, it was a prerequisite that it should follow tasks with. This is something that I know that all the states, with different parties, have had dialogue with the Council of State that for them this is very important. Here you coerce, and the tasks that are clearly requested are not included. It is not the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's party that are calling for the tasks. It's the people out there who are asking for the tasks. It is those who are going to sit and govern these regions, who are asking for this to be in place. I would also like to inform you of what the Workers' Party is going to do today, in connection with the proposal from the Central Party to postpone Sandnes and Forward. We believe that there has been a process, just as it has been elsewhere in the country where they have had a local process that they own themselves. One might say a lot about the process, but both the Shipping and the Sandnes have agreed to merge. There is no doubt that there has been a lot of control at home lately, with a quay that has both – I was about to say – been laid down and come back again. But as I have understood it, the department has now clearly stated that one can drive a ferry privately or commercially, and that the quay that was to be demolished earlier this week will no longer be demolished. Then we believe that there is nothing new in terms of the process that has been, which means that we will postpone the merger when both the Shipping and the Sandnes in the course of the process actually said yes. So we're not going to vote for the postponement proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2873	When I heard the message from the representative of Lauvås, I started thinking about Komische Ali. Lauvås said, "We stand for what we promise." Then I think everyone who has followed this debate would like to go in and see what the Labour Party promised in 2013, what they opted for, what they had as a programme formulation, and how they now express themselves in comments and from this pulpit. It is as far from the truth as possible that they stand for what they promise. It's the 180-degree reverse operation we've witnessed for the last four years. The representative Toppe brought a greeting to me and three others from Hordaland and called us the "convicts". She asked us to explore why we are going in to merge Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane. Since she calls us the fornicators, it might be tempting to call her Princess Vilikke. I thought that I had to check if I had misunderstood my own state and the hold there, and went on the website of the county municipality of Hordaland, where working county spokesmen Pål Kårbø smiled on a picture and said: ‘Hordeland and Sogn and Fjordne one step closer.’ He says he is pleased that the Council of State will sign out a case by case, and he ends by saying: ‘The terms and conditions of the plan are as follows – point by point – in the process of being met by the Storing and Government.’ We see this as the state, both Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland, which makes some demands that they now perceive are met point by point. It's a little special to listen to the Center Party be so critical from this pulpit when we know that the Hordaland centre party actually went to elections in 2015 to join Hordaland with other states. Benthe Bondhus, a group leader, was selected in the state selection and plural position because she chose to merge states. So she gets a broad side from her own here that one doesn't know its own best in Hordaland, because it knows the Center Party in Oslo much better than the Center Party in Hordaland. The same can be said of Jenny Følling, who in this reform has stood out as a tree. She has negotiated well on behalf of Sogn and Fjordane County Municipality, but meets with the resistance of her staging representative, Navarsete, who is speaking directly against what her own county spokesmen have done in a good way for Sogn and Fjordane County Municipality. Making fun of – and that a neighbor has paid several billion for – getting Lars Sponheim thought I was a little special. I registered that Christiano Ronaldo went for EUR 96 million when he went from Manchester United to Real Madrid. That Sponheim should be worth a lot more than that – to Sogn and Fjordane – will be a little exaggeration from the representative Navarsete’s side.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2896	Lars Sponheim may well be worth his weight in gold – that is possible. The representative Myrli had in his post a long harange with the outspoken voice from this pulpit, and I would like to comment on the representative Myrli was in. There was no doubt that we spent some time on the map, as he was in a good monn, but the Workers' Party also signed out before we even entered the final phase of this. The party leader was absolutely clear that this was not the time to be involved in looking at anything. As rapporteur of the case, I was more than willing to take a round on this topic with the Workers' Party. Then the representative of Myrli is quite right in the following: No party in Oslo wanted a merger with Akershus. Akershus made that claim, but there were also some other possibilities. I explained a little earlier today to the processes in Eastfold and that it gradually became the country and became what someone calls a ‘banana’. I think the Viking is also going to be a functionally good region. However, what is mentioned is also included, which is also clearly stated in the comments on the decisions being taken today, that an expert committee will be set up. This means that it is not only in the area that one will look at border adjustments, but also in other areas of the country. It is a little surprising that the representative Navarsete, the gear, and with a good vote, calls what is due to tasks, ‘småpjask’. Maybe she hasn't had time in the last few days to read what we're actually deciding. The Labour Party, the Center Party and the SV come with far fewer things than what we actually decide today. Of course, it's more than what was in the government's notice, but it's definitely a quantum leap in relation to what's due to the tasks of today's county councils. I believe that County rapporteur Jenny Følling, as also the representative Njåstad mentioned, will be able to endorse many of the – perhaps all – requirements mentioned here. And as for how to rig the power plant between Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland, this hall has strictly nothing to do with it. And you can figure that out through those schemes. I believe that what has emerged in view of tasks that have been requested is definitely within the scope of what has been requested in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2907	I record that the Council of State is very concerned about all the small municipalities we have here in the country, and for some of the small municipalities there is reason to be concerned. But small municipalities are not a uniform group. Some people are doing very well, others are not doing very well. If the state council had looked up from the iPad when the Labour Party representatives are talking, he would have heard what our alternative is. We will also stimulate voluntary mergers for the small or large municipalities that need it in the next period. When you from the Right ask very much what the Labour Party's policy towards the small municipalities is, it's natural to confront that question again: what would the government do with it if you think it's a problem that we have small municipalities here in the country? After the structure adopted this evening, we still have a very diverse municipality map in Norway, with some very large municipalities and still very many small municipalities. The debate today has revealed a broad consensus on voluntary mergers and wide disagreement on the use of coercion. The Council of State has tried to answer questions about the criteria underlying the use of coercion, and he says that it concerns enclosed municipalities. I refer you to the statements by the representative Vosskensen about the cases in the South. I could add Bindal. It doesn't look particularly embedded on the map. The same applies to Torsken, at Senja – there is no enclosed municipality either. In the case of the Sogndal merger, two of the three municipalities involved were opposed. Concerning Skedsmo, Sørum and Fet, only one of the three municipalities involved in that constellation. So what the council says is completely wrong. In the case of the region, there are eleven counties involved in coercion, and we have four parties that each seem to think that the solution is really bad. Together, they still think it is wise to trump it through, probably with a few voices' overweight here tonight. The debate has also confirmed that the so-called regional reform is part of the work of the Right Party and the Progressive Party to bring the county down. Ingard Schou said that the Right went to the election to put down the county council. Today they have received half a win. Then the speculations about the vote today show that the government's overrun of local democracy and state politics creates internal unrest in the Progress Party. It's a broken majority. This is not a good template for how to run a country. That it falls to the right of the chest that the Workers' Party disagrees with them in the use of coercion, is now on their account, but one could solve it differently by listening along the way or at least trying to justify the coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2920	It strikes me, when I hear this debate, that you might have gotten a little bit more out of this if the parties that are so opposed to what you're doing now had actively participated in the process. Then you would have been able to record this at a much earlier time than the day we were going to debate. I take the floor because Sverre Myrli has challenged me on this with the regional reform in Oslo and Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold. Firstly, I would like to remind you that we had a regional reform, which ended in 2010. Then there was a red-green majority. All the parties in the government were for the reform. There were two supporting parties on the Stortinget which were both for the reform. There were 19 county rapporteurs, 18 of whom were in favour of the reform. And what came out of it? Nothing – you couldn't cut through, and one of the main points at the time was Oslo. That's how Oslo will always be a little bit different. They're organized in a different way. They are both county and municipality and have a completely different organization, so you have to be able to live with it in the middle. With regard to the large population of the Viking region, the distance between the Hallingsharvest and the Whaler is a hoax. But there are, in fact, 1.2 million people in this region who are connected to the rail network in the East. It's going to go trains to the Honey Foetal. Every ten minutes, there's a departure from Drammen to Oslo. Trains go to Halden and Fredrikstad and tie them together. It is a common housing and labour market. What makes it a large area is that one of the prerequisites for this reform is not to break into existing states. The counties are used as they are, and Buskerud has a large area, while Eastfold and Akershus have a relatively small area. You can hare with it, but it's actually a pretty powerful region you're building. I was perhaps more concerned that someone in this room would say that it gets too powerful. A large region with 1.2 million inhabitants, with several universities, with well-educated people, with agglomerations, close to scientific institutions, with cultural institutions: this is a powerful region. But if you're going to talk about the Halling scarf and the whales, it seems so ridiculous, but you can't forget that the core of it is a pretty densely populated area, and that's what it's really about. Then you'll be able to regulate the limits in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2934	It is still one of the most important things that remain after this debate is that both Councils have said that this is just the first step. Yes, not only that, but the Right should be the guarantor that the municipal reform continues. Then the obvious question arises: what is the goal? How far down are you going? What is the natural number of municipalities? Do you have to go down to 100, as the NHO has wanted – is that what the goal is? Is that why it's going to continue for the next four-year period if the blue-blue ones keep going? Who is it that can expect coercion in the next round? Is that when you're going to take Bremander, who today ends up between Vågsøy and Flora? Is that when you're going to take the Highlands and Overhalla? Is that when you're going to make the Great Foss? There are questions it might be interesting to get some answers to in this debate. It is true that the red-green government presented the regional reform in 2010. We put it away – it was an unwise reform. It would have been an advantage if the blue-blue had also thought about it and reflected over it, instead of sitting and drawing illogical maps in a negotiation between themselves, as they have done in the past weeks and in the last months. One would believe in itself that the state level did not mean anything to the Right and the Advance Party, but it is almost touching to see that some progress party representatives come up here and congratulate themselves on the fact that their states are not being merged, but that it is going to be allowed to continue as their own states. I must also say that I find it disappointing to record that the one that may appear to be the most centralist today is actually the Christian People's Party. They have been one of the most eager in the pulpit today, not just to talk about that we need to continue the municipal reform, but also to attack the centre party. Then there is also a question of how many more municipalities the Christian People's Party should be involved in merging. How much more will the Christian People's Party be doing in this area? I see that the council has signed up, so I have a couple of things that I think he might want to answer. One is the questions that have been asked, among other things. by Liv Signe Navarsete, on how he believes that the conditions imposed by Agder and by Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland should be fulfilled. How does he look at them, and what will be done with it? And then I have to say that it is wrong when the Council of State says that there has been a positive development in the municipalities that merged in the 1980s and 1990s. It's a statement I believe the Council of State has no evidence for. There has been a negative population development in 28 of the 39 municipalities, and there has been an internal centralisation in several of them. It is strange that the Right clearly believes that what is being coerced today cannot be touched, but that the next period should be able to continue the municipal reform towards the municipalities that have now adopted seaworthiness. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2949	There's no time for speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2954	There has been a special debate to follow, because there has been a touching concern for local politicians here. There has been a big debate on what process has been around the matter. There has been a lot of focus in the contributions from the particular Workers' Party and the Center Party. But what I miss in the debate is the focus on the people. What is it that actually benefits the inhabitants? For the Progress Party and me, it is far more important to have good services for the citizens than to have the most local politicians possible. Because you can ask yourself the question, what is local democracy? In this room it is clear that the Workers’ Party and the Center Party believe that the more local politicians you have, the more councillors you have, the more municipal leaders you have, the more it is a real local democracy. For me, local democracy is when the individual makes the most of his own life, but it is clearly the Labour Party and the Center Party disagree. But I also have the advantage that I am a former local and state politician, and I remember very well when Åslaug Haga in his time made the regional announcement. Then the Central Party wanted to go beyond what we do today with the regions. At that time, the aim was to go from 19 to 6–8 regions. The fact that the then red-green government did not have the same power of action as today's government does is better. As I said, I have also been a local politician, in Moss, and there has been the Workers' Party – in both Moss and the neighbouring municipality of Rygge – the party that has really gone into the brink of a merger, even though it has sometimes been unpopular. Yes, the Labour Party even went so far that even in the opposition, they aged the budgets with significant savings on a municipal merger. But you can talk about more recent times, too. The county rapporteur in Østfold, Ole Haabeth of the Workers' Party, wrote the following words in several newspapers in April 2016: ‘The municipalities of the East are willing to create larger regions, take more responsibility and strengthen their role as a targeted community developer.’ So it is the opinion of the House rapporteur in Eastfold, and then it is interesting to hear the representatives of the Labour Party and the Central Party here in this Chamber from Trondelag and Finnmark, who think they know clearly better than their own country rapporteur in Eastfold. Ideally, neither the Advancement Party nor I want any regions or counties. We think it's a completely unnecessary term, but it's very good that we've gotten a good deal on the road by now being able to go from 19 to 11. We can at least halve, and I look forward to the day we're also rid of the eleven.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2974	The argumentation starts to get thin when the Progress Party argues too forcefully that there will then be fewer politicians. Some people mentioned Comic Ali here earlier in the debate, and it probably takes cake in that way. I want to drop off my colleague from East Agder, Inbjørg Amanda Vosskensen, a little visit. She is, in fact, the only representative of the Progress Party who takes care of the party's soul, for which the party is known, in terms of both referenda and democracy. It is interesting in this way, while the other representatives are fleeing from their policies in expressive speed and it seems convenient to submit to the direction of the Right. Good services is a repetition of the debate. There is no evidence whatsoever that smaller municipalities provide less services than larger municipalities. I also notice that someone is trying to push weak groups in front of them in that discussion. It has been strongly refuted by, among others. the stakeholder organisations of these groups. They are in Harmony when this argument is used, because they know – and we all know it – that this is not true. These are not very good offers in the large municipalities and very bad offers in the small ones. No, rather the opposite: it can often be the opposite. There's no relationship here. The main reason why I took the floor was that I wanted to repeat the question to the Council of State. I'll give the council a new chance. I understand that the Council of State has received many questions and challenges here today, and that may be why he did not answer the question I asked in my previous post, and that the representative Arnstad and, to the extent that the representative Navarsete has also been involved. This applies to the underlying assumptions. I would like to take up the assumptions underlying the agreement as a majority of the county in East Agder and West Agder have agreed to, among other things. means a significant number of jobs for East-Agder, in the case of the State jobs to serve the new merged state. Will the Council of State remove the stumbling blocks – I am talking about Vegvesenet, Nav and other types of jobs – or will the Council of State still not provide clear answers to that question and leave the prevailing uncertainty in the future in South Africa?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e2987	It is quite interesting that the issue of state jobs comes from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. It is this government, along with an agreement with the Left, but also with the support of the Christian People's Party, that has moved out state jobs to Arendal. The county was moved to Arendal, and now the County Joint Administration was moved to Leikanger. Much more State jobs have moved out in these four years than in the previous period. I notice that Marit Arnstad questions the results of previous municipal mergers. She should then read the report from Telemarksforschering, where it was established that a larger professional environment, resources were transferred from management and administration to service production, and a decentralised service provision was ensured. That's the experience from community mergers. So I guess the Center Party today supports about three out of four aggregations. At least voluntary mergers are supported, and this must mean that the Central Party also believes that it makes sense, and that local politicians – including those from the Senter Party – do this because they want to ensure good services for the citizens in the years to come. I have challenged the Workers' Party for several rounds on what their alternative is to meet today's and tomorrow's challenges to the most vulnerable among us, to ensure that we have good health and care services in the municipalities as there are more elderly and more of the older. Then the representative Helga Pedersen answers that the option is to continue with incentive schemes for municipal mergers. Well, that means that the Workers' Party believes that larger and stronger municipalities are important. But is it then about the incentive schemes that have been in this four-year period, or are you going back to the way it was in the red-green period, when nothing or nothing happened? The reality is that this type of reform also requires national leadership. It shows the cooperation parties, and local politicians show good local leadership. But I understand that there is a great deal of frustration among many of the central local politicians of the Workers' Party – who have also expressed it in the media – about the fact that the Workers' Party is not to be recognized. I also understand that part of the Workers' Party's voters feel uncomfortable by appearing as a shadow of the Centre Party. To ensure strong municipalities for the future, it also requires national leadership. We now see the results, where there are about 100 municipalities voluntarily joining together, and where the Stortinget intersects in some individual cases, in line with the signals that the Workers' Party also gave as late as spring 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3002	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3007	Force is not modern. Changing the whole map of Norway for no reason, in a way that no one wants, is not leadership – it's headless. If you want to take account of the most disadvantaged, you have to listen to their organisations, who have warned strongly against some of the proposals that the government is working with, for example. in the case of aids and permanent work. It's a fact that the services in many of the small municipalities are as good as in the big ones. Someone gets big and weird, and the Viking is bad. The representative, Hoksrud, hassles with what happened in Telemark County, where you've been on safari to see what you're responsible for. I can then inform you that representatives of the Progress Party have also been on safari, as they were to be at the climate conference in South Africa. They could tell VG that they had seen a giraffe, but they thought that as politicians they were responsible for national parks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3014	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3019	The representative Njåstad did not answer my challenge, when I called for the arguments from him and the government party to merge Hordaland and Sogn and the Fjords when new, important tasks were not coming. But he has Googled up to what representatives from the other party have said and said about the matter – and it is a little troubling. The county council in Hordaland has – quite in line with what the centre party stands for – in point No. 2 in its decision that if the Storting finds no basis for transferring important societal tasks from state to regional level, the County Council will continue and will be further developed as a state from 2020 onwards. When a point is made that the Christian People's Party in Hordaland, by the Vice-Chairman, thinks that the government meets this requirement, my comment is that unfortunately it says more about the Christian People's Party than about us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3032	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3038	I asked for the word again because the left-wing spokesman, André N. Skkelstad, is quite as approximate to the facts. In the question of the capital region, he said something such as that the Workers' Party had signed up. In fact, the Workers' Party twice this period – twice – has proposed a separate process for the Capital Region in which Oslo was to be involved. It has both been downgraded by the bulk of the population, including the population. with the votes of the Left. And then we're there. Either we get to do this really and really, or we leave it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3045	The representative of the Labour Party, Mr Lauvås, has broken the limits of political propriety in today's debate. He claimed in his post that the Workers' Party has kept to what they promised their voters in terms of the municipal reform. That's not true. The Workers' Party has programmed that when neighbouring municipalities have spoken together and there is one municipality that opposes a wish to merge, Stortinget can intervene. Then, two years after the Workers' Party had adopted its programme, Helga Pedersen stated in the evening post that the referendum should now be taken into account – despite the fact that it was very low turnout – and that municipal mergers should take place exclusively on a voluntary basis. The reason was that the program, which was then two years old, was written at a different time. As soon as time changes in the Workers' Party. No, it's not the times that change, it's a working party that turns the cap after the wind, because the Workers' Party has lost its strategic direction, of fear of the Center Party. The working party has become a centre lot ‘light’. Then to the representative Lundteg. When the largest representative of the plan economy starts talking about business, there is reason to listen. [[humming in the hall]] Community reform is also about taking responsibility. The size has decided that the citizens of the Kingdom are entitled to the same welfare services of the same quality. When this does not happen, Stortinget has a responsibility to do something about it. It's called leadership – but that kind of leadership is completely absent from the Center Party and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3058	The representative, Geir Sigbjørn Tskedal, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3063	It was the representative Arnstad who – if I understood it correctly – thought that we were participating in the greatest centralisation reform of the time. That's a little weird, because we're going to vote the same way today. We're both going to vote for the volunteer line, so I feel like we're on the same line. What the Center Party is about to do today is to join 100 municipalities on a voluntary basis. We have to, too, so we're probably in the same boat there. It was quite right, what the representative said, that the Christian People's Party will continue the reform. That is quite correct, it will Christian People's Party. Maybe the Center Party won't. We have traveled around and listened, and there are many processes in the country that are well underway now and that have come halfway. By means of good voluntary means of reward, these can be met. I have faced this with the Workers' Party and received a positive answer. Right-black positive. The party of progress responded positively. But when I asked the Center Party, there was no answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3070	There has been an interesting debate to follow. When it comes to the community merging part of the debate, I would say that Vestfold, as I represent, is one of the states where there really is a lot of happening. Some municipalities have already merged, and many merge. But it has been very interesting to follow the discussion about the so-called regional reform. It's not a regional reform, it's a merger of county municipalities. The signals from Westfold have been very clear: there's nothing wrong with Telemark, but we don't want to marry them, at least not if the regions aren't going to have completely different tasks than they have today. It is quite special – as the representative Myrli and others have been involved – that one does not hear from the government parties or from the government's supporting parties, nor in Westfold and Telemark, who believe this is a good idea. Yes, the fact is that in this room there is almost no one who thinks this is a good idea. The government parties are taking a distance from the solution, and the Christian People's Party is taking a distance from the solution, and some are now voting against the solution. That's pretty special. Yes, it's almost dramatic that the Storting goes into a solution that no one wants, into such an important question as it is: how our country should be organized in the future. After the many questions that have been raised about what the new regions are going to do, what the new states are going to do, what they are going to do, and the demonstration that there are more mergers that nobody wants, I think – in that part of the question – that I am reminded of the story of the emperor's new clothes. The Emperor is the Council of State, and everyone in this Chamber sees that in terms of the content and desirability of the regional reform, the emperor is naked. We all see that. But anyway, the party groups have whipped people in place so that we can still make a decision that the emperor is wearing clothes. So it is not good for Stortinget – I think – that we make decisions that nobody really wants. The consolation is that until the fall there will be new costs to sweep, new people to rule. We in Westfold know that we're going to have a good neighbour relationship with Telemark in the future, but if the states don't want to merge, they're going to let go. The choice determines it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3083	The representative, Helga Pedersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3088	The right has a touching concern for the relationship of the Labour Party with our rapporteurs and voters. Leave it to us, we have control. Instead, it could be interesting to hear the government council comment on the study municipal report presented, which showed that 76 pst. by local politicians are dissatisfied with the process of government. With regard to the financial instruments, I have said two to three times earlier today that we will continue to receive one-off aid, reform aid and disbursement grants – and, if necessary, strengthen these schemes. We have supported these instruments since we first dealt with the municipal reform here, in 2014, and we have explained several times that we want to continue these instruments without a durability date. It's strange that the Council of State hasn't got it along after all these years, but it's quite indicative of the Council of State and this government's ability to listen. Had you had that ability, the reform might have had a broader anchoring and a wider majority than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3095	The representative Freddy de Ruiter has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3100	I understand that my two other colleagues, the representatives of Harberg and Ropstad, are not taking part in this debate, because they are probably in the same way as the states politicians in East-Agder from both the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are very disappointed today. They had probably expected a much more offensive state council, which had been very clear that the agreement that had been concluded, just by the majority of East-Agder comrades, had been followed up in practice. So I want to give the Council a last chance to answer my question. The General Secretariat of the State was nice, but the agreement between the two counties and for which there is a majority in the two counties are State jobs to Arendal in addition to the County to serve the new counties. The Council of State will take care of this, including: to ensure that Nav – in the county – comes to Arendal, and that the same road administration, the workplaces there, are moved to Arendal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3105	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3110	State Council Sanner finds it funny that the Center Party and the Labour Party require state jobs. But it is clear that the Council of State has not come to realize that it is his own in the Right, together with the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the rest of a mass assembly in Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane and Agder, who have demanded new great tasks, as they say in the intentional plans. I'm still waiting for answers from the Council of State, if he wants to meet their demands, if he wants to give a guarantee that it can be fulfilled, because this is what has our main argument for his party felonies when they have had their advertising for the regions. Then today's government stands out as the guarantor that this process of municipal convergence will continue, a process like 76 pst. according to the Municipal Report, by the local politicians are dissatisfied with, which is messy, which is hopeless. One merges municipalities that don't have common borders once - completely insane. So it has to go on. Good.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3116	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3121	There can be a majority for a reform without support – we do not know. It's on one voice. The referendum after a referendum has said no to centralisation. Last week there has been a poll there only 29 pst. by the population they say they will support coercion. There is a large majority against the use of coercion. Among the electorate of the Progress Party, there is a clear majority against the use of coercion. We have heard the representative of the supporting party Christian People's Party Geir Sigbjørn Toskedal say that we have produced a result 'that no parties agree with'. One has obtained a result ‘to which no parties agree’ in respect of the regional reform, and nevertheless it shall be voted through. So we've heard two state councils say: this is just step 1, now comes step 2, we're going to force more, we're going to run more on. Then you vote on the Right, the Advance Party, the Left – I don't know completely with the Christian People's Party – for the autumn, you know that you get more coercion, more centralization. There's something people don't want, and I hope that the representative who's now on the verge sees it's time to stop, stop the coercion and listen to the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3126	The representative Ingerd Schou has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3131	I hear reference to a number of polls that you take to income for your vision and press to your chest and say that it supports my position. There's only one poll that's the starting point for this, and that's the one we had in 2013, that's the contract we had with our voters. It's called election, it's overall greatness, and it's leading the work to be done in Stortinget. Then it is peculiar that in 2005, 2009 and 2013 the Workers' Party in its party programme in contract with the voters says that it will have a voluntary line for the municipalities, ‘but not in such a way that individual municipalities can stop any change that is desired by neighbouring municipalities and is appropriate for national purposes’. That's the contract with the voters. So much was the contract with the election and the election value that you chose to “ship” it along the way. There are no believers, so I ask for trust from the voters when we come to the autumn's choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3138	The representative Inbjørg Amanda Vosskenen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3143	I just want to follow up Freddy de Ruiter's questions to the State Council. The majority in the East-Agder Progress Party is also very interested in finding out whether the prerequisites of the East-Agder and West-Agder districts, with demands for state jobs for East-Agder, are being met. Especially with Nav, it's with the State Road Service and the things we've been talking about in the past. We want an answer to that, and that's pretty important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3148	The representatives of Godskesen and Freddy de Ruiter know that I have had a close and good dialogue with the state policies of East and West Agder, and that we have followed up what they wanted so far. And so the Goodness also knows that I can't answer on behalf of other government councils today, because there are still processes going on, but we have shown that we deliver. We've shown that we're following up locally. We've had a special ear for Arendal and East Agder. I note that today the rapporteur of the Labour Party in Arendal is standing up and says he is pleased with what this government has provided. Then I want to say, we have now had a long debate, a heated debate, a change of words that we are going to have in Stortinget when we make these kind of important and historic decisions. If we ignore the disagreement, which is really quite limited, there is today broad political consensus and probably almost a unanimous bigotry voting for the most part. I'm very happy about that. It is a recognition of local politicians from all parties who have done a great job. For four years I have traveled around the country and the beach and visited small municipalities, large municipalities, had dialogue with rapporteurs from all parties and attended their municipal government meetings. I have to say I have deep respect for the job they've done. Then I have only one wish in the end, and that is that when we are done voting today, we all contribute to supporting the local politicians who are now going to do a demanding job of building new municipalities in the years to come. It's about the inhabitants, and it's about all the thousands of employees in the municipalities. They deserve our support in the great and important work they are going to do. It is rapporteurs from the Central Party, from the Labour Party, from the Left, from the Christian People's Party, from the Right and from the Progress Party that are now building new municipalities. They believe this. They believe that there are strong municipalities that are good for the inhabitants, and they deserve our support – cross-politically – in the important job they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3159	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3164	There is no broad consensus in today's case, on the contrary, there is deep division. But there has been an important clarification. The right shall be the guarantor of continued aggregation of municipalities and counties. This is just the first step. It should be noted that elected and engaged residents of municipalities that have so far been outside. In the case of Buskerud, this applies inter alia. Lier and Obere Eiker, who will then become a part of the city of Drammen. I would like to bring forward the excellent rapporteur, Mr Ringdal, who is not only the Right-Rapporteur in Lier, but also the Central Member of the Right, together with the Prime Minister and the Council of State, Mr Sanner. She clearly fights against what is government policy. All in favour of the rapporteur, Mr Lier, who is not in favour of this issue. It is essential that we have those people who reject coercion – coercion that the Right rejected in 1995, but for which they are now the foremost representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3171	It is approaching the end of a long and important debate, but there is reason to ask the question: Have you answered the question? Governments are talking very much about those who need the services of municipalities, but when a municipality has to cancel a home help, or does not have enough money for a health sister in a school or not enough for child protection, it is very rare that the size of the municipality decides. It is whether we have put municipal economy, school, care for the elderly or health ahead of us, for example. Big tax cuts. It's the big, important debate about good services for people. But that's obviously how larger units can make sense. That's why a lot of local politicians across the country have taken this seriously and discussed and found out that this is good for them. Three-quarters of the merger vote in favour of the Central Party, said the Council of State Sanner. The Labour Party is in favour of even more. At the same time, Sanner says that we almost stop the whole reform process, so it has to be the last quarter, or the fifth or sixth that decides whether this is a success or a failure. It's a very strange presentation. The truth is that there are in particular the local politicians of the Workers' Party many places who have been drivers of good, voluntary, locally anchored mergers. Especially in the region, the Labour Party politicians have taken the lead. However, where the Council of State has failed so heavily, this reform should be filled with content, that more tasks, greater responsibilities and greater capacity for action and implementation should be provided locally. Now I've been a church minister twice, so I really appreciate the fact that the Council of State and the Right is boasting of the right of marriage and that this is a great reform and that it is being decentralised. But frankly, we could get a lot more. This is where the reform has cut itself. We should have done a real job of finding out which problems are best solved locally. We had to do a real job cleaning up in the state regions so that they were consistent with the elected regions, so that you could have a popular dialogue. We should get this better. Instead, these few coercive mergers – because there are not many, frankly – seem random and collapsed. Similar situations in different states are treated quite differently, and a newspaper revealed that there was an alarming convergence between the home municipalities of the majority parties and where coercion has not been used. You can't rule a country like that. Finally, the Council of State says that it is important to have such debates. That's great. However, the truth is that such major reforms have often been made by Norway with broad support. Pension reform, tax reform, the kind of thing we do together. So here, the Council of State has contributed to a deep division, scarce votes and a majority that may not last as long as three months. It is also not the way to carry out major reforms. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3184	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3190	The council gave in its last article the impression that there was almost a broad consensus in the Stortinget. It can't be undisputed. It's a deep split big deal that we're facing today. It's a deep split big deal. If one adopts the municipal reform and the coercive mergers, it is with one to two votes in balance. If one adopts the regional mergers, the coercive mergers there, it is with a few votes in balance. It is not that we must all end up with the wishes of the Council of State. On the contrary, we must now clarify the further work, for the greatest unanswered question after this debate is: How far will the Right and the Advance Party go in the next period if they remain in position? That's the big unanswered question. How far down are we going? How many, then, will coercion be locked? But luckily, we have a choice before that, and the voters can get to say their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3195	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3200	Mr Henriksen has asked for the floor before we go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3205	This concerns the proposal for document 8 submitted at the start of today's meeting, for the follow-up to the reform of the local police in line with Stortinget's intentions, from the representatives of Hadia Tajik, Lene Vågslid, Ferhat Güven and myself, and I ask that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3210	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3230	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-10, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Right, the Party of Progress and the Left the proposals No 11-13, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 14, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 16, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 17, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 18, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Party of Advancement and the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Askim municipality, Hobøl municipality, Eidsberg municipality and Trøgstad municipality are merged as from 1 January 2020. Given local approval, Spydeberg municipality is included in this aggregation. This may be done by the King of State Council under the law of division.’.» The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3270	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Ålesund municipality, Sandøy municipality, Skodje municipality and Ørskog municipality are merged from 1 January 2020.’;» The Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3289	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The municipality of Tysfjord, the municipality of Narvik and the municipality of Ballangen shall be merged as from 1 January 2020.’;» The Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3307	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Tranøy kommune, Lenvike kommune and Berge kommune merged on 1 January 2020’.» The Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3326	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Askim municipality, Hobøl municipality, Spydeberg municipality, Eidsberg municipality and Trøgstad municipality are merged from 1 January 2020.’; The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3346	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Skedsmo Municipality, Fat Municipality and Sørum Municipality merged on 1 January 2020.’» The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3365	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Mandal municipality, Marnardal municipality and Lindesne municipality are merged from 1 January 2020.’;» The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3384	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Kristiansand municipality, Søgne municipality and Songdalen municipality are merged from 1 January 2020.’; The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3403	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Ålesund municipality, Sandøy municipality, Skodje municipality, Haram municipality and Ørskog municipality are merged as from 1 January 2020.» The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3422	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The municipality of Sogndal, the municipality of Balestrand and the municipality of Leikanger shall be merged as from 1 January 2020.’;» The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3441	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The municipality and the municipality of Ørland shall be merged as from 1 January 2020.’;» The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3461	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Vikna municipality, Nærø municipality, Leka municipality and Bindal municipality merged on 1 January 2020. The county boundary between Trøndelag and Nordland is adjusted so that the new municipality becomes part of the Trøndelag county.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3482	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Tysfjord municipality is divided into two parts and each part is added to other municipalities. Narvik municipality, Ballangen municipality and part of Tysfjord municipality are merged from 1 January 2020. [[north-east side]] Hamarøy municipality and part of Tysfjord municipality are merged from 1 January 2020.» [[south-west side]] The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3505	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Tranøy kommune, Lenvik kommune, Berg kommune and Torskene kommune merged on 1 January 2020’.» The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3704	It shall be counted over A, I to VII, IX to XIX and XXI to XXIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3714	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal, amended in the course of the debate, reads: ‘Requests for aggregation between Sandnes and Forward are deferred’. The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3733	There is a vote on proposal No. 16th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The municipality of Sand and the municipality of Forsand shall be merged subject to the confirmation by the local authority of the decision on such aggregation.» The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3754	It's votting over A, VIII. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3769	It's voted over A, XX. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3783	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Workers' Party, the Party of Advancement and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Vågsøj kommune and Flora kommune will be merged by 1 January 2020 at the latest. Bremander is a municipality of its own.’ The Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3802	It's over B.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3816	A total of 18 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-8, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party the proposals No 10-12, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 13, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 14, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 15, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 16, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left the proposals No 17 and 18, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3846	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17 and 18, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more overall environmental considerations to be taken into account in planning and land management under the Planning and Building Act, as well as ensuring that objections from a regional level are given more weight in matters dealt with in the Department.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that county councils and county councillors are encouraged to resume their important role as opposition authority in matters of major regional and national importance, such as land and soil protection, industry and the environment and nature.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3870	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government to investigate and submit proposals for the transfer and financing of regional economic development from Innovation Norway to the counties.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3889	There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to be made by the government for the transfer of national child protection through Bufatat, the district psychiatric clinics and the family protection from the state to the county municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3906	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government to investigate and propose how the counties can be given responsibility for and funding to take over the Regional Research Funds.’ The Green Party and the Centre have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3925	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that administrative tasks currently assigned to the State Environment and Agriculture Department are transferred to the regionally elected level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3943	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that directors with political competence and local anchoring are appointed in health establishments. The appointment shall take place in dialogue with the regions.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the distribution of discretionary funds from the State to the municipalities is a task subject to a regionally elected level. The county retains beauty products related to preparedness.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3967	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to assess the transfer of tasks related to regional industrial development from Innovation Norway to the new regions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e3984	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-8, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a task which provides for coordination of the boundaries of its regional offices and counties.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks that the division of county councils, with the exception of Oslo and Akershus, continue to follow the boundaries of the county councils.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that grants to non-governmental airports, purchases of domestic routes and State fishing ports are continued as a State responsibility.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government shares the government’s ambition to increase the role of county councils in European cooperation and therefore asks the government to come back to the Grand Duchy with a case on how the regions can best be able to carry out this new role.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that tasks currently performed by the regional state/state that facilitate the use of political judgement, as a general rule, are added to the regionally elected level.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to continue Innovation Norway with regional governments and regional ownership as today.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that regionally elected levels continue to be responsible for secondary education and therefore that trials are not carried out on the transfer of this task to the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide regional instruments for strengthening decentralised higher education.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4039	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Christian Party, and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The County Municipality of Trom and the County of Finnmark shall be merged as from 1 January 2020.’;» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4058	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4125	It's going to wrestle over you.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4141	Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4153	It shall be counted against II. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4167	It's said over III. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4182	It is added over IV. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4196	It's over V. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4210	It's going to add up to VI. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4224	It shall be added over VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4234	It's going to add up to VIII, IX and X. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4248	It is added over XII. The Labour Party has announced that they will vote against it. [[(from the hall):]] Is that XII? We must support that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4260	It supports the Workers' Party. It's fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4272	It is added over XI. The Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4290	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a plan and to submit proposals to ensure the necessary competence and capacity in municipalities in the environment, nature, biodiversity and outdoor life.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4321	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to draw up national guidelines on the quality and quantity of TT transport as soon as possible and to propose a financing mechanism for TT transport in line with national guidelines.» The Green Party and the Centre have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4340	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of whether the allocation of resources in the residential social area is proportionate to the documented need before any assessment of the transfer of responsibility from the Husbankan to the municipalities is made.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review the responsibility of the courts for notarial confirmations with a view to transferring greater responsibility to the municipalities than proposed in Prop. 91 L [[2016-2017]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4496	It shall be counted against A, I, II and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4506	It's votting over A, III. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4520	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4530	The legislative decision is set up for the second time during a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4642	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4654	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4669	The legislative decision is set up for the second time during a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: C The government is asked to assume that responsibility for the management of funds for food and environmental measures in forestry is transferred from the State to the county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4680	The Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4692	Has anyone voted wrong? Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4701	You'll have to come with me. Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4713	So we go to case no. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4729	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4738	I would first like to thank the Committee for its work on speeding up this process. Southern Sami culture is under pressure. We have to act, and we have to act on time. I think we can really see that there is a cross-political consensus on that, at least as I read the committee after the discussion. The proposers rightly point to the need for a comprehensive strategy covering both southern Sami languages, culture and industry. We agree with the proposers. In fact, the midterms have special challenges as a minority in the minority. We are pleased that the Council of State in its response to the proposal points out that they are in the process of following the 2016 NOU:18, the heart language, which has recently been at the hearing. This report was submitted by a selection of the government set up in consultation with the Sameting in 2014 and made its submission last year. The Christian People's Party believes that the government must now take some time and assume that the government has the necessary dialogue with the Sameting. I think that, on the part of Stortinget, we should give the government a certain space for action on how this should be followed up. To this end, the Committee has agreed to call on the Government in the follow-up to that NOU to have a ‘special attention to the Southern Sami language and the links between language, culture and industry, and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with concrete proposals for follow-up’. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I hereby recommend that the Committee be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4759	In several areas, the Committee agrees that Southern Sami languages and culture need to be maintained. A Joint Committee also states that there are specific challenges to maritime language and culture, and we agree that there is a close link between language, culture and traditional business practice. In spite of this, the majority will therefore not support the proposal for a separate communication on Southern Sami language, culture and industry. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State states: ‘Before the Ministry takes a decision, where appropriate, to draw up its own notification to the Grand Duchy of Southern Sami languages, it would be natural and appropriate to contact Sametinget, in order to obtain the assessment of the case by the Sameting.’ State councils can now save their efforts to contact the Sameting. The merger has now clarified what they think about this issue, by a large majority. The merger says that they support the proposal to draw up a separate large-scale report. They say that the situation of the southern samples suggests that a separate survey on the situation of Southern Sami culture, languages and business with concrete follow-up measures should be presented and that the notification should be drawn up in cooperation with the Sameting. That's what the whole thing has now decided. We should have followed this up at Stortinget by adopting the minority proposal. The NOU, the heart language, has been at the hearing. The deadline expired on 15 March, and we are now assuming that the necessary resources in the ministry are used to ensure that the follow-up to the NOU is well advanced. I'm dealing with the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4775	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4780	I would first like to thank the proposers for raising an important debate. The southern Sami language is important in the Sami culture, and we are today in a situation where the southern Sami language is in a critical situation. The work on strengthening the Sami languages has been a priority task over a longer period of time. This applies to Sami languages in general, but it is particularly important for the small language groups, such as Southern Sami and Lulesamian. The Sami languages are cultural and important in the continuation of Sami values and knowledge. The right to use Sami in meeting with the public and the right to training in and in Sami is one of the most important rights for people together. This is therefore a theme that both the Right and the Government have been concerned about, and on this basis, in consultation with the Sameting, a private public Sámi language selection was launched in 2014. The task of the selection was to review current schemes, measures and legislation relating to the Sami languages, and to assess how these can be adapted to the current public sector organisation and ensure functional and equivalent public services in Sami. The selection should also provide suggestions on how the public sector can secure staff with skills in Sami languages and look at schemes and measures to encourage more people to learn and use the Sami languages. The report for the current selection, NOU 2016:18, The Heart Language, was recently out of hearing, and the government is now working on how to follow up the recommendations contained in the report. In this context, I refer to the Council of State's letter to the Committee, where he writes that it is too early to decide how the NOU on Sami languages should be followed up and how the matter should possibly be referred to the Stortinget. Right is the sum of this. The proposers point to an important point, namely that the sectoral principle leads to a weakening of the country’s governance of the common policy. Therefore, the Government Party and the Cooperation Parties have become aware that the Government is considering a possible new budget model for the Sameting. We look forward to the further discussions between the Department and the Sameting, and hope that they will agree on a model that will ensure coordination and sound political priorities. I am pleased that the Committee in this matter has a unified position asking the government in the follow-up of NOU 2016:18, the heart language, to have a special note in Southern Sami language and the links between language, culture and nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4805	I am co-rapporteur on this proposal together with representatives from the Workers' Party and the SV, where we are asking to present a separate report on Southern Sami language, culture and industry. The Sami population has several languages and is scattered. Today, only a few hundred people speak Southern Sami. In other words, the language is under strong pressure, and that is why we are promoting this proposal for a representative. Language is characterised as a strongly threatened language. In the last decade there has been a revitalization of Sami language. This has also helped to make Southern Sami culture visible. Several municipalities, such as Snåsa, Røyrvik and Hattfjelldal, are or have applied for inclusion in the Sami language area. In the autumn of 2016, Røros opened its own Southern Saami kindergarten. Uncertainty has also been created, including: through cuts in the allocations to the Southern Sam Sam School in Hattfjelldal and inertia in the continuation of the plans of the museum and the cultural centre Saemien Sijte in Snåsa. In autumn 2016, the Sami language selection delivered its report, the heart language, to the government. The selection has gone through legislation, measures and schemes in southern Sami, lulesamic and northern Sami languages in Norway. The report stresses that Sami languages are endangered languages and that more users are needed to keep the languages alive. The measures proposed include the strengthening of Sami languages in kindergartens and schools and more people with a common language competence in public services. It is also pointed out that distance learning in schools and distance consultations in the health and care sector need to be organised more closely. We stress, as proposers, that it is important to follow up the thorough work done in the Sami Language Committee. We are clear that there is no contradiction between the implementation of measures mentioned in the Heart Language Report and the provision of a key message for a comprehensive review of measures for Southern Sami languages, culture and industry. I would like to point out that the Committee had meetings with representatives of the Sameting in the context of this matter. The representatives of Sametinget stressed that the situation in the Southern Sami language area had to be seen in the context of and addressed together with measures in the Sami language in general through the follow-up to the Heart Language Report. I agree with that, and I believe that the proposals we have made support this. I also refer to our remarks. I have to say I was a little surprised when there was a great lack of enthusiasm from the representatives of Sameting. I got the understanding that they didn't think there was a need for extra attention just about the southern Sami. The southern Sami is a minority in the minority and therefore has particularly major challenges. Today we have received a letter from Sametinget where they have a completely different view of this, and where they see the need for extra attention around the Southern Sami. We now have the opportunity to change and vote in favour of that proposal if we want to follow the whole thing's view as presented today. This is about more than language. It's about cultural development, it's about cultural conservation, the museum in Snåsa, for example. the storage capacity of Southern Sami articles. It is also about the development of industry, for example: the unsustainable predatory situation in these areas. The southern Sami reindeer is the support of the southern Sami culture. What distinguishes these two proposals is essentially whether we want this to be a big message of our own, or whether it should be a follow-up in the follow-up to the heart language. The minority in this setting therefore believe that a single big message is the best, but I am at least glad that we have come to the conclusion that the committee agrees that this should have its own attention in the follow-up to the heart language.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4828	I thank the President-in-Office for his presentation. Otherwise, I also think that the representative, Mr. Greni, had a good post that in many ways highlighted some of the things that are ‘cluet’ in this matter. This applies to a minority of minorities. I think it is an important matter, and I also want to thank the proposers because they just focused on it. I myself come from a state with significant southern Sami settlement, and I have fought for funds for the Southern Sami culture in all budgetary negotiations. I hope we can now also get the land of Saemien Sijte, which is located on Snåsa. It has been a very pleasant matter for us, both for the southern and for the north-trøndelag. In a globalised everyday life, it is particularly important that we protect our native languages, including the southern Sami. I am also pleased with the Committee's position that the government's follow-up to NOU 2016:18, the heart language, must focus attention on the Southern Sami language and the role it plays in culture and industry, which was also addressed by the representative, Mr Greni. The left will continue to stand on for Southern Sami culture, and for me, as a representative of the North Trondelag – where this is also part of our identity and our culture – this is a matter that will always be close to my heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4839	As the initiator of this proposal, I must say that I am a little surprised by the small reception it has received in the ministry. Everyone knows that the common policies – including the big one – are a bit laborious. We have the sector responsibility principle, which we've discussed here several times, and it's probably not to put our trust that the Sami issues are rarely at the top of the priority list when the different ministries and state councils are fighting for dollars and measures. Then the Sami drowns in the national and southern Sami in Sami. I also come from a county where we have a southern settlement with traditional nutrition – and maybe a little bit of language again. This issue is about the whole of the Southern Sami settlements and populations. That's why we have raised a matter of looking at this in a whole. I am very happy that the Sametinge sent us this letter – and now said that they support this wholeheartedly. Me and SV are also very fond of the NOU, the heart language. It shows that there are several of the Sami languages under threat. For example, lulesamically is strongly threatened, and the southern Sami languages are directly threatened. There are several of these language groups that are small, and specific measures are needed to ensure that we are a little more confident that they will live in the future. We are proud of this diversity. It even states in the Basic Law that we are a nation based on two peoples, and then we have to make sure that the indigenous people, that is, the Sami interests and languages, are preserved so that they can survive. That is why the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV have proposed that this NOU, the heart language, be followed up as quickly as possible. That is perhaps the very most important measure. But culture and nutrition must also be seen in the context of this language, and it must be seen in the context of the various measures taken in the field of common policies in general. That is why we believe that the government should make its own big message about this, so that you can see this in context. It might also be useful to see this together with what the government is now working on to raise the Sami issues, to gather it more or get a better overview, when it comes to government and when it's being presented to the Stortinget. I would encourage co-representatives to vote in favour of proposal No. 1 and 2. This is necessary because the southern Sami population, language, culture and industry need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4852	Thank you to the Committee for a good job. It's good that this is a common recognition of the challenge and also a great commitment to South Sami language. It is necessary because the southern Sami language is in a critical situation: the southern Samsmen are few, and the southern Sami community is spread over large areas. In many genera, the natural transmission of language between generations has stopped. There is also no overall Southern Sami language community. However, thanks to many fire seals, southern Sami is still a living language. The government has worked to support the work of Southern Sami, language training in schools, southern Sami languages and culture in kindergarten, language camps and adult training in southern Sami are in the process of ensuring continuity in language. Language centres and cultural centres are also important venues for the use of Southern Sami languages. The 2012 Sami language survey showed that today there are more young southern mothers who can speak Southern Sami than in the Parent Regeneration. This suggests that efforts are effective and that Southern Sami languages are in a positive development. Nevertheless, we face many challenges in strengthening the southern Sami language for the future. These challenges need to be met in cooperation with the Southern Sami environment and with the Sameting. In order to strengthen the work of the Sami languages, the government, in consultation with the Sameting, reduced its own public Sámi language selection in 2014. The committee presented its report, NOU 2016:18 – The heart language, last October. In particular, the Committee has highlighted the special needs of Southern Sami languages and has made proposals for action to meet these needs. The report of the Language Committee has been at the hearing on 15 March 2017. The committee has made extensive proposals, and many consultation opinions have been received — approximately. 130. The Government will follow up the report of the Language Committee in dialogue and consultations with the assembly. It is currently premature to decide in what form it would be appropriate to refer the matter to the Enlargement. It's a question we want to get back to, and where we want to go with the Sameting's assessments. The language selection report addresses the specific challenges facing southern Sami languages. We will bring that with us, both the Sameting and the government, in the follow-up to the report. Let me also add that it is also not necessary to wait until a cancellation notice is presented to Stortinget. We are also keen to see whether concrete measures can be followed up to speed up the impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4868	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4873	The proposal is about providing a big message on language, culture and industry. I am pleased with the positive attitude of many parties here speaking in language. But in the proposal we are promoting, we also point out that there is a need to clarify the rights of land and water south of Finnmark, and also in parts of the Southern Sami region. In 2005, the Finnish Law was adopted after 25 years of debate. Now the Samerrechtscommittee II is on the table, and it has been doing so for many years – complicated and sometimes controversial questions. In the previous case we were dealing with, the government parties – out of the blue – have been involved in promoting a proposal to investigate the mountain law, and it is concluded in advance that State Forest should be the administrator of Troms and Nordland. The merger has not been consulted and there has been no dialogue with the states concerned. Is this government’s new standard for dealing with indigenous issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4882	The Joint Court Committee II is an important report, and it is also right that it has been lying for a long time. Under the red-green government it has obviously been in the drawer for eight years. We took up that report again, and we started working to put in place a new law on consultation, so that we could also get it done at local and county level. We've consulted the Sameting about it. We were almost in target, but because there was no agreement on the question of budgetary arrangements, this matter has been pending. But I am prepared to follow up on that work further. I think it's important. With regard to the question of the mountain law, it will be that the government will of course consult the Sameting before we proceed with the follow-up to the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4887	I fully agree that the Committee on Civil Liberties II has been in place for a long time, and we have to take a joint responsibility for that. The problem is that when you hear from the government for the first time about how to follow up the Joint Court Committee II, it is almost in the form of a bench proposal in a case where there is no basis for action from the government and where the Sametinget has not been consulted. I would remind you that we already have a consultation system that has existed for many years. What makes this particularly problematic is that it in turn reinforces the idea that the symmetries should not have the same rights as other cohabitants. There would have been a scandal about Finnland law and the rights conditions in Finnmark had been treated in such a deplorable way as the government parties here seem to be doing. Does the Council of State see that criticism as having something to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4892	I totally disagree that it is a shared responsibility that the Committee on Civil Liberties II has been in a drawer for eight years. It is the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government's responsibility that they did not follow up on the Samerrecht Committee in the eight years. We have taken up the work again, and we have addressed some of the most important issues, namely getting a consultation system at local and regional level. We have also followed up the questions about one post on the grant, about getting a joint grant to the Sameting, which they wanted. We have kept Stortinget constantly informed about that work. We've had good consultations with the Sameting. We agree on most things, except whether or not there should be a separate budgetary consultation with the Sameting. We agree with the Sameting on a great deal about the follow-up to the Sameting Committee II. As far as the mountain law is concerned, I am quite clear that it must be consulted with the Sameting before proceeding with the follow-up to the decision taken by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4899	We can discuss the pole up and down what the red-green government did. The Red-Green Government began to follow up on the Societal Committee II, but this government has not followed up on the management of land and water rights in Troms and Nordland, which is what we are discussing now. The Joint Committee proposed, among other things: to establish a separate Hålogaland public opinion, a proposal that has aroused enthusiasm in individual circles and indignation in others. We have to agree that these are complicated questions. In that case, at least it is not the way to attack it at the start of the process of concluding with who will manage these areas and point to a particular solution. There have been sharp reactions from the Sametinget, which the Council of State is probably familiar with having written a letter to the Stortinget. My clear advice is that the government is correcting it, starting at Scratch, consults with Sametinget and has dialogue with Troms and Nordland.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4904	Let me just repeat that this government has resumed work with the Joint Court Committee II, important questions, had good dialogue with the Council of Consensus, and we are almost in the port of many important questions. It's a little bit that has remained before you could conclude. Similarly, we have also followed up the Nordic Convention, where there is now a proposal on the table. This is an important step forward in the work on Sami rights. I am aware that there are different views on the mountain law and how this is to be managed, and therefore I am quite clear that in the follow-up to the Stortinget decision we will of course consult with Sametinget on how it should be done, and so on. return to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4911	I think it is very positive that we have come to the agreed position on Southern Sami language, culture and nutrition. It's urgent. South Sami language is very endangered. I myself live in a southern Sami municipality that has just gained status in the administration area, and it is incredibly important, because we see that there are many things that need to be done. The Council of State is aware that cooperation needs to be done, and that a number of things can be done before a big message comes, and I think that is very important, simply because the situation is so dramatic. So when can we imagine that the first steps can be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4916	Let me thank you for your commitment, for this is a matter that I hope we can cooperate on across the party-political dividing lines. Taking care of Sami, and especially the southern Sami language, is an important matter. A good part has been done, related to language training in schools, southern Sami languages and kindergarten culture, language camps, adult training in southern Sami, etc., and these are measures that can also be followed in budgetary terms. I've said that we have to try to get hold of the low-hanging fruits, because it's not like you have to wait and see everything in connection with everything. It is possible for both government and magnification to follow up on specific points.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4923	As we know, the southern Sami is a minority in the minority. There are a few hundred who speak southern Sami, and I'm very pleased that an overall committee now specifies that southern Sami should have a special attention in the follow-up of the heart language. But what we wanted was our own big message for Southern Sami language, culture and industry. After all, nutrition is also very linked to culture, especially in the case of southern Sami, southern Sami reindeer, etc., and we are still hoping to have a majority for it now that the Sameting has changed its view. Does the Council of State agree with me that the Southern Sami needs extra attention, even in matters other than language? And in case the Council of State does not think this should be followed up with a separate message, how does the Council of State think that this can be followed up in other ways?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4930	I agree that this is about language, but also more than language; it is also about culture and industry. I do not disagree with that, but we believe that it is not appropriate to make a separate big message about this now. We want to have full pressure on the follow-up of the heart language. Then I believe that measures relating to culture, industry and language can be implemented in the Southern Sami region, which can also be followed up in other ways. It may be followed up in the budget. We also provide large-scale messages about the work of the Sameting, where there can be added leads to this further. So we don't have to go on our own notice to reinforce the measures that have already been taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4938	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4956	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4965	The Committee has examined the proposals made by the government to legislate on the requirements of the Health and Welfare Services Act, to legislate on the local health service’s obligation to provide guidance to specialist health services, to clarify the responsibilities for patients, to use and related training in the municipal health service, to clarify the responsibilities of the municipality for preventing, detecting and averting violence and sexual abuse, to clarify the municipality’s obligation to provide psychosocial protection and follow-up, to remove the requirement for referral to treatment by physiotherapist — and to transfer the responsibility for dental services from the county to the municipality. This is a bill that contains a number of changes, and the committee has worked well on this. Of course, it is the proposal to transfer dental services to municipalities that have received the most attention, both in consultation opinions to the Committee, in the media debate and in our work. The background to the proposal is the community reform and the need to look critically at the current division of tasks between our elected levels. The dental service has border areas against municipal services, and the government believes that organising and integrating public dentistry services with municipal health promotion and prevention in the health and care services in the municipalities would be a good effect. To put it simply, the municipality is responsible for the entire body, while the teeth are the county municipalities that are over. However, it is a fact that this change has gained a lot of criticism in the hearing opinions as well. In the Committee's work, this has had an impact. A majority today, consisting of the government parties Right and Advance Party and the cooperation parties Christian People's Party and Left, therefore adopt a probationary system in which about 15 municipalities from 2020 can take over dental care. This will be a voluntary scheme, but also a complete task transfer. The testing scheme shall be followed up to 2023. Based on the experience gained from the testing scheme and changes in the municipal structure in Norway after 2020, the majority agree that further expansion to several municipalities can only take place after 2023. Until a new decision is taken, regional responsibility for dental care is continued, except for municipalities in the testing scheme. The majority have assessed that there may be several arguments to put in place a voluntary testing scheme for those municipalities that wish to take over the responsibility for dental care from 2020. The municipal reform has resulted in mutual decisions on a wide range of municipal mergers, and this process will continue over time. In 2023, there will probably have been even more mergers than would have been the case in 2020. Dental responsibility is one of the areas that can be very natural for large municipalities to take over in the long term, and also for others. The four cooperation parties are also concerned that dental competence needs to be built up in the municipalities. Tooth care professionals have important competences in the preventive dental field, and with an increasing ageing population good oral and dental hygiene will be important for a good old age. The law of the Stortinget today also contains positive simplifications such as the fact that patients do not have to walk the road to regularity in order to receive benefit for treatment by a physiotherapist. It has been important for governments and cooperation parties during this period to eliminate unnecessary diversions in order to obtain rapid health care. We also agree that municipalities must have the core competence to ensure high-quality health care. When the previous government introduced the interaction reform, it meant that municipalities would take considerably more responsibility for health and care services for several patient groups. It requires increased competence, and we have always felt it was very unfortunate that the requirements of competence were weakened in the bill, compared to day-to-day legislation. Competence and management are essential for good services, and lack of this represents a challenge in the provision of municipal services. Today's decision to introduce skills requirements could also prevent them, on the one hand, from the wide variation in skills and quality that we see in municipalities today, and, on the other hand, from many warnings about the introduction of professional neutrality. Competence requirements are supported by the large organisations, but it is not supported by the red-green parties, and I expect these parties to elaborate on why later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4980	Today’s dental model has produced good results in terms of better dental health in the population, increased focus on prevention, well decentralised provision and strengthening research and competence. The dental service is actually one of the services the population is most satisfied with, and, as the rapporteur said, there was an unusually high interest in the particular dental part of what we are dealing with in this matter. It turns out that all the heavy trade unions, all the large organizations, strongly advise against a transfer of dental services to the municipalities. The Labour Party therefore considers that it is alarming that the government is still choosing to propose such a transfer, which is based neither on heavy professional or organisational arguments, nor will it offer a better offer to those who need a strong public dental offer, that is to say, all children and young people, the elderly, those who are under public care and the most vulnerable patients. The good dental health of children and young people and different priority groups is a result of systematic effort over many years. Regional centres of excellence have been established to strengthen the practical competence and the provision of specialist health services. One of the results of this competence environment is that the dental environment is actually those in health that are best able to detect and send care failure messages. It is still unclear to the Workers' Party how this will be organised in the future when it is to be transferred to 350 municipalities – whether it is still to be intermunicipal, something that is really being argued against when it comes to building strong municipalities. The Christian People's Party and the Left had the opportunity to provide a majority in the Grand Duchy who quite clearly said no to the transfer of the public dental offer from the regional elected level to about 350 municipalities. Instead, they create uncertainty, confusion and unforeseeability, according to what the Workers' Party believes, thus weakening the public dental offer. Christian People's Party and Left support government parties in transferring responsibility but postponing implementation to 2023 and will have a probationary system for up to 15 voluntary municipalities. The dental specialist field must also be transferred to 350 municipalities. It is argued that this would be beneficial for people with extensive and complex needs. For the Workers' Party, it is important that these patients receive the highest and best professional offer, as has been the organisation of the specialist health service in all other health fields. It is also unclear what will happen to the six regional centres of excellence – how they will coordinate themselves with the odontological environments at university level in the future. The majority also split the public dental provision by legislating that municipalities should have dental nurses. Today, dental care providers are responsible for an important part of public dental care, not least in prevention, a field that should be given increased attention. Instead, the entire public dentistry field is being put on hold and must use resources to re-communalise without seeing any evidence of professional or organisational impact. This does not provide predictability to further develop the dental offer. It does not guarantee an equivalent dental provision for the whole population, but it fragmented both the services and the professional environment and weakens the dental provision. Therefore, the Workers' Party does not support the proposed changes resulting in the transfer of responsibility for the public dental services to 350 municipalities. As regards the rest of the subject area that is discussed and discussed in this case, Tove Karoline Knutsen will explain this in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e4997	The government is building the patient's health service, millimeters by millimeters and stone on stone. The progress party is very happy to take part in this. Today, the Proposition takes account of changes in health legislation in several of our areas of activity and is a follow-up to what the Stortinget adopted during the treatment of the primary health notification and the municipal reform. In other words, today we are at the heart of the blue political message. The government wants larger and stronger municipalities that can have more tasks and more responsibilities. Several tasks will enable municipalities to develop a more comprehensive and coherent service provision for citizens. The staff is the main resource that municipalities have – without employees, of course, the Kommune-Norway stops. For this reason, it is also important to look at the challenge of health and care services and how each municipality can best provide them. In the primary health message we said something about how we want municipalities to organise their services, in primary teams and follow-up teams. Today we are going to say something about the kind of competence that all municipalities should have, and which they should have. This doesn't mean that not all professionals are important. The Health and Welfare Act is essentially professionally neutral, but it does contain several provisions or regulations requiring or requiring different types of competence or groups of personnel. We also believe that it is important to define the core competence of municipalities, and are pleased that the system of doctors, dentists, psychologists, nurses, physiotherapists, ergot therapists, health nurses, midwives and dentists is regulated. Nevertheless, our image of the core competence of the municipality will not be complete without a further professional qualification, namely the protection services. We believe that in order to ensure that municipalities provide sound and comprehensive health and care services to all their inhabitants, specific knowledge of disability in general and developmental disability is also required. Many users of municipal health and care services have long-standing and comprehensive needs for services throughout their lives, and many have difficulties in expressing their own wishes and needs. Protective nurses are currently the second-largest professional in Bachelor’s education who are employed in municipal health and care services. At the same time, protective care professionals are the only professional with health and social competence who are also authorised health professionals. Protective care providers also have specific competence to deal with coercion, but especially in facilitating its use. Among other things, they are also sought after in dementia care, mental health and drugs. Other, including: The FFO and the University and Higher Education Council have highlighted the importance of protective care in their input. As a result of the government cooperation and previous decisions in connection with the primary health notification, we have not had the opportunity to make proposals for the law enforcement of protective caregivers in this round, but we will not let go of the matter, and we will continue to work for law enforcement. There are many things in the proposition that make everyday life easier for most people. It addresses the needs of relatives for relief, care assistance, guidance and training — and requires municipalities to provide support and self-assessment of their needs. It clarifies the responsibilities of health and care services for preventing, detecting and averting violence and sexual abuse. It confirms that patients with serious illness are entitled to contact doctors also in the private health system. It clarifies the responsibility of municipalities for psychosocial preparedness and follow-up. Both the July 22 report and the Health Directorate's surveys show variations in the services provided by municipalities. Last, but not least, it says something about the future of dental care. Then I have to point to the municipal reform and the desire for large, robust municipalities. We're not here yet. With this background, we now choose to stop the transfer of dental services to municipalities, but facilitate a pilot scheme with a follow-up evaluation from 2020 to 2023. We want the municipalities that experience large enough, alone or together with others, to choose to take over the dental service. In 2023, after considering experiences and when many possibilities lie on the table, we believe that the picture looks different, and that it is possible to redraw the dental card. Because although most of us are satisfied with today's dental services, there are groups of people for whom today's organization does not work. We have to do something about this and we're going to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5029	We adopt a number of changes in health and care legislation in this case. I want to spend my speaking time on the responsibility for dental care. A proposal to transfer responsibility from the county to the municipalities has been out for consultation. We've got a lot of strong points of view. The main issue is how important it is to continue the county responsibility and not break up today's well-functioning structures and destroy good trade unions. The background to this proposal is the notification of tasks, but it is stated in the proposition that it is the Stortinge which, in this consideration of the legislative proposal, will take a final position on the level of government that will in the future be responsible for the public responsibility for dental services. Thus, today the size decides to continue dental services at regional level and a test scheme – a voluntary testing scheme – for about 15 municipalities, which can try to take full responsibility themselves. It is not right, as the Workers' Party and the Centre write in the setting, that the Stortinget today adopts a postponement of the dental reform. The majority of the population does not want a transfer of dental responsibility to the municipal level. The majority today decides that the responsibility for dental care is to be continued at a regional level: ‘Until a new decision is taken, regional responsibility for dental care is continued, except for municipalities in the sample scheme.’ Moreover, in all tasks, future economies of scale will determine the different responsibilities and responsibilities, including dental responsibilities. This bulk of population believes that it is wisest to continue responsibility at regional level. The Christian People's Party is extremely pleased that dental services are continuing at a regional level, and that about 15 municipalities who want to do so themselves can voluntarily take over the responsibility for dental health, which is currently with the county municipality, from 2020. The request by the local government must be assessed on a case-by-case basis, whether it is appropriate for each municipality and for the overall offer in the county or region responsible. The law states that the King is empowered to lay down the necessary provisions for regulating and clarifying the transfer. So there will be future magnification and governments deciding here. Christian People’s Party is pleased that the Stortinget now decides that responsibility for dental care is continued at a regional level. That's wise. Today we have a dental service for which the county is responsible, and this works well. It is important for the Christian People's Party that the county continues to have this responsibility, and that the good and competent professional environment is not destroyed. Nevertheless, there has also been a discussion about the dental care system. It is true that there are many different occupational groups, both in municipalities and at a different level of care. It is for the municipalities that are to have dental care, also to enter into agreements with the county offices that have dental nurses. It is fully possible, in order to ensure that their older people are given the opportunity to offer them. It is not the case that municipalities need to do parallel tasks if cooperation is to be achieved – of course this is the case. The Christian People's Party would recommend this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5047	After a relatively long debate on municipal reform and regional reform, we are now going to debate which tasks the municipalities will not be transferred anyway. The government has almost legitimized the entire municipal reform by giving the municipalities new, big tasks. Dental health was one of them, and now this whole dental reform is canceled, at least as I interpret the representative of the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party and the Left have seen their feet down, and we think that's very good. I would like to thank these parties, who listened to the massive protests that have come from professional communities, from municipalities and county councils, and from patient and user organisations. A large number of those who have spoken about transferring public responsibility for dental health from the county council to the municipality have been opposed. Now, a voluntary trial scheme is to be set up for the municipalities that want to transfer responsibility, and from 2023 – write the plurals – there are probably even more municipal councils in Norway, so then the municipalities can take over that responsibility. I agree with the representative from the Christian People's Party that this is fortunate for the new government to take over, and then I hope it will be a different plurality than it is in the Storting today. I think that too might be better for the Christian People's Party in this matter. I don't quite understand what the majority says when they ask the government to start a job of building up the dental skills in the municipalities. It can be interpreted as meaning that dental care is a municipal responsibility in the future, regardless of which dental services are allowed. I want to warn you that you need to have different dental and dental employers. They must at least be part of the same professional environment, although they can of course work in different places and work independently. So for the legalisation of competence requirements in the municipal health and care services. We were not surprised that this government is returning this. But I would like to point out that this is not to introduce competence requirements – this is to introduce professional requirements into legislation. There were skills requirements we introduced, and thus a professionally neutral law. Now we're going to have a law that mentions professionals, as opposed to the law that regulates who works in hospitals. The specialist health service law does not mention any professionals. There are nurses in hospitals anyway. But now both nurses, lizards, physiotherapists, midwives, psychologists, therapists, and health sisters are to be considered. Some professionals should be legal, others should not. The problem is not the ones that are legalised. The problem is all the health professionals that are important in municipalities, but that are not legalised. What about protective caregivers and socionomers, which I now hear is that the Progress Party wants in? What about the health professionals, who are the vast majority of those who work in the community health service? Why shouldn't they be legalized? What about the logo-peders? We were several representatives from several parties on one debate the other day, where a requested logopedar to all the percussion frames that need it offered in the municipalities, but there are not many places. What about music therapists? What about nutrition physiologists? Do you think it'll be easier to get these professionals into the municipality when some professionals get legalized and others don't? It won't be. This could go beyond the multi-disciplinary cooperation in the municipalities, which I am talking about otherwise, so wait. The other changes in this law are, of course, some – a clarification of the responsibility in the law for patient, user and dependant training, the detection and prevention of sexual abuse and violence, and this with a contact doctor. We have one proposal, and it is based on a request for a report to the Stortinget on how to deal with the contact doctor's offer in the services. I would like to address that proposal on behalf of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5068	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5073	Tannhelsen is the case that invites the biggest debate in this case here. For the left, we've been together with the Christian People's Party to keep public dentistry in the county municipalities, or at the middle level. We are in favour of a municipal reform, but the municipal reform is moving relatively slowly forward, and at the stage we are now, we believe it is right that dental health is carried out by this intermediate level, which finds its form between the municipalities and the state. Dental health is an example of a county municipal task that has had, and has, success. Norwegian dentistry has improved significantly in the last ten years and can be documented in different ways. The holes in the teeth are one of the examples of that. Fortunately, fewer and fewer of the growing generation are getting holes in their teeth, and in itself it is evidence that a good preventive job is being done. It's worth taking into account that many parents are making a lot of effort. For the left, it has not been difficult to accept that we should have up to 15 attempts where municipalities will try to operate dental services. In general, we need more testing in the Norwegian health sector, and the alternative to maintaining a primary and specialist healthcare service – Norway is one of the few countries in the world with such a two-part healthcare system – is that we add everything to one level. No matter which of the three levels we should choose, at least we need experience from the different levels of operations. That's why a follow-up evaluation was also one of the requirements we made, and that must be until 2023, and then we'll have to take stock of the progress of community reform, how it went with those trials and how it goes with dental care in the middle level. For that intermediate level – about the debate earlier today – it is the very best example that we have too many and too small municipalities in Norway, and how precisely the intermediate level shows that there is a level of efficient operation here. For a certain population base, it is necessary to achieve this type of operation and to obtain the effects that the dental sector has actually had over the last 40 years since the county municipalities were established in 1974. It also says the Dental Association and many of the dentists, that a transfer to the municipalities will involve a large number of intercommunal collaborations to run that business today. That is precisely what we have been doing here and discussing and arguing for today, that the kind of inter-communal cooperation in which responsibility is shifted from elected levels to indirect democracies, we do not want any more of it. That in itself is a good argument for us to keep it at a level that is well structured. This works well today, and we're not changing that picture much by establishing 15 attempts. It's like 80 pst. of the dental activities in Norway are carried out by private individuals, and there are many private actors who make a good contribution to the patient’s best, as we have heard in the many hours of debate today on the size and intrigue of the public. We therefore ensure a great deal of political attention on the wider association of dental services, and it will be interesting to discuss – more interestingly – both in the municipalities, in the counties and also in the health and care committee, which sometimes has not discussed so much dental health. That's good in itself. Finally, I would like to add a few words to the ergot therapists, whom I am very pleased that we have joined the primary health teams, that they are being legalized from 2020. I'm constantly pulling out the Hagen Committee and Innovation in care. There's going to be three times more ergot therapists in the primary health service to get the innovation we need, and that's why they're so important. Along with both dentists and dentists, I think we have a lot to go on in terms of innovation, and dentists are actually some of those who have taken out a good part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5088	SV is totally opposed to destroying a service that works well for people, as dental services do. The Dental Association says that there are no professional arguments and reasons for shifting the responsibility for dental care to the municipalities. No argument or evidence has been provided indicating the need for change, except that someone should have something to move — there is also a need — or a documentation that says that patients need it. The user organisations say no, the municipalities have said no, the county authorities have said no. And unfortunately, left: 15 attempts at this will make the big municipalities get it, and then you take out a lot of dental services and break up the good professional environments you now have to build, which are also to serve the parts of the country that are sparsely populated. They need to see this in context in order for the environment to be strong enough. So this is the beginning of a destruction of one of the health services in Norway that works the best. There is an SV against, and this has to be stopped, because there is no need to change something that works well, even if someone really needs something to move to justify a municipal reform. There are many of the other suggestions in this option SV supports, and SV will, in doubt, support the proposal to get professional requirements into the law. So let's do that for a couple of reasons. The proposal, as it stands now, is lacking. That's absolutely right. There are professionals that are not mentioned here. The shelters have been talking about. Logopedene, ergotterapeutene – there are many who should be mentioned. And SV is not as convinced as the Workers' Party and the Centre that what solves this is just to have skills requirements. We fear that, despite the legislation that is coming, we will experience major shortcomings, and that we may also have very little jobs and meet the requirements of the law. It would be interesting to hear whether the Minister of Health believes this is a meeting of the requirement, or whether the government parties believe it is, because this has to be ensured that there are actually professionals present to do the job. SV believes it in this area, and we were not quite very excited about the change that was made under the previous government. We think this is going to be the right step now, but the step isn't far enough, and we're going to come back to this with a better and more comprehensive formulation. I hear several others are also interested in it. I hope that those who are now involved in this understand that the local authority sector also needs professional competence in matters of climate and environment and nature. There are also no skills requirements, and values can be destroyed for all generations to come if you do not have the skills in place. SV will also refer to its own proposals on manning standards, e.g. in the care of the elderly, as it is also necessary, in addition to this. So to the last point that I'm going to say a little bit about, and that's in the extension of the discussion about dentistry. There is a proposal today asking to build up a dental competence in the municipalities. We are also going to vote in favour of that proposal – a little under doubt. That's because we see that there are very good reasons for having dental care, especially related to care for the elderly. But we fully agree with those representatives – I think it was among other things. Kjersti Toppe from the Center Party – which said that there must of course be cooperation here. Whether or not he/she is employed in the county dentistry, or whether or not he/she is employed in the municipality, is not important to us. What's an important step on this, is to see that kind of dental competence needs to be close to the patients, because that's where you need to see this in context. The debate on the fact that the responsibility for the teeth lies with the county council and something lies with the state – it's just a mess. The point is that if health professionals see that someone needs dental treatment, they have to be able to pick up the phone and fix it. But in the nursing homes, there's a need for dental skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5108	When the Stortinget examined the government's proposals in the Task and Primary Health Service Communication, the majority largely endorsed the direction that the government described for the further development of the municipal health and care service. In the opinion of the Committee on the Primary Health Communication, the Labour Party, together with the majority, also gave its assent to: ‘that a new municipal structure with a wider professional environment can improve the ability of municipalities to provide high-quality health and care services in line with both current and future needs.’ The majority of the population also agreed to the measures proposed by the government, including: a number of legislative proposals that the government has now followed up through Prop. 71 L for 2016-2017. The legislative proposal proposes to lay down the legal requirements for the competence of municipal health and care services. Access to the right competences is a prerequisite for municipalities to provide necessary and sound health and care services. Prosperity neutrality, which was the mantra of the previous government, I believe is wrong. We need clear, proud professionals in the primary health service. Among other things, we see: the quality of the services of older people varies too much, both between municipalities and within municipalities. We have therefore started the Life Reform throughout our lives, the aim of which is for all older people to receive good services wherever they live. Legislation on the competence of municipal health and care services will be an important contribution, among other things. in this work. Increased competence and multi-disciplinaryism are also a prerequisite for developing good solutions, multidisciplinary cooperation and team organisation. I am therefore pleased that the majority supports the proposal to legislate on competence requirements. Municipal responsibility for health and care services is extensive and complex. Municipalities must have access to a wide range of staff, with different competences, in order to provide necessary and sound services. The legalisation of competence requirements will not be exhaustive as to the type of competence or professional qualifications to be provided by each municipality. In addition to the core competence that legalisation will entail, the municipality itself has to assess the type of personnel it needs to attach to fulfil its responsibilities for a sound and necessary health service. In the proposal, I propose to legislate a guidance obligation for the municipal health and care services and the specialist health service and to clarify the municipality's responsibility for patient, user and family training. It is proposed to clarify the responsibilities of the service for preventing, detecting and averting violence and sexual abuse. The law also clarifies the municipal responsibility for psychosocial preparedness and follow-up. These are also proposals to which the majority subscribe. In line with the wishes of the majority of the population for the treatment of the task message and the primary health service notification, the government proposed changes to the laws transferring public dental care from the county municipalities to the municipalities. The proposition stated that such a task transfer would take place from 2020 onwards. However, the majority of the Committee has asked for a voluntary testing scheme for municipalities wishing to transfer responsibility for the public dentistry at the earliest from 1 January 2020 onwards. The testing scheme shall allow about 15 municipalities to take over the responsibility for the public dental service from that point on. Participation shall be based on voluntary participation by the municipalities and a complete transfer of care-care responsibilities for both the specialist dental and the general dentistry services shall take place. The government also asks to assess the need for financial incentives, so that several municipalities will apply to take over dental services in the testing scheme. The majority have also requested that the scheme be monitored until 2023, and that the government start work on building up dental skills in the municipalities. On this basis, the majority have requested that the government return with its own case assessing the transfer of the overall dental care service based on the experience gained from the trial scheme and which may provide the basis for any decision to transfer public dental care from 2023 at the earliest. This is an important matter. The legislative proposal adopted today provides an important legal basis for this. I am convinced that the experience of the trial scheme will show that it is absolutely correct that the primary health service and the municipality also have a responsibility for dental care. Not least, it is important to create a closeness to the rest of the primary health services in municipalities and a closeness to those users that we see today are not reached by the public dentistry but who have rights under the law. Thus, the pilot scheme will make a good contribution to understanding why such reform will be necessary in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5132	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5137	So the government has decided to legislate some of the professions that many people have been involved in here. Several have also mentioned that the problem may not be the one that is legislated, but that many very important professionals, who may become more important in the years to come, are not statutory. I want to mention specifically health professionals, but also, as many people have mentioned here, activists, protectors, music therapists, logo-peders. Then is my question to the Minister of Health: does he not see that there can be an imbalance between the offer provided by the municipality and the exact, real need needed by an increasingly diverse population?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5142	I believe there are some very basic competence needs in order to be able to operate a modern primary health service, and that the professionals that Stortinget in this law imposes legal requirements for all municipalities to have are a very basic competence in order to be able to provide primary health services today. Therefore, we do not propose an exhaustive list, but we believe it is right to point out that this kind of profession – midwife, nurse, health care sister, doctor, physiotherapist, psychologist, ergotterapeut – is competence that a municipality must have, and that it is right to legislate for this kind of profession. What the Workers' Party has foreshadowed, to have a professional neutrality in the municipalities, is just a line of argument to weaken the competence of primary health services and to neutralize the type of profession that you have. No, it's not neutral, but very important to the quality of the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5149	I was very happy when I heard the first part of the answer from the Council of State. He actually answered the question, but then he couldn't stop attacking, for which he has increasingly used the question institute. Anyway, thank you for the first part of this answer. But I want to ask you one more time, and it depends on the size of the position. We know that one problem is that there are very many small posts. Can't it be then, as it's been said in the past in this room, that fulfilling the legal requirement means that you have one 20 pst. position here and one 25 pst. position there, which insofar as many municipalities also have today, but as this legislation does not do anything better. What does the Council of State think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5156	I think that in most of these areas it would be very unwise for municipalities to offer low job homes, because these are people who are very long-awaited and who want to have full-time jobs. That's why, lucky to see, the use of part-time positions goes down. But then we have some challenges in some of these areas, for example. in the case of psychologists, that some municipalities feel that they are too small to have full positions in this type of service. That is precisely why this primary health message is linked to the community reform. As the Labour Party joined in the setting of the primary health notification, it is a reality that the tasks that are already in the primary health service have grown out of the municipalities. Local authorities have growing pains related to health care tasks, not least as a result of the interaction reform of the previous government. Therefore, it is so important that there is full pressure on continued municipal reform in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5161	I have a question about health professionals, which should not be legalised in the same way as other health professionals. Based on the response given by the Council of State to the previous representative, one would believe that the Council of State believes that the competence of health professionals is not necessary, is not part of the basic competence of the municipalities to operate municipal health and care services. The health professionals were excluded from the primary health message, and the Council of State has been aware that in Stortinget he has said that the nurses are the largest group working in the municipalities. My question is: does the Council of State believe that the competence of the health professionals is not necessary to perform completely basic health and care services in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5168	I find it difficult to imagine that a municipality can provide health services without employing health professionals, nor is it right that health professionals were excluded from the primary health notification. The health professionals were mentioned several times in the primary health message, and I have also documented that on social media and to the trade union several times. A repeated error will not be correct even if it recurs. It is quite clear that municipalities will also need to employ health professionals. However, in the statutory context of the professional competence of a municipality, we believe that for some of the college groups, we need to have a statutory requirement to have these kinds of professionals in the service to ensure good quality, and among them, nursing skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5175	Many municipalities are struggling to obtain firm doctors, and if you transfer dental services to them, the challenge may also be there on the dentist’s side. Prior to dental health, one of the safety features of the municipalities has been that if a dentist gets sick, the county council has taken care to ensure that a temporary worker has arrived at all times, ensuring continuity, especially for children and young people, in the municipalities. It is also the county councils that have agreements with the specialist health service on, for example, Anesthesia, and it is those who ensure an education for all dentists to see violence and assault, and ensure knowledge of new things. So my question during the hearing has been clear: what is it that makes the Council so sure that the dental services are going to the county municipalities in the long term, when all the hearing bodies are so unambiguous?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5182	The simple answer to that is that if the county councils had been responsible for the fixed medical system today, we would have got exactly the same arguments against transferring the fixed medical system to the municipalities. The teeth aren't different. It is entirely illogical that the responsibility for that part of the primary health service should be with the county municipalities, at least after the regional reform recently adopted by the Stortinget. Today's county councils are no longer responsible for dental care. There are large sub-regions, where there is an even greater distance between those in charge and those in charge of health care. And we see that it's a challenge that part of those who have legal rights related to dentistry today do not get the help they need. I believe that there is too much distance between the responsibility for the service and those who will have it. It's difficult, and I haven't seen any good examples of municipalities that have managed to integrate dental care as part of their primary health service, just because responsibility is divided into two levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5187	It's a little serious, I think, that the Council of State is taking the warnings from all the professional communities about dental health so easily. So this health service works well, and if you think that some of it doesn't go far enough, it's quite possible to make demands that ensure this, even from the Council of State and from the Storting. And is there any chance that there would be greater professionalism in this in municipalities that are small, or a little bit larger, by breaking up this service, which has now built up over several years to have good competence, both on what they do a lot of, that is, tending the teeth of our children and our young people, but also for example. to groups who have major traumas and who really need specialised treatment? What are the professional environments on which the Council of State supports itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5193	In the case of specialised odontological centres, they have been protected in the billing process by a special scheme, precisely to ensure the top-notch environments in a situation where the main responsibility for dentistry is transferred to the municipalities. So it's interesting to hear the debate on dental services, not least the huge rose of dental services from SV and the Center Party. I think I can claim that dental care may be the most centralised part of healthcare in the last ten years. The counties have closed down a number of decentralised dental clinics and centralised them. There are fewer, quite large environments, and there's been a lot more distance for people, for children, when it comes to getting to the dental clinic now than it was before. But I record that the centre party and SV believe this has given good quality and good coverage, and there is something to take with them further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5200	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5205	In many different debates, government parties — and the Council of State — have ignored the fact that the Workers' Party has failed to impose requirements on staff in the care and care sector, but there are direct errors. This can be done. We believe that there is such an absolute need for competence, but that requirement must apply to all professions in the municipal health service. What we're skeptical about is to legislate certain prostheses, to which this proposition adds up, and that someone then doesn't get legalized, because we believe that a more professionally neutral law regulates the municipal duties in a more dynamic and better way. Such a way of organising services can provide a wider range of services, while at the same time ensuring that quality indicators and skills requirements are given greater scope in the description of the services to be provided by the municipality. It allows for local adaptations, greater freedom of action and the organisation of services based on local needs. There were a whole bunch of professionals who had been legislated before. It didn't work very well. There was a choice between throwing away half or two thirds, and then leaving someone behind, or making it a professionally neutral law and rather making demands on competence. That's what was the starting point for what we did that time. Many patients and users will need health and care services that require contributions from several professionals. Professionally neutral legislation will support cross-cutting services and can contribute to cooperation between sub-services. Professionally neutral legislation may also discourage the appearance of legal professionals as more important than those explicitly regulated. In addition, the law-making of individual prophecies could weaken the ability of municipalities to be innovative. The government does not require the size of the posts you have legalised, e.g. related to population. A 20 pst. Physiotherapy status can meet legal requirements, even if the need is much greater. It will not give the population much more publicly funded physiotherapy treatment, to say what it is. An important quality of health and care services is that you have enough people employed. The competitionlift 2015, which came under the Stoltenberg II government, gave over 22,000 new annual works in municipal care and care over eight years, where more than 80 pst. had relevant education. It is then worrying to see that, while the tasks are increasing in the municipalities, the annual growth rate is falling. Over the last four years, growth has been only 1500 to 2000 annual works, while under the red-green government there was an average of 2 800 new annual works. And then it goes slowly with continuing training, which is co-financed by state resources. We want the state to take a larger part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5218	The reason why I subscribe to another post is that the post from representative Karin Andersen of SV is linked to the fact that the trial arrangements and the transfer to the municipalities must be stopped. I would rather say that the trials we are now in favour of should be carried out. Because there is a need to try. We have twelve local medical centers in Norway. There aren't many of them. We have 428 municipalities and 48 hospitals, and why we don't have more local medical centers, I don't understand. There is a need to coordinate services in the type of local medical centres and build them up, and it is often a task for the new regions. Trials should be carried out among the fifteen with the type of local medical centres, including: by getting out of hospitals the specialised dentists who are principally in outpatient day care. To draw a tooth, a wise man, which you might have to do in a hospital, you can do in a local medical center. But it may also be that dental services can be collected in a local medical centre. There's a lot of possibilities here. There is a lot that has not been tested in the Norwegian health service of pure conservatism and laxity and lack of tariffs. It's convenient just to let it scour and go. But that is absolutely necessary. We're talking about developing health guards. That's absolutely right. State Council Bent Höie has spoken loudly about it, and I have supported him in it. But in those health guards, maybe it should also occasionally be a dentist. Well, at least there should be a psychologist there, and not just a medic. We have to do some of these tests, and I hope that some of the merged municipalities can take on that task, and not just the big city councils. They can do a great job of dental care. But I don't think they're going to bottle the districts of dentists for that reason and throw themselves over these trials. I hope we get a variety of trials. So it's very good that we also get the dental care into the municipalities and put the search light on the dental health of the elderly, but not just for those who live in institutions. More and more older people are going to live at home as far as possible, and the more health professionals entering that home, the better it is for those living at home for as long as possible. They suffer that they do not receive so much regular visits and need everyone who sneaks in. So the state council said in the line change that there are growing pains in the municipalities today, and that, among other things. This is because of the inter-actional reform. That's right. There is also a reason why we should not cause them further growing pain in the next few years by transferring dental services to the municipalities now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5231	It is said in the debate by many that dental services work very well under the responsibility of the county council today. Yes, it works well for a lot of people, but not for everyone. Many of those with strong rights are those who get at least help: the elderly, the caregivers, the disabled who live in an institution, those who do not have the opportunity to go to the county dental clinic. These are the ones we wanted to give a better and more holistic service, because we know that services are not good enough today. I must honestly say that I do not fully understand the logic of those who are talking about the community reform as a centralisation reform. However, in the case of dental care, it is clearly quite possible that these services are centralised under the responsibility of the county council, far from the ordinary municipal services. It is really amazing that the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and SV have no confidence that the municipalities can handle the dental tasks. They are responsible for everything but their teeth – complex, advanced health care. Although we primarily wanted a complete transfer of dental services, we are pleased that we have received a majority for a probationary system for those municipalities that want to take over the responsibility. Because we know some municipalities want this. Then we also have an opportunity to evaluate whether citizens get better dental care when they are integrated with the other municipal services. We hope that both municipalities and municipalities will apply for responsibility until 2023. We will then have a comprehensive basis for carrying out a broad evaluation. Concluding this with professional requirements. So you have to have a relationship with what creates quality in the community care services. The working party keeps saying that they're busy with enough people. Yeah, maybe we'll split up a little bit. We're also busy with enough people, but we're also busy with the wise heads, the ones with the skills to deal with the craziest older ones, the ones we're going to get many of in the municipalities ahead, and who are totally dependent on us having core competence. If there is a government change until the harvest, the reversal list starts to be long. It is almost that one would think that any new government must have its own reversing minister. I could imagine asking the Labour Party whether this is also one of the areas that will be on that list: Should the Labour Party opt to reverse these professional requirements, so that you go back to a professionally neutral health and care service law, which we believe is definitely not the basis for building strong professional services to provide better quality services to those who need it most in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5244	There's a need for both professionals and enough people. It does not help to have quality requirements if there are not enough people on the job to do the job for which you have set a quality standard. Here, the representative Treen also needs to see that crew standards are needed, and that other professionals are needed to ensure that this is possible. There's no contradiction. It's a prerequisite for good municipal services that you have both. So to dental health: why do we not think that the municipalities can do this, ask the representative Trøen I have been sitting at hearings. There are no municipalities that have asked for it. KS has said no and said that this works well. Why destroy something that works, just because someone needs it to be some task to transfer when justifying a municipal reform? If it's the case that dental health doesn't work well for any groups, what has the government done to correct it of requirements for the organisation of dental health to be such that it's not inaccessible to any groups? It's a responsibility the minister has. It's a responsibility the majority has. You can't run away from that responsibility. It is this hall and the government that are responsible for the functioning of dental services. You can make a change that you say corrects this, which is contrary to what people who work with this – everyone who has dental competence – say. Then you can make a change to reach these patients. But to make another change that says the county authorities have to do the same thing, it's obviously not possible. It doesn't make any sense at all. Of course it's possible. And to the representative Kjeseth: It may well be that these are things we're going to experiment with in the future. We may need more district medical centers, and it may well be there that there should be a dentist, but why is it so terribly dangerous to cooperate? The Left joins today, contributes to more intercommunal cooperation because it is fragmented and opens up both in dental and public transport. It is a reality. It's in the propositions. Why is it so dangerous to have cooperation between the county's dental and municipal dental services or a medical care service where you can co-locate if you need it? There's no problem. The problem arises when you want to break up the robust professional environments that exist and for which you have argued so strongly in other areas. If you want to strengthen this, you get to strengthen it – don't break it up and destroy it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5255	The representative Troen is talking about reversing. From the point of view of the Workers' Party, we are committed to changing, enforcing and reversing according to how the system and the law work for the services that we want to provide to the population. That's what's going to be governing for what we're doing. It's a little tempting to say that by doing what you do in dentistry, you recommunerate it now against all the professional advice. It might not be any better. At least it'll be exciting to see how it works. It has to be how this works for the living life out in the municipalities, which is going to determine what the Workers' Party is going to do. That's what we're going to measure the services. If the law that's now done is enough, it's very good. It didn't work like that last time. We have to take many, many more steps, not least towards those professionals who are not legalized and who come into disrepute very quickly, but who the population needs. It's e.g. It's very strange that health professionals are not legal if you're first going to make laws. That will require the older population to a much greater extent than what we see today. Health professionals are a profession that is replaced by unskilled people in many places, but you can't replace a nurse with an unskilled nurse to do nursing tasks you need authorization to do. Most municipalities have nurses. Most municipalities have games. Most municipalities have physiotherapists, psychologists or agreements on such services. What we need more is, for example, activists and nutrition physiologists, who we have talked a lot about in this room with an active health and care committee present. I just want to say that it's how laws and rules work in the living life out in the municipalities where people live, which is crucial to what the Workers' Party is going to do when we hopefully get government power in the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5266	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute. The president allows himself to remember that there are still ten things left on the agenda, and we've been on for twelve hours soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5273	Thanks for the reminder. Back to the representative Karin Andersen. Since you're from Hedmark and I from Uppland, and you don't like us any hospitals, we have to cooperate. We are looking for solutions and the actors who are willing to do so. We're going to have seven local medical centers in Uppland, and we're going to have to fill them with something, for example. dental services. We have to look for opportunities to go across the board, and so we need these trials to try this out. It is about competence, funding and new technologies that are raging into the health sector. Where there is a great need, as Mr. Tove Karoline Knutsen said, the activists, the dentists, the dentists and several of them use technology much faster than some of the professionals we are legislating today. Legislation is a minimum requirement for competence, while many other actors are required to contribute in the future. Then we have to do these trials.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5282	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5298	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5307	The Health and Welfare Committee has dealt with Prop. 75 L from the government, which involves changes in several laws in the field of health and care. Most of the proposals concern children and children’s right to participation and determination when they receive health and care services, parental consent in the vaccination of children following the paediatric vaccination programme and the care of health professionals for children as a relative of the sibling with serious health problems and who left behind for parents and siblings who die. An overall committee welcomes the fact that children's rights are clearly reflected in the law. It is very good for children and young people in healthcare, but it is important to work to ensure that this group of patients and users are better cared for. From a child of 12 years of age, there is today some possibility for health professionals not to inform parents when children have reasons for respecting them. The proposal introduces a narrow access to parental information even when the child is under 12 years of age and hesitant consideration of the child speaks against informing the parents. The Committee points out that Psychiatric HealthThe experts at the Change Factory have been working for such a change, based on experience from several of the children where parents have automatically gained insight into the contact between the young and mental health services. However, limited information necessary for parents to fulfil their parental responsibilities shall be provided to their parents. A requirement is introduced that when providing such information, the child be briefed. Children who are related to siblings who are patients with mental illness, drug dependence or serious somatic disease or injury, or who are left behind after parents or siblings who die may have special needs for information and follow-up as children who are related to parents. The legislative proposal therefore imposes an obligation on health professionals to identify and address the information and follow-up needs of these vulnerable children. The members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre have also taken note of the hearing by the Adults for Children, who propose a comprehensive legal regulation for children as relatives who guarantee independent rights and good and holistic services. These parties support the intentions of such legal regulation, which is to strengthen children as relatives. The Committee also notes that it is proposed to harmonise the criminal provisions for offences of professional secrecy under health law with the criminal provisions for offences of professional secrecy under criminal law. In addition to the proposal for amendments to the Health Care Act of a more technical nature, the Proposition contains: I don't go into it any more. It is a unanimous committee that gives its advice and asks the Stortingeten to support the proposal. A minority of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left also have a proposal that I think they themselves will explain and possibly promote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5328	The legislative changes we are adopting today are important because they strengthen and clarify the legal position of children and young people. I think it's important that we take action to strengthen the child's perspective. There is nothing more important than seeing and taking care of each child, and children who are subjected to violence and abuse must be seen and properly received and taken care of in the healthcare system, as well as in child protection, police and children’s homes. I just want to say a little bit about what I think is the most important legislative change we're adopting today. It is the change in the Patient and User Rights Act that relates to the disclosure of information about a child to parents or others who have parental responsibility. What we want with the amendment of the law is to help secure children, increase their trust in health care and ensure that they are properly cared for. A single committee emphasises the need to provide good guidance on how to apply the exemptions from the general rule, so that a complex set of rules does not prevent the proper follow-up of children and the proper guidance of the regulatory bodies. The Committee considers that good governance of this change in legislation will help to strengthen the role and participation of children in healthcare. The majority of the Committee emphasises, as the government does in the proposition, that it is the assessment of what will be best for the child, which is crucial when assessing whether to provide information to parents or not, or to others with parental responsibility. Important considerations could be drawn in each direction, and personnel need to balance the considerations to be given to ensure that the child’s needs are met in the best possible way. There are others who believe that changes to the laws do not go far enough. We believe, as I said, that this amendment should strengthen the perspective of children while at the same time taking into account the role of parents. But we don't know this. That is why, together with the Left and the Centre, we are promoting a proposal that this should be closely followed up in the future, so that we can be sure that our intention is actually fulfilled. We need to know that children are well protected. The law must be practised in such a way that children and young people are safe and able to cope with health care and are heard. The Centre Parties therefore promote the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to evaluate continuously the changes in the Patient and User Rights Act on the obligation to inform parents, in order to ensure that the introduction of the exemption from the obligation to inform parents ensures the best interests of children. The size shall be appropriately informed and at the latest within three years.’;» Together with the Center Party and the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party is showing in the setting of the Hearing Play by Adults for Children, which proposes a comprehensive legal regulation for children as relatives who guarantee independent rights and good overall services. We support the intention of such regulation, and that it takes on its own responsibility to strengthen children as relatives. The Christian People's Party is voting in favour of all the proposals for legislative changes and what we share with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5346	The representative of Olaug V. Bollestad has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5351	My installation should not be so far. I join each word of the previous speaker. The centre batch ends at this proposition and the various changes proposed. I only have a few comments on what is particularly discussed, this by introducing a narrow access into patient and user rights law not to inform parents or others who have parental responsibility, when the patient or the user is under 12 years old, and the recordings we have received from some hearing authorities that one does not go far enough, and that the limitation is too narrow. It is particularly the wording that ‘heavy considerations’ should be discussed, as this can be discussed. What are ‘heavy considerations’ in the sense of this law? Someone says that a child says that they don't want the information to go to parents is ‘heavy’ in itself. So we're concerned that you have to look at how this law is practiced, and that this leads to children being safe in the health system. That is why we are also voting in favour of the proposal for a running evaluation which has been taken up by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5360	SV is not in the committee, and that is why I need to say that we support the proposition, and we also support the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left. We believe that this is an important legislative change, which should ensure that children are able to bring difficult things to health professionals, too, because we know that sometimes happens. We know that the balances can be difficult, but it's important that the change that is now being made can actually lead to change. If we don't check if it's changed, we don't want to know. I'm very impressed by why it's not a total mass that is behind finding out if this actually works the way you've thought, that the children can feel safe, and that parents are also sure that they get the information that needs to be, in the cases that it might be right. It would have been nice to get an explanation of why you don't want to evaluate such a change, which everyone thinks is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5365	Then the next speaker is Ketil Kjeseth. Before he is given the floor, the President will draw attention to the fact that the regulatory time is soon to come, but the President proposes that we continue the meeting until today’s map is finalised – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5370	I'm not going to use a lot of speaking time, because of course we're supporting the proposition. But we do have that proposal together with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party on an evaluation and follow-up along the way, which is very important for children under the age of 12 who do not want to communicate information about assault and violence, and that they are not taken into account. These are often close relatives. We have to get better at that, and that's the message we get from the children who from early, early age are subjected to serious abuse. They tell us that we need to have an opportunity to talk to health professionals, but that information does not have to be passed on. We must learn from this, and we must take those children seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5375	Several of the changes proposed and adopted today will lead to a strengthening and clarification of children’s and young people’s rights as patients and users. Two of the most important proposals are a direct result of the commitment to BarnsBest and the Change Factory, which early took up with me the challenges of today's law, and I'm glad they've been heard in this context. The balance for different reasons lies behind several of the changes in the patient and user rights law as regards children and the participation and participation of young people. I believe that there are important reasons why the general rule should still be that both children and young people and parents should be informed when health and care services are provided to children and young people under 16. Parental responsibility includes providing care and care and provides both the right and the obligation to make decisions on behalf of and in consultation with children and young people. In most cases, parents have the best assumptions for this. For children and young people, it is therefore usually quite natural and desirable to inform their parents. Its younger children are, the greater is the need for information and proper care and follow-up. At the same time, a derogation should be introduced from this obligation to inform parents even when children are under 12 years of age, in addition to the current exemption from the obligation to inform their parents when they are between 12 and 16 years of age, and have reasons for this which should be respected. It is important to provide for such derogations when health professionals are informed that children may be in a serious situation, where the best consideration for the child is that the information is not passed on to their parents. The exemption is limited to cases where serious consideration of the child is opposed to informing the parents. The Health Directorate will provide information and guidance on the exemption by updating the circular and posting information on its websites. Nevertheless, it must be emphasised that it is incredibly important to facilitate wise and good practice, so that this derogation helps vulnerable children to dry up and provide information on the situation, so that they can get help to get out of it. The change of laws is important to create a foundation for this, but there is a change in service in practice in dealing with children, creating trust with the child and ensuring that the child can speak openly in difficult situations, which are crucial to our success. The Committee also proposes that vaccination in line with the pediatric vaccination programme should be provided directly by the Patient and User Rights Act as a part of the day-to-day regular care of the child. It is sufficient that one of the parents, or others with parental responsibility, consent to vaccination. Child vaccination is carefully tested, safe and recommended and allows us in Norway to control many infectious diseases that were prevalent in the past. This is a good clarification of the law, adopted today. In 2009, provisions of the Health and Special Health Services Act were introduced to ensure that health professionals identify and meet the information and follow-up needs of minor children as a result of being related to parents who are patients with mental illness, drug dependence or serious somatic illness or injury. Children'sBest early brought up with me that minor children who are related to the sibling with such serious health problems, or left behind after parents and siblings who die, have the same needs. The proposals shall contribute to ensuring that health professionals provide the necessary assistance and support in a systematic and sound manner to this vulnerable and vulnerable group of children. The proposals I have now mentioned, as well as several of the other proposals, will help to strengthen the legal position of children and young people. The perspective of children and young people will be even better taken care of when they receive health and care services. I believe this is a quite natural development of our legislation, where we now make it clear in several areas the child's independent role in dealing with health care. These are important legislative changes, which are adopted, hopefully, later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5405	Several have not asked for the floor. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 7 and 8 are dealt with as a whole – and this is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5434	I noticed that I had a speaking time of 30 minutes. I'm not going to use that. The Committee agrees that we should probably not debate so much in this matter, but I should like to brief you briefly as the case rapporteur. This concerns two important propositions at the request of the Council of Europe, among others. to provide access to transplants — a new organ — and to combat trafficking in human organs as much as possible in Europe. Access to transplantation is important, and not all countries in Europe are as lucky to have as good an approach as we have had in Norway for many decades. However, the situation is challenging also for Norway. Life-style diseases, including: more people who get diabetes and live longer with it, leading to many ending up, among others. in dialysis, and unfortunately more and more have to have access to a new kidney. In Norway, in particular, kidneys are a challenge, and it is therefore important that we have such a capacity and organisation of the transplant activity and donation activity in Norway that as much as possible can be accessed and must not wait too long. The situation of kidneys in Norway is particularly challenging because fewer donors are so-called live donors. This means that fewer people are likely to be investigated out there, and there is evidence of a capacity and organisation outside hospitals that are not optimal. Then we also have a challenge with that 30 pst. by those who die and can give an organ, do not do so either because he has not taken a stand or because his relatives say no. There's also a situation that we have to do something about. A few years we've been all the way down to 17 pst. the share of the refusal, so that it is possible to do something with that proportion. To this end, the Committee calls on the government to look at both the organisation and capacity of hospitals and by electronic means, so that more people are able to decide on organ donation. I'm thinking in particular about the patient records, that for example. is possible to check for a ‘yes’ there, without the Committee being entirely specific on what electronic or digital consent to organ donation we want. About 200,000 have taken a stand. It's too few, so it'll help the situation considerably. That's the most important thing we can do to avoid organ tourism. We have received some input from, among others. organisations working with human rights in China and concerned that Norwegian citizens can be offered organs from China. The Falun Gong movement and others are concerned about organran in some countries around the world. The organs may come from there, while the transplant may take place in a country other than China for that purpose. What is certain is that those patients who in case go out and get a new organ become dependent on drugs for the rest of their lives and must have regular control of hospitals in Norway. They're easy to discover because they need vital drugs and help. It is also important that the warning systems work and that there is good cooperation between countries in Europe. Scandia transplantation is a well-established Nordic cooperation that works well, but there must be capacity and systematic cooperation that helps us to discover if this should happen. Fortunately, there are few examples of this in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5447	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8. At the request of the Committee of the Regions, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee. 9 and 10 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5477	Things take time – and then I'm not just thinking about big debates – but this case has gone through very quickly in the committee. We got it from the government on 5 May, and we've expedite it quickly. There is an overall committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, which agrees to amend the patent law and the pharmaceutical law to include the paediatric regulation, which I am very pleased to see. This case stopped in the previous government, it has stopped in Iceland, it has stopped in Liechtenstein – it has largely stopped everywhere, but when we got it on the Health Committee, it slipped through quickly. This means that companies wishing to invest in research into medicinal products for children will have extended patent time. It will provide more research on medicinal products for children and several medicinal products for children and, in particular, it shows that Norway is taking patent rights seriously. So this is a happy day for both those who are concerned with Norwegian research, Norwegian industry and not least Norwegian children's access to medicines. Then we need to understand that the Senterpartiet does not think this is a good idea because the penal jurisdiction is added to ESA – to the extent that some people deserve fines because they are researching medicines for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5484	The centre party is going to vote against this proposition. Although he has been treated in a timely manner in the Committee, after a long period of resistance, Norway is now yielding and participating in the transfer of penal authority and competence from the State Medicines Agency to a body in Brussels in the event of a breach of the Paediatric Regulation. Leaving agencies outside Norway with direct fines on Norwegian companies is considered to be a significant renunciation of sovereignty, and the red-green government insisted that such fines should be imposed against the pharmaceutical legislation that we are implementing, we must have national responsibility for. This is one of many regulations incorporated into Norway by virtue of the EEA Agreement, and the reason why the Central Party is opposed is not the result of the work. It's about the surrender of sovereignty, and that's why the Center Party will vote against the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5489	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Nine and ten.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5505	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5514	The farming industry is a major and important industry for Norway. The industry employs more than 4000 people and produces 1.2 million tonnes of fish per year. This is spread in almost 1,000 different locations around our country. Aquaculture is part of the future. We have natural assumptions that are unique in the world. The Gulf Stream gives us perfect flows and water temperature to operate with aquaculture. We need to facilitate sustainable growth in this industry. As the Committee refers to in the adjustment, this industry has grown by using the area belonging to the community and making use of it for production purposes. This has given growth in industry and value added to society. At the same time, it is right, as the proposers point out, that this has also led to conflicts – conflicts between the farming industry and other industries, such as fisheries, between industry and local communities and in terms of the environment. On previous occasions, the size has tried to prevent these conflicts and to impose requirements on the industry, for example: environmental challenges. In 2015, we also decided that a marine fund should be set up, and that 80 pst. future income from growth in industry would go to the Maritime Fund to acquire municipalities and counties as hosts for farming. In order for this fund to function according to its intention, we are dependent on sustainable growth in the industry, and it has been low in recent years. This is primarily due to the fact that few new concessions have been granted as a consequence of precisely what is going on following the sustainability criteria, which would contribute to lice control. Once the industry has gone down with the lusa, it can grow again. Several municipalities are now impatient to get their share of the values created on their land. When the Maritime Fund does not function as intended due to the low input of capital, the municipalities have requested that other arrangements be put in place to secure the municipality's share of the values. For this reason, the majority of the Committee has now voted in favour of establishing a production allowance for fish for the farming industry. The majority are now asking the government to start work on obtaining a levy per kilogram of exported unprocessed fish and return to the Stortinget in the state budget for 2018. The majority aim to allow the remuneration to enter into force no later than 1 July 2018. The revenue from this remuneration shall be allocated to the Maritime Fund and distributed to the municipalities by share of the locality capacity. The majority further request that the government investigate whether it is right to grant exemption from the levy, for example: for enterprises with a deficit. The introduction of a new fee is rarely popular with those who have to pay, but for the Christian People's Party and for the majority of the population, it is important that those affected by this production, who make the area available, get something for it. Using the community's resources to create values is good, but then the community will also get something for it. Also in the investigation from the Scheel Committee to the government a while ago, it is being called upon to do so, among other things. the introduction of a base rate taxation for the fisheries and aquaculture sectors should be considered. These are the same ideas that a majority of the business committee today is asking the government to move forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5531	First of all praise to the case spokesman for quick and constructive treatment and very good timing of the post here in the hall today! For the Workers' Party, it is important to use the opportunities provided by the sea for the creation of treasures. And it's a strength that there was a broad political plurality behind the growth of the aquaculture news, which supports the idea of how sustainable growth will happen in the future, and that the visions of the sustainability strategy are solid. Breeding has been a major industry in Norway, and the potential for growth in nutrition is high. The need for new land may become critical in the future in order to secure growth. I would like to point out that the industry also today adds great value in the local environment in terms of jobs, taxes and taxes and purchases of goods and services. For example, the supplier industry is today the largest industry in my state, Sogn and Fjordane. The industry uses the area belonging to the community to produce. The proposal also describes different conflicts that may exist between farming industries and, among other things, between farming industries. fisheries, environment and outdoor life. Of course, these conflicts need to be resolved. A single committee proposed the Marine Fund in the management of the notification of aquaculture. The Labour Party's primary model was not attached. Our model was what is currently part of the Maritime Fund and, in addition, the percentage of the export fee. Export fees are not a new fee. Now it's reduced from 0.85 to 0.3 pst. The industry well tolerates an increase that here such a situation is today. It's very gratifying that we're now getting a model where the income of the municipalities is not just based on growth, and that this only applies to unprocessed fish is even better. Let's introduce the growers who process the fish in Norway. Very good! The income of the Maritime Fund has been lost. In other words, it is an important commitment that is not met by the Maritime Fund. The revenue is missing. Then a wait-and-see hold helps a little. It is also unclear what the Council of State has actually done with the revenue that came after 1 January 2016. The Council of State was aware of the annual meeting of the network of fjord and coastal municipalities and agreed with me that all payments after this date would be made to the farm fund – although some municipalities have actually received payments for new concessions, payments of payments that have arrived after 1 January 2016. How much this actually is, I don't know. I'm asking the Council of State to do something for that very thing. What's happened? The distribution key between municipalities, state and state is not an inconsistency, so it leaves me in this round. For the Labour Party, it is important that the proposal also states that it should be clarified and assessed whether it is right to grant exemptions from the payment of the levy, for example. when the holdings are going under. For this reason, I am very surprised by the government party, which says that if one introduces a security valve here, the industry will primarily use the time and energy to adapt! An explanation of the mistrust of an entire industry is needed. I agree with the considerations about land taxes and production taxes, and that this is not right to be introduced. Nor is it in the Industry Committee that any proposal for a production tax of 25 øre per kilogram of fish, or a so-called area tax, which had also triggered a levy on, for example, the production tax. floating docks. A consideration of used land would also mean that one would have to have paid for set-aside land for whatever reason, even if it was for environmental reasons. A production fee has other challenges. It would also be inappropriate for the size to set a level that would have to be left in the Size slider to change. This should actually go to the government. It is very gratifying that today we have a multiplicity to secure the long-term and prudent income of the host municipalities, and that these revenues are not only based on growth. There is also no new tax burden and can be collected unbureaucratically and efficiently. This is all reported today, both on unprocessed and processed fish. The network of fjord and coastal municipalities, NFKK, has won and got an important say today. They have also been very active before all parties’ national meetings, reflecting all national meetings. Thank you and thank you to them!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5561	The marine industry is one of the most important export industries in this country. The growth rate in value creation in the aquaculture industry has been very, very strong over the past decades, both relative to the national economy and to industry. There is no doubt that aquaculture is important for the Norwegian national economy. In addition, she contributed to important activity and employment in municipalities along our coast. We need more workspaces, not fewer ones. All economic activity has negative aspects, including the aquaculture industry. We have challenges related to escape, salmon and fish health. We will always have challenges in biological production. We also have it in the agricultural sector, but no other food-producing sectors are so pervasive and followed up by public authorities as is precisely the aquaculture industry. Marine industry as a food producer has an important role on a global scale. Health authorities worldwide, including the World Health Organization, recommend increasing the intake of seafood in order to improve public health. The long-term growth potential in the industry depends to a large extent on the ability of industry, research and authorities to address environmental challenges in the short term related to escaped farmed fish and salmonids — but in the longer term also the challenges associated with the area and lack of feed. Time is definitely not in place to increase the fee per kilo of fish in an industry that still has a number of challenges to solve. Implementing a new tax now – which does not at all help solve any of the challenges we face on the environment – is the wrong way to go. The Stoltenberg II government paid a land tax in 2008 and concluded that a specific levy for aquaculture would not resolve the coastal zone conflicts of interest. The currently proposed fee may only increase these conflicts. Municipalities are given an economic incentive to allocate land to the aquaculture industry instead of other values for land needs that do not yield economic returns. We don't want such a development, that it's only economic that counts when the municipalities are going to set the area. This is also the wrong use of the tax system. If this tax, which has been proposed in this case, is fixed today, it is the third tax or charge that breeders have to pay, none of them give an incentive to reduce the environmental challenges that Stortinget has pointed to in the Inn. 361 S for 2014–2015, which we made in the work of the Aquaculture Communication. The overall tax system for the aquaculture industry should, in my view, be considered as a whole. It is possible that the collection of taxes and taxes on nutrition at the present level can be distributed to municipalities in a better and more conservative way than what today's marine and export taxes do. But changing before we have the newly adopted Maritime Fund in full operation will be a mistake. A time must appear, then to be evaluated. The industry has challenges in generating growth within the environmental requirements seen by the Storting, and there is a large investment in research and development, where development concessions are supported by the government. Norwegian Industry has referred to the scheme as the best industrial policy investment in several decades. Missing income from the farm fund comes from lower growth in the industry than many of us expected. The answer to this may be impossible to introduce a new tax. What the industry needs is growth. So the industry doesn't need new taxes. The growth comes when the industry meets environmental requirements and we get the new, agreed traffic light system to the fall. I strongly recommend that we reject this proposal and take time to evaluate both the farm fund and the technological progress we see in the development concessions. I present the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to carry out an overall review of the concession fee, technological development and evaluation of the scheme of development concessions in the aquaculture industry. The Marine Fund shall also be evaluated with a view to assessing the extent to which total taxes and taxes of industry provide incentives for the growth of aquaculture and the solution of environmental challenges and contribute to the participation of municipalities in the creation of value added. The aim is to ensure maximum growth and sustainability, as well as predictable income for municipalities through the Maritime Fund.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5583	The representative of Ove Trellevik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5588	Marine farming is important and will replace – a little in time – its revenues for the country, so we have great ambitions for the aquaculture industry. In the course of the Storting’s treatment of the marine message, Stortinget decided to create a marine fund with 80 pst. future income from industry growth shall be attributed to the municipalities and that this fund shall also allocate the funds between the municipalities according to the specified criteria. The reason was something we were all a few about: the municipalities have to get a greater share of the value creation for using their sea area. Due to low growth in industry, little income has been generated to the fund so far. This is primarily due to the fact that few new concessions have been granted as a consequence of the follow-up to the bearer power criteria set for action against lice. Thus, the Storting itself has ensured that the income of this fund does not come in the amount and as quickly as a trusted person – one has set environmental requirements that the industry needs to meet, and thus revenue will be significantly later. Several municipalities have expressed great dismay at the fact that the farm fund has not received the injection of the capital that the fund was intended to provide, and that this has taken a long time, we are all in so far as we are concerned. But this will change, and in this context we will show that the Council of State also points to the fact that the new growth system that enters into force in the autumn will have a major impact on the income of the Maritime Fund. Let me just stress again that if one is to achieve the goal of a significant increase in maritime nutrition, we have to let the municipalities get their fair share of the value creation for the abandoned sea area and other disadvantages. But then it is completely wrong to add up to a device where a tax haven of untreated unprocessed salmon is exported. This means that if one facilitates a processing company, the municipalities lose out on this, and it does not provide an incentive to create new, forward-looking jobs based on a commodity that is in demand over the world and that is healthy and good. So it's also about non-discrimination when it concerns the use of common land. There are many industries using the common area. Then the question is, if you want to treat it in a non-discriminatory way, what kind of fees can these industries get – we can take a forest, we can take mining, and we can take many more? Should these also get similar types of taxation? The document 8 describes that companies with a deficit should not pay this fee. Well, it's not going to be a lot of creativity to get a business to go under. It is simply about different ways of transferring resources. There are a lot of examples that you can get excess from one company to another, and then you can end up with the production company going under. There are so many possibilities to avoid this taxing that the whole proposal itself and the proposal presented is not thoughtful and unmanageable. It is simply going to be bureaucratic, uninvited and difficult to handle. Especially for the bureaucrats who are going to calculate the revenue here – when they are going to have so many parameters to consider – this proposal is simply inappropriate. The loose proposal made by the Right and the Progress Party is a good one. One goes into the problem and solves the challenges that lie there. That proposal also states that municipalities should have their fair share of value creation. We're also impatient on behalf of the municipalities, but we want a system that's tough, that's good, that the industry's on, that the municipalities are on, and not a thoughtless proposal that no one's ever on, because it's both bureaucratic and hard to deal with. My hope is that we will be able to create a plurality for that distribution and the loose proposal, proposal No. 1, which is at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5609	I want to start by thanking your suggestions. I would particularly like to thank the case spokesman, who both made a good contribution, to whom I agree, and put the words that it may be a little strenuous to sit on the Stortinget. One can become the breath of it. The centre batch is busy developing the farming industry. We think farming is an industry with a great potential. It is an important district industry, and it is an industry that ensures income for the country. That's why we need to grow in the breeding industry. If we're going to do that, it's not enough for the authorities to do it, and that the companies will – we also need the municipalities on the team. One has for a long time had expectations of the Maritime Fund. Under this government council, there has been very poor growth in farming, and little money has come into the fund. Now is the end of patience. It also applies to the majority in Stortinget. Now we want to have a tax to secure municipal income, and I am sure that this is a system with which the industry will be very happy when they have the opportunity to grow, and when they see that the municipalities set up and add the right area. The Marine Farm Fund is a good idea. The Marine Fund can provide large revenues to municipalities, but there are limits on how long you can expect. The representative Oskar J. Grimstad is very concerned about the arrangements of this scheme. First he's worried about it because it's a fee. In the next round, he's worried that people should avoid paying this fee. To that end, this fee and details should be paid, and one should find a good way to set it up before it is introduced. It is also a sign that it is approaching election fighting, when the Progress Party is in the pulpit and is concerned about growth in the number of bureaucrats. I suggested that the majority in the committee and in the configuration will also secure a majority for this scheme in the Stortinget today. It will be incorporated into a number of important issues where the Storting has indicated direction across what the State Council has proposed. We have a matter for consideration in the Committee on the drawing up of the compulsory system for cod trawlers. We recently had a debate on the so-called instruction case, where the Council of State was clearly instructed by the Stortinget. Today, the Council of State appears to be failing in terms of the area charge. It's a good day for the coast. We need growth in the industry, we need jobs, we need taxes, and we need value creation. But it won't happen unless the municipalities are also on the team. It's that finding this interaction that's so important. There's no unique signal from the industry that it's negative to this. If we are to achieve the target that has been set, if a strong growth in the farming industry, we need to take new action. We can't just do as the Right and Progress parties have proposed today, i.e. allow new layouts and new processes. Now it's time that the Storting put his foot down. The Central Party therefore supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5628	I think the introduction of a production allowance for the rearing of salmon, trout and rainbow trout has now come on track. I would like to thank the proposers for raising an important issue and also thank the representative, Mr Hemdal, for the well-implemented report. I am pleased that the party of the proposers, SV, does not support the proposal as it stands in the proposal itself, but that they are in agreement with the majority of the committee, which ‘allows the government to start work on the payment of a fee per year. kilos of unprocessed fish exported and returned to Stortinget in the State budget for 2018, so that the fee can enter into force no later than 1 July 2018.’» So the left wants to have it. Marine industry is one of our most important industries, and it is important that municipalities facilitate the development of the industry. A production allowance will stimulate the municipalities for such organisation. Several municipalities now express great impatience that if the challenges had been under control, the farm fund has not been given the injection of capital envisaged by the fund. There's more people in there, and we know the relationship there. But this is exactly what is at the heart of the fact that the Left now wants a production allowance. It is precisely to facilitate breeding activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5642	The fact that the Storting today, with a solid plurality, is going to introduce a fee into the farming industry to be paid to both state, county and municipalities for the production of unprocessed exported fish, thinks I am right and reasonable. There's a difference between what we're now going to adopt, and what was the proposal for SV, but the difference isn't that big. For us it has been important to establish the principle. If we're going to take a small historical strip with a broad brush: the farming industry as we know it today, start about at the same time as the breakthrough in the North Sea, in the petroleum sector. It began as a reintroduction for farmers and fishermen, and it is only the last few decades that she has got the dimension and size that she has today. From being an industry that was very locally organized and related to the local community, it has become a much larger industry, and ownership is not particularly local – many of the communities have extensive farming activities, where there are no owners anymore. The previous accounting year, the owners of this industry took exchange for 25 billion. kr. We're talking about a whole different scale than the original one, and the connection to the local is significantly weaker in the industry now than it was. In Finland, there are no local owners of breeding companies. It means that none of this exchange comes to Finnmark or any of the municipalities there. In Troms is 13 pst. Owned locally, the rest outside the county, and even outside the county. In Northernland, which is the largest farming community we have, well under half of the ownership outside the county. In addition, we see – as SV embraces – a very tiring technological development, which means that the work effort behind each kilogram of fish produced today is only one tenth compared to 20 years ago. This means that there are also fewer local workplaces compared to the number of fish produced. The sum is that this is a large and comprehensive industry, which spends a lot of money on efficient and good operation, but remains little at local level. An increasingly smaller part of the value creation remains in municipalities and counties. This is a classic situation, which we have been away many times before when creating an industry based on Norwegian natural resources. There is no one in this room who opposes the taxation of petroleum. No one here will be asked to remove that tax collection. No one in this room will be asked to remove the water-power taxing effect. That's exactly what this is about here -- to introduce the same principle. The use of our natural resources shall be taxed, and the revenues shall also benefit local communities. It's straight and reasonable, and it's in line with people's perception of what's right and reasonable, that it happens. Besides, this model isn't growth based, so it's not a growth driver. On the contrary, someone has pointed out that this will be a growth inhibitor. I believe that this is primarily a way of implementing a basic interest rate tax that benefits local communities and helps to create a stronger link between industry and communities – a link that has been weakened for a long time. The representative, Grimstad, was very concerned that if a non-processed fish did not receive income from the municipality. The representative, Grimstad, has not done his lesson. This follows the model of the aquaculture fund, which means that the income goes into a large fund, and then they go into distribution. So there's an objection that's not correct. It is only to be assessed whether or not a deficit is included in the billing process. For SV, it is important to see clear frames around this industry, which has gone from being an industry with a deficit to now having a completely different scale and becoming world leader in many ways. We need to create a framework for the local connection of revenues, and we need to create a framework for the environmental device, which is another matter, which should not be confused with it. Similarly, we must not confuse the taxation of hydropower or petroleum with the environment. We support this. We consider to look at the proposal of the Green Party on this issue, but we do not regard it as part of this tax debate, but as part of the greater regulation of the aquaculture industry in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5659	The main challenge facing the Norwegian farming industry is the environmental impact of the industry, both the environmental impact on the industry and the impact of the industry itself. Therefore, the Green Party is concerned that all changes in the framework conditions for the farming industry must contribute to solving this problem. This is a problem that has been promised to be solved for very many years, and the solution is still not coming. It must be a main task to help this industry solve this, which is a problem for the environment, but which is most likely to be a problem for the industry – in the worst case, a crucial problem if the luc and medication problem does not come under a completely different control from what we have today. That's why we're a little worried about the proposal that is being promoted today by the majority parties. As one of the SV proposers just mentioned, there is no environmental profile. We see that the proposal, as it is designed, can have the effect that it will only give municipalities a new and even stronger incentive to drive the growth of the farming industry further, without following up on the environmental measures needed in this situation. We are at risk of a situation where municipalities around the country experience even more that they cannot afford to say no to the approval of farms in their municipality because of a charge of this type. Of course, the Green Party sees, as far as I see it, that it is a reasonable principle that a fair share of the value-added in the farming industry, a breeding industry that produces huge profits, must fall to the municipalities and local communities that provide land and resources and that must take on the burdens of the industry. That is why we are going to vote subsidiaryly for the majority's proposal to introduce a production tax, but primarily we want a tax that has a unique environmental profile and that gives municipalities incomes that follow the environmental impact that farming plants provide, until they have become emission-free. We have therefore put forward a loose proposal which reads as follows: «The government asks the government to pay an environmental tax per year. kilos of unprocessed fish exported and returned to Stortinget in the State budget for 2018, so that the fee can enter into force no later than 1 July 2018. The fee shall provide clear incentives for conversion to safe closed installations without the release of lice, waste and chemicals.’;» A major feature of such a charge becomes natural enough that, at least during a transitional period, the charge has as its primary objective the removal of environmental problems. As a result, when the installation has solved the problems, closed operation or a similar good technology will be reduced and eliminated. An investigation of such an environmental tax should also include a plan for ensuring long-term predictability and reasonable income for municipalities, for example. through a State compensation or another form of expenditure that can be determined. As far as the proposal promoted by the Right and the Advance Party is concerned, it is not so far from what we have proposed, but it is so little ambitious on the environmental side and so traditional in its priority of growth as the main objective that we are leaving to vote in favour of it. I would like to bring up the Greens' proposals with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5684	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5689	When the Stortinge two years ago dealt with the notification of aquaculture, the Stortinge also dealt with the issue of an excise duty on the farming industry. Then Stortinget said no. They said that there should not be an area or production charge for the farming industry – i.e. two years ago. Then the Stortinget said 80 pst. future income from the growth of the farming industry would be attributed to the municipal sector through the Maritime Fund. The Maritime Fund is in place and will allocate a significant share of the income from future growth in the breeding industry between municipalities. I understand, like many, that the municipalities are impatient, but when the new growth system is used for the first time in the harvest, it will have a great impact on the aquaculture fund. A main objective of the new growth system was precisely to provide predictability for the industry, and I believe it does not contribute particularly to predictability that the majority will now impose a new levy on the industry until we have allowed the new system time to function. It's been one year since it was adopted. Although the farming industry currently achieves good economic results, I would remind you that only a few years have passed since farming went through a period of significantly low profitability, bankruptcy and restructuring. This situation also characterises parts of the industry today. I will, of course, deal with what the Storting decides, but I still allow myself to ask some questions and give some concerns about the specific proposal. The rationale is this: payment for the use of common land. I think many of us can join. Why is an export tax proposed for unprocessed fish? Isn't the area used to produce the fish being exported processed? Or what about the fish that is traded nationally? There is obviously no consistency between the objectives and proposals here. Furthermore, such a device does not take into account the profitability of the establishment. Although it is the exporters who get the bill, parts of it are usually pushed back to the manufacturers. The negative effects of such a charge may be particularly high for marginally profitable producers. The Committee is right to provide for exemptions when companies report a deficit. I guess this is the farm. However, it seems demanding to control primary profitability before a charge can be imposed at the export level. Nor will it necessarily be easy to practice if the export batch consists of fish from several breeding companies with different profitability. Such a derogation may also give the industry unfortunate incentives not to enter a fiscal position. Nor can I see that the Business Committee has considered how the proposed fee will stand against international trade obligations. When you export the fish, you have to have a fee on the fish that is unprocessed, i.e. those who have to process and process the fish outside the borders of the country, an extra charge, an extra cost, while if you process in Norway, you don't get that fee. I'm not saying that it's impossible, but there are some concerns about it. There are many loose threads in the majority proposal. I'm not hiding that I primarily think it shouldn't be imposed a fee now, but I respect it very much if the Stortinget wants to ask the ministry for an assessment of a fee. But then it must first be made clear what the purpose is. The proposal for a decision should be more transparent, so that, if possible, a device could be found which would best facilitate this purpose. In that case, it would be logical to look for a solution where a charge is levied at the primary level. Finally, I will be allowed to bring a heart attack. The time limit set is reasonably short. We do not have the right to levy such a charge today, and we will not be able to carry out both an adequate assessment of the proposal and a legislative amendment – with consultation of the legislative proposal – within the time limit outlined by the majority here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5710	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5715	It's been a long day, so I'm not going to make a new three-minute post. I will only respond quickly to what the Council of State said, because we are not introducing a new area or production fee today. No one is proposed. We also do not introduce any new tax burden, this actually applies to a tax that is currently in force. At the annual meeting of the NFKK, the Council of State was aware that all revenue received after 1 January 2016 was to be entered into the Maritime Fund and distributed according to that model. Has all the income from growth paid after 1 January 2016 entered the Maritime Fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5722	Yes, not only revenues that have been channelled after 1 January 2016, the Stortinget also decided that where concessions have been given earlier, where there was a 50-50 split, the money should be put into the fund. So all the revenue that has come with a background in growth since 1 January 2016 has entered the fund. Today, it's a little over 60 million. kr in the fund. Now the directorate and the quality assurance department operate and have to pay out this money. But it's not easy either, because there are some criteria here that relate to the distribution to the municipalities, depending on where the growth has come from. Then I have to be allowed to say that when questions are asked about this, you have to think about what is the purpose of the increase in production and the growth regime that comes on 1 October of this year – when you are impatient after one year. There has been no particular growth, and therefore it is also quite natural that there is no large amount of money in the fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5729	It's been two years since we were here in the hall discussing this matter. The Council of State may not be able to answer this in concrete terms, but I would like to know how much money was paid to the Marine Fund in the period from 1 January 2016 to 1 January 2017 – in one year. And what happened to the payments that came after new concessions, which came after 1 January 2016, but which had already been paid after an old model, to the municipalities, before the annual meeting to the NFKK, where the council turned? Did the municipalities keep these? If yes, is it compensated, so that they have entered, as promised, into the entire full payment of the Marine Fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5734	I just have to honestly admit that I don't understand the question. But I will repeat: all revenue from increased growth, from 1 January 2016, has entered the Maritime Fund. It now says 60.4 million. kr. Here the directorate is now working on the distribution, because there are some criteria on the basis of where the growth has come from, and which municipality has had the growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5739	I am pleased that the Council of State says that it is not impossible to impose such a charge, but that he has some concerns, and that he does not recommend imposing such a charge now. I also understand that the Council of State wanted a more open decision from the staging room, based on his line of reasoning. My question relates to what the Council of State concluded its submissions with, relating to the possibility of imposing such a fee by July 2018. It is over a year until we write 1 July 2018. When can such a charge be adopted, when we now write June 2017, with the time limits to which the Council of State has to deal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5744	First, I would like to say that when I say that there are some trade policy challenges here, I would like to stress that measures of this kind need to be carefully assessed, both in relation to the EEA Agreement and, not least, to all relevant aspects of the various WTO agreements that lie there. With our strong export dependence, we're totally dependent, and I think we all agree that what we're doing here at home is also international. It's very important. Then I have interpreted the proposal so that this should be in the budgetary position for 2018, and that is not a year. The budgetary procedure and the budgetary adjustment will start in August, so this will be on the table in December, I understand, on the basis of the proposal. But if you don't want to have a final position when the 2018 budget setting is in place, you have better time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5751	It is true, what the Council of State says, that it says that one should come back to the Stortinget in the state budget for 2018, but there is no doubt that in the matter of remuneration, we now not only have a minority government that is opposed, we also know that there are strong forces that are otherwise opposed. That is why you have been willing to take a new stop in Stortinget, because in a year's time I think this big business is going to be revised, and it has been taken into account by the case rapporteur in order to have the press tool that this time we have set the direction, the bulk of the population has said that we want this, but we also give ourselves the opportunity to succeed. Then we will also clearly have arrangements and arrangements that are both proportionate to the EEA Agreement and to the WTO. There's no doubt about it. However, the fact that a charge cannot be imposed within a year is more than alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5756	I am not saying that it is a problem to introduce a fee in one year's time, but it is difficult to include it in the 2018 budget, with all the assessments to be made. That is why I also wanted a rounder proposal, but which concludes that the fee is to be introduced on 1 July next year, because the majority of people think so, I have no problem with it. However, the inclusion of this fee with different devices in the 2018 budget makes the time span somewhat short, taking into account the challenges I have pointed out with regard to putting such a fee in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5762	It smells more and more the bureaucracy of the Progress Party, I have to say – with long bureaucratic processes. One gets a sense of a kind of inverse 'Yes, Mr. Council' that's asking for it here. If only one assumes that today the Stortinget adopts the principle that one should impose a production charge, and then the government asks to come back where it is right and reasonable to come back with it, and it is in the state budget charging scheme, with an assessment of how the device should be, with certain indications of how it should be put up, the government will have full opportunity to come up with its various assessments of how this can be done most appropriately. So that's what permits and assessments, and so on. which is going on, but I can't understand that it requires such a comprehensive bureaucratic process that one year is simply not enough. Is there a lack of action, or is there simply a problem with the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5771	It's not a year. Then the representative Knag Fylkesnes will have to give the impression that you're trying to train. I am honest and honest with Stortinget, about the challenges that lie in the proposal that has been put forward here, and I believe that some other big business representatives also respect – that I am honest in that way. The fact that the representative Knag Fylkesnes is trying to make fun of it and points to the use of bureaucracy, I think with all due respect that he should not do so. I respect that there is a majority on the Storting to introduce a production fee, and I aim to do so, but then it has to be done in such a way that it stands legally internationally, and with minimum bureaucracy. These are experiences that you take with you when you sit in government. It has nothing to do with bureaucracy. It has to do with things that go beyond time, that don't create problems for us legally in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5778	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5783	The one-sided belief that someone in this room has that taxes and taxes are going to solve all the world's challenges never cease to amaze me. But then at least there are challenges to solve. I have read the vote and the proposal sometimes now, and I still do not understand the challenges to be solved with this fee. This is a purely fiscal charge that you want to impose on an industry because it goes well – right now, well to notice. History has shown that what happens in the future is impossible to say – how long a good period lasts. I don't think there's any disagreement that breeders and the breeding industry are going to pay for themselves, and they are doing it at once. First, you pay a concession fee – I believe that in the last purchases, the price of each concession has covered 60 million. kr, that is also money – you pay VAT, you pay corporate taxes, most pay property taxes, you pay employers' taxes and a whole series of other taxes. It is well known that the Red, SV, MDG and other parties on the extreme left want to tax everything and everyone, but the Centre and the Workers' Party have previously used to weigh this against other reasons, nutritional reasons, among other things. As I said before, no one in this room disagrees that the farming industry is going to pay. Everyone also agrees that the municipalities should be better catered for than today. That is precisely why we set up the Maritime Fund, which has not yet been distributed to these municipalities. The main paradox, however, is that this does not create any incentive for the municipalities to facilitate industry in their own municipality, on the contrary. The representative Heggø said it was so good that this would apply to unprocessed fish, because then it would create so many jobs. It was also here that the representative Knag County misinterpreted the representative Grimstad, as I perceived it. For the truth, it is possible to get into the situation that rapporteurs in a number of municipalities are working out the calculator and expect the following: No, here in our municipality it will pay to ship the fish as quickly as possible through the municipality, out of the country and down to the jobs in Poland, rather than to facilitate industry in their own municipality, because it will give less money in the cash than this fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5794	I think it's a pity that the bulk of the population doesn't wait to see how the model of the new marine fund turns out, before introducing a new fee, especially since we said no to this fee just two years ago. The representative Knag Fylkesnes said the industry is going well today. That's right, but there's no guarantee that it will continue. This is an industry that is very dependent on the salmon price, and it is not that many years since the salmon price was about 20 kroner instead of today's approx. NOK 60. I myself worked in salmon farming for six years before I was selected here, where we sold parts of a generation of fish with losses because the salmon price was too low, and where we were simply unsure whether we were paid next month. So there is no doubt that there are major fluctuations in this market. In my region, I would like it to be organised for more jobs in the aquaculture industry, but I note that the majority here today adopts a system that can give incentives to municipalities to facilitate the processing of fish in Norway. I find it incomprehensible and regrettable that the bulk of the population facilitate passive municipalities that will receive a few ears per kilogram of exported unprocessed fish rather than the processing of fish along the coast of Norway. I record that the representative Pollestad is delighted with the defeat of the Council of State and the government, but when the winner means opening up more jobs in Poland, rather than jobs in Norway and along the coast, then I prefer to be on the side of the losing party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5807	Performing to say that the Council of State is losing when it is a representative proposal that is being discussed is interesting, but I note that the Centre Party is concerned with counting losses – it is interesting in itself. That is quite right, as the representative of Steffensen says. I'd like to take a loss. I stand straight – if it’s about coastal workplaces that may be reduced and new jobs are not built for processing through this type of fee, I’d like to take a loss. I don't have any trouble with that. Moreover, it is about democracy and majority and minority voting. It's not about losing and winning. There is an impression that farming and farming almost do not give anything. One job in the aquaculture industry today has seven others. The development concessions, which are a success, I will claim – 60 companies have applied for different concepts – provide large revenues, employment and development. So the industry is willing to invest tens of billions of dollars to put in place new technology, tomorrow's breeding pain, which in turn will put less pressure on the need for land – offshore peas, among other things, which it will be a little difficult to charge, to put it that way. There will be larger installations, less need for land, etc., etc. If you think about the farm fund, it's 60.4 million. kr there now, and by means of the variable authorised biomass and 5 %. Now we have received the report on what it looks like in the production areas now. The report came three weeks ago. There's only one production area that has a red rash. Then there's someone who has yellow -- yellow in the sense that you can quickly tip over in green, but you can also tip over in red. But 40 pst. has a green rash. We're going to have a new evaluation and test of this in August/September, and we're going to see how many people get 6 pst. growth from the harvest. If you get 6 pst. crop from the harvest of 6 pst. in two years, and 6 pst. two years after that again, it's about billions of dollars into the Marine Fund. In addition, there is a need to have a system on top of this. I understand, as I said in my main post, that you are impatient about the Marine Fund, but it will save money, significant billions, in the future if you succeed. Then you have to invest and allow the industry to develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5818	I just have to honestly admit, as a representative of an indigenous municipality, that I did not realize that you could go after a production fee or an area tax in an industry where the Stortinget had been so red just a year earlier, when I first met in a debate that SV was going to make such a proposal. The marine industry is an industry for which the whole of the Storting has great ambitions. We want a five-six-fold production by 2050. It would be a dream – in my opinion it should be a dream for Coast Norway, the opportunities created here. And here we're going to introduce a tax, which is actually the third excise duty that an industry has. A little to the overall: Norway should actually be converted. We're going to create a lot of new jobs, we're going to talk about finding what's going to happen after the oil, and we need investment. If Norway appears to be a country in which economic activities are being hounded – as soon as it comes to profitable industries, we will be charging, and we will find new ways of taxing those industries – I find that creating new jobs is going to be a heavy backbone. We've become quite so spoiled that the oil can cover most of it. That time is up. Jobs need to be created that are both profitable and are capable of attracting investment. We look at it in the field after field. Norway has tried its way into data centres. They are largely established outside Norway. I just have to say that if the Storting is going to continue to impose new taxes on profitable industries every time profitability shows up, I think we have considerable challenges to attract the investments we need. In addition, there are the concerns that the Council of State has about our trading obligations. This is a charge that is not aimed at addressing the challenges facing the industry at all. Had it even been a fee that premiered those who solved the loop problem and that kind of thing, it would have been something else. It is, as the representative Sivert Bjørnstad said, a purely fiscal charge, and the signal effect on almost all other businesses is terribly poor with the decision we are about to make today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5825	I have heard in the course of the debate that it is an argument that industry, after all, uses our common national resources. No one disagrees with that, the sea is everyone's own. There is no disagreement in this room about it, but it is not the case that a fee should be imposed for that reason alone. If it had been a principle for the majority to adopt it today, it would have been done to all others who use national resources, including, for example, proposed. a fee for the export of timber, a levy for each kilogram of aluminium produced — and what about the traditional fisheries, which are very much using our common seas? Why in all days should they not pay such a purely fiscal charge as is now proposed for farmers and aquaculture? The main challenge of this charge is that it does not solve any of the challenges facing the industry — not lice, not escape, and none of the other challenges. It is a purely fiscal charge, which is an urgent solution that does not serve anything or anyone. Then the representative was Knag Fylkesnes in his first post on a number of other reasons, among others. that the industry has large profits and that you can afford to pay such a fee. Then I want to follow up on the posts of the representative, Gundersen: if this room is to start taxing according to the amount of profit each industry has, we will in the years ahead get our full rent to sit and be the police in terms of who makes money and not. Another argument was that there was little local ownership. I don't understand where the representative's taking it from. If you travel along the meridians along the coast, there are many – many local owners with a lot of patriotic capital – who have invested their money in creating jobs around the country. The last argument was that these companies have huge dividends, and that none of the dividends end up on the coast. Finnmark was an example, because there was no local ownership anymore. I think one of the big breeders in Finnmark is Norway Royal Salmon. In that case, the representative Knag Fylkesnes must have a better overview of the share book of the company over whom dividends are received and not. If I'm going to give a rough estimate, I'll tip it off that it's at least over ten Finnmarks that are owners of listed salmon companies that also operate in Finnmark, and the dividends are also going to Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5836	It was a fantastic conclusion to the previous article. The representative, Bjørnstad, simply couldn't believe what was said. I can only refer to the report that has just been written by Nofima, on behalf of the Nord-Norway Economic Survey, where they have gone through ownership in the farming industry. There will find the numbers. But it may be false facts that the Progress Party calls what they're not in. A six-fold, said Gundersen: there's no big deal about it being a six-fold. I keep hearing representatives from the Progress Party and the Right say that the Stortinge mean one should go in for a six-fold. The Storting has never said that. What the Biggest says is: growth if one manages to solve the environmental challenges. And that's what's in the traffic light system that the state council was doing instead. If one can solve the big environmental challenges, we can start talking about growth. It's just as if one jumps over that term -- the slightly significant term about what is the rule of growth, which must be the starting point here. It is quite right that the SV's primary proposal is that it should be taxation of the entire production, completely independent of whether it is manufactured, exported, etc. It's by model from other countries. It's easier to handle. There aren't so many problems. I also understand that the Minister for Fisheries felt that it was easier to implement. That also means SV. However, the reason why SV is in favour of the proposal as it currently stands is that one adopts a principle of a land-interest tax on the use of resources in the Community. Just starting with that principle right now is extremely important and an important signal. Interestingly, representatives from the Advance Party and the Right completely disregard the fact that there is no longer any criticism of the taxation of petroleum. It's new a good of as a society, and there's no criticism of it. It's also taxes. There is none in this room – as far as I know – that has suggested over the past 30 years that the taxation of petroleum should go away, but one will do so here, in an identical situation. Or water power, for that matter: it's the same debt there -- there's a tax for which no one here in the hall nectars. There is also a tax on community ownership, the exploitation of natural resources. On the other hand, we only know from last year that the request for fees in the Advance Party and the Right is no less than in the other party – perhaps even larger, but rather delicate. Last year we had a big discussion about the ship instructions that were introduced. First, the fisherman had to pay for an authorised consultant to check the boat, so one would pay the Maritime Directorate to check the boat. It was the inspection, the fee. So they shouldn't come here and say that it's just they who think this is a little bit special.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5849	There was a strange debate here at the end. Governments spent most of their time telling us how much is compared to what is agreed today – but no, there is no defeat. No production or land tax is introduced today, even if it is stated in the comments from the government lot. It is also not an introduction of a new fee. There is an increase in an existing fee, which has fallen from 0.85 pst. to 0.3 pst. under this Government. The representative of Knag Fylkesnes is quite right in pointing out that the representative of Grimstad is misinterpreting. One could also have taken the view that the considerations of the representative Bjørnstad were a misinterpretation. The organisation of new land will become a shortcoming in the future. The Marine Fund does not receive income as we believed. So we're asking for one to resume another increase, which is not based on growth. It's also strange that none of the government's parties will comment on the mistrust that's in the note, a distrust of an entire industry. I repeat: in an annotation form, it is said that the security valve that is introduced if a non-profit is inserted, means that the whole industry will use its time and energy to adapt. It says a little bit about the view of the government party on the aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5862	There is no distrust of the industry, as Ingrid Hegø tries to represent it as – that they will try to cheat away. That's not the point, the point is exactly what the state council pointed out, that there are different companies. Some are engaged in production and some export. The fee here is supposed to be at the export level, on unprocessed fish on export, while one actually wants to frame the farmers who run another company, which is producing in one municipality, in the sea. It is incomprehensible that the representative Heggø is able to mix the cards this way. She also manages to mix the cards very well when it applies to these fees that we pay – 0.85 pst. which was reduced to 0,3 pst. This fee has to do with Norwegian exports and with the Export Council for Fish and is a completely different fee, to go to the Farm Fund and to the municipalities. Even if one is to load the fish being exported in the same way, there is nothing to do with the Tromsø organisation that operates in marketing fish. This is a combination that is really unworthy for the cause. I'm very surprised that the Labour Party is involved in a proposal that they really don't see in the sequence, when I hear the debate here today. If we follow in the debate, we're not against taking advantage of the municipalities. It's not the government's party either, so we took part in the introduction of the aquaculture fund, which benefits the municipalities in a very good way. It's been done for the past here today that when we get the traffic light system going, there's a huge amount of money coming into this fund to the fallout. We should take time to wait and see that this got a chance to work before we introduced new taxes on this industry. What we are proposing is a holistic review of the overall tax system for the industry, including the export charge to Tromsø for marketing fish, but also the concession fee. It is possible to align this in a more efficient way, which helps to create more efficient nutrients and more growth. Yeah, so maybe we're getting a five-six-double, that SINTEF in Trondheim has pointed out, if in the future we're able to meet demands for more environmentally friendly production.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5874	You almost don't think that's what you're talking about. Here, then, an export tax, which goes to market abroad to increase the sales of Norwegian salmon, is treated in a fiscal way, which goes straight to the Treasury, and which does not premium or at all profile Norwegian fish abroad, and equates them. These are two very different things. It's about raising the industry. The industry is involved and pays to market, while the fee that is probably, unfortunately, adopted today is a fiscal fee that goes straight into the treasury and does not make any contribution to the industry at all. That one could draw parallels between these two, I didn't think it was possible. Once again we see that SV chose to interpret posts and put words in my mouth as I did not say. I say, and I'm going to repeat it, that now gives an incentive to the municipalities, as the Greens say – that now we have to get more in place along the coast, but one has to be careful not to process the fish, because then there will be no income for the municipalities. So in addition to production, get the fish out of the country, preferably unprocessed, so that it can be processed in Poland, in Denmark or in other countries within the EU. Here, then, is a punishment for Norwegian further processing. Seventh and last: I didn't think it was possible to draw parallels between a marketing fee and a fiscal charge, as the Labour Party does from this speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5883	Now I need the help of Storting. If it is right that the representative Heggø says that this is not a new fee, but that it is the export tax, i.e. the market tax, which is to be increased, I think those who are behind the proposal have to consult. If that's what's behind it, that's why an increase in the market fee is the purpose, it's something completely different. We are already in discussions with ESA regarding this market charge – whether it is legal. If you're going to raise it in a fiscal way, I don't have the authority to do it. So there the proposers have to help clear, so that we know what the purpose is. If the export charge, the market charge, is to be increased, you would have to say it clearly, because I can do that in 14 days. But then I think we have another challenge, because that's something completely different. I have to say that the representative Knag Fylkesnes has some good principles at least – I have to say, because the debate on the principle of rent is quite real. And it comes at some point, anyway. The point from the others here is that there are a number of other charges that this charge, i.e. the rent tax, is to be applied. Then the representative Heggø from the Workers' Party says that there is a strange debate at the end. Yes, it is no wonder that the debate becomes strange when the purpose of the tax and the levy changes during the debate. As far as this road map is concerned, I have to say: No, the Stortinget has not adopted a five-fold increase until 2050 – otherwise the representative Gundersen did not. But you have ambitions about it, and there are strong, heavy research environments behind those ambitions. It was updated now 14 days ago, when SINTEF provided an updated road map in that respect. Then you actually say that a five-fold increase in export value by 2050 might have been a bit modest. But it's not just salmon. It's about the whole seafood industry. It's all about what we're going to pick up from the sea, which is future opportunities, potentials and revenues for this. So the doubling of the ambitions we have towards 2050 is something the Stortinget has got, where the expertise, the research environment, thinks it's possible – if you do it right, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5894	The representative Sivert Bjørnstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5899	The representative of Ingrid Heggø is quite right – it's a strange debate, because now we don't even know what we're discussing. Is it a new charge, or is it export and market charges? The comments state: ‘The majority consider that a levy per kilogram of exported unprocessed fish should be imposed. This levy shall be allocated to the Maritime Fund in order to be distributed to the municipalities according to the share of MTB/locality capacity of each municipality.’;» In addition, it says: ‘The majority ask the government to start work on the investigation of a fee after this model and report back to government budgets for 2018.’ Why in all days is it to be investigated if it's a charge we already have, and we know what is? Finally, to Hegø, who is trying to make a strawman that it is we who have distrusted the industry: then I ask Hegø to go into various websites, read newspapers and see if the criticism from the industry, from the industry, has come to our remark, or if it has come to the introduction of a completely new fee from the majority of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5916	From me, who is also the case rapporteur in this matter: It is the case that the majority today ask for it is that a work be started by the government in order to charge a levy per kilo of exported unprocessed fish, and that they return to the Stortinget with it in connection with the state budget for 2018, with the aim of introducing it in a year's time, no later than 1 July 2018. This is a new fee that the majority wishes to introduce, as has been said. And as the setting clearly states, there is a new fee that we are asking for to be investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5923	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5940	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5949	It has been a work pleasure to hire work on this matter in the Committee. This is a matter that is largely about a technical relationship, but is also the beginning of a new regulation of a field that on the Storting there is a great deal about having been subdued for too long. The technical part is that one shifts parts of the fishing ban law — what is now left of it — to the marine resource law, which regulates tourist fishing. It makes it clean. There is a segment in a slightly larger moving project that has passed through several stages. In 2013 was the last time, and now we're doing a new move. At the same time, there is an opportunity to make important adjustments to the way tourism is regulated. The starting point is a 2011 report, where one looked at the whole regulation of tourist fishing today. That's the long journey there that we end today in many ways, but as I, which I'm going to come back to, I think is a start. First of all, the new law, which we are about to have first-time treatment for, is to provide certain information to the authorities, i.e. a regulation that gives the authorities the opportunity to do so. In addition, the authorities are given the opportunity to establish a registration system for these companies. Today, there are no separate reporting or registration obligations for these companies, and we have simply no overview of the extent of the extraction of tourist fishing. There's a lot of different numbers going on. Probably it's significant. We know that this industry has become large and significant, so in a purely sustainable management perspective, it is important to get an overview of the total outflow in this industry. And especially local populations: we know that tourists do not go far. They're close to the coast, and that's often where we find some of the most challenging species along the Norwegian coast. Getting a proper code and an overview of what this means is extremely important. There's also another important dimension in this, and it's putting in place a system of seriousness. In my part of the country there are daily reports of unprofessional tourists fishing, who drive cowboy business along the coast and fish around the clock to find the one big fish, and throwing the fish that is not big enough to bring them home as trophies. These are foreigners who come to Norway and treat the sea and fish in a way that we don't want anything of. This is the start of regulation in this area. At the same time, it must be said that tourist fishing is an excellent industry. She builds on the proud traditions we have along the coast with coastal culture and good use of the sea. Doing it in the right way can be an amazingly fine and growing nourishment, but it has to happen within good and solid frameworks where we have an overview of the population. This was a kind of treatment after the proposal that SV lifted last fall, where we arranged for a series of other regulations as well as information obligations and registration. We also decided to wind up the strange scheme that we only find in sea fishing, where you can take a certain quantity of fish out of the country. No other area has it like that, no other country has it like that – it's especially for Norway. We now see that everything so far this year is more illegal export of fish from Norway than it was in the last year, for example. twice as much on border crossings in Northern Ireland. This must only look like a start. There's a minority of people who think fish are not supposed to be executed in the file today, but in round fish. There is also a minority – the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV are behind both proposals – which believe that the export requirement will apply per year. Now I have to add that the primary position of SV is in a setting from the fall, and that is that we are going to wind up this strange scheme. This is our secondary position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5972	Tourist fishing is relatively weakly regulated today. It's a paradox, in fact, that professional fishing, which happens in the same sea and taxes the same fish is much more regulated. So it was high time that the matter of regulating tourist fishing came — overtime, yes, but she came. However, I do not understand why the Council of State is no longer clear about what it wants, except to provide registration schemes that are all agreed on. Tourist fishing along the coast has increased significantly in the last year. An increasing number of travel businesses are targeting this market. It is both important and right to invest in a growing market. For experience tourism, a benefit will be our foremost advantage: the fjords and the beautiful long-haul coast. The last time we discussed this, the committee gathered on several points, and one of them was just the registration system. We've been busy getting control of how much fish are actually drawn up by foreign tourists. This is entirely in line with the Workers' Party's fisheries policy platform, we fully support it. What surprises me is that a joint committee said that there should be conversion rules, so that the number of kilograms that tourists can take out of the country is now to be calculated in round fish. Today's practice of loins and fillets is literally yesterday's solution, where the majority of the fish are thrown. This is not in line with the big crowd's desire and will when it comes to exploiting the whole fish and all the raw material. I hope and believe that there has only been a mistake here, and that at least the Christian People's Party and the Left stand at what they said last, and support the proposal that is in here today. When it comes to trophies, we agreed on this principle last as well. The difference at the time was that someone would wait for the travel news, which would then hold tourist fishing as well. Others, including: Worker's party, wanted to know right away. No one disagreed at that time with the principle that trophy fishing should be included. We are closing this chapter today by gathering to say something about it. It is in the same street as discards of fish — the use of whole fish. That's a good job of the case spokesperson and a joint committee. Last time there was also a joint committee that pointed out that there is the experience of fishing that is the main essence of tourist fishing, not food. I also argued that we all still mean, and then it becomes completely unnatural to support an increase in excess of today's 15 kilos. It is actually a year’s consumption of a starting point in the dietary councils when it comes to fish, and foreign tourists are not able to sell their catch. The working party and SV are also clear this time that the export requirement of kilos will apply per year, not per export, and here too I am actually asking for support from others. So I'm going to deal with the minority proposals, on which the Labour Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5989	The representative Ingrid Heggø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e5994	Once again, we see that the government is delivering. Today we have a case for treatment that is requested and requested by both municipalities and serious travel life actors across large parts of Coast Norway. Norway should be an attractive destination for travel life, and we need to ensure framework conditions that allow serious actors to develop and grow. We know that over time it has grown up a market in tourist fishing that gives little or nothing back to the communities, which leads to an unbridled withdrawal of fish – and which is perceived as distorting to the established actors. It's about to end. Now we're going to make sure that the administration gets a better overview of the total outflow of the wild marine resources. In this way it will be possible to regulate the tourist fishing industry, in line with all other activities that harvest resources in the sea for nutritional purposes. This proposal will require establishments that own or operate fishing facilities or activities to provide information on all marine fishing activities that they provide. However, the Committee has also made it clear that it is important that it is implemented in a practical and less burdensome way for the actors. This bill has been well received by both industry and stakeholders. By making this amendment to the Act today, the Ministry will have the necessary means to define regulatory changes that ensure the intention of the Decision. Tourism fishing will also be an important part of our tourism industries in the future. Now it will happen in controlled forms and in a sustainable and serious way. I have to make a small comment on the proposal to change the export limit from filleted to round fish, initially an amissable proposal, but after the opinion of the Right, there will be a change that will require new consultations and will further delay the changes to the regulation. On the other hand, we believe that the new regulations that can now be introduced will ensure that tourist fishing companies provide tourists with the necessary training in both how to handle the fish – and also what legislation to follow. We believe that this will ensure that the intention of regulation and control in tourist fishing will be well respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6005	The tourist fishing industry is currently poorly regulated, and the administration lacks reliable knowledge of the gathering of the sea catch. In this context, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs set up a working group in the autumn of 2010 to assess possible management measures in relation to the fast growing coastal tourist fishing industry in Norway. The report has been on a general hearing, and the recordings were mainly positive to the most central proposals in the report, such as the registration of tourist fishing activities, the reporting of catches, proposals for changes in the marine resource laws § 22 and new regulation on tourist fishing activities, etc. The aim is to obtain a better overview of the collection of wild marine resources, and a Joint Committee supports this. Fishing prohibition law regulates the right of aliens to operate fishing and other fisheries-related activities in Norwegian territorial waters. The proposal to repeal the Fishing Prohibition Act is to relocate the vessels under the Sea Resource Act. The main objective is to simplify legislation by repealing a law that is not necessary and to pool information on maritime fishing in a common law, which is sensible and which will simplify. The majority of the committee, all except the member of the Socialist Left Party, records that the government proposal will impose a new administrative burden on traders in the form of registration and reporting. In the hearing, it was suggested that the scheme should be implemented in a practical and small way for the actors, and that all parties in the Committee may be involved. Then the discussion has gone on about the volume of each individual to be able to fish, and a minority has suggested that this should be counted in round fish, while there is broad agreement to ‘include trophies in the limit of how much fish can be taken out of the country’. But above all, with this regulation, we will get an overview of the resource outsourcing and the total outsourcing, and when you get a necessary overview of this, you will be able to come back and make the necessary changes in volume and whether this is annual outsourcing. Finally, I have to admit that I don't understand a line of argument for the Workers' Party when they keep their posts, where they try to create the impression that there is a great deal of disunity in this case too, about this regulation. The actual ratio is that there's a whole consensus. There's a little bit of disunity about what I was talking about: shall one say that this is an annual withdrawal? Should it be counted in round fish? Should it be counted in the filleted fish? These are the smaller things – which I was in on – compared to the fact that you get an overview of the total resource take-off, the same way that professional fishermen have to record every kilogram they take out. When you get the total overview here, you can also get a better management, and then you can come back and see what's necessary: should there be round fish? Is there supposed to be filleted fish? How do we choose to have it in the future? However, the change and the administrative regime that we are introducing now are called for – and are good measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6022	I have said it on several occasions in this Chamber, and I say it again: Norway is a beautiful country with great resources that we should manage well. Today, in particular, our fishing resources are at our disposal. With a long-distance coast that is both beautiful and rich in fish, we are also a popular destination and a popular destination for fishy people. Earlier this spring we dealt with the travel news, where a total increase showed that we want to bet on our travel life, and that we are going to facilitate increased value creation in this industry. This also applies to the tourist fishing industry. That being said, we also need to have two thoughts in our head at the same time – because we want growth in this industry, but we also need to ensure that we have an overview of the fishing resources that are absorbed by the industry, so that we can control the taxation of resources. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal to introduce a requirement for the registration of tourist fishing establishments and for the reporting of catches. This shall be done in a way that does not give the industry much more work or increase costs. One of the challenges for tourist fishing is that after the fillets are cut and packed, there will be a lot of fish left. This leads to a lot of fish being thrown. The Christian People's Party wants us to use the whole fish, and therefore we support the proposal to ask the government to draw up conversion rules so that the number of kilograms is counted in round fish. In the event of an incursion, this is not indicated by the vote, but I now announce that the Christian People's Party supports this proposal, as we did in the discussion of the SV's proposal for a representative in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6033	I would like to refer to an overall committee which points out that tourist fishing is relatively poorly regulated today. It is a paradox that professional fishing in the same sea, in the same fjords, and taxing the same fish, is much stronger regulated. That is why I think it is positive that the government is now making proposals to strengthen the regulation of tourist fishing. I would also like to point out the need to get a better overview of what is taxed by fish and other marine resources. In a note we are alone about, we point out that a better overview of what is taxed in connection with tourist fishing is required. I believe it is important that the system be designed in an efficient and rational way with the minimum administrative burden for those it will include, as we point out in the remark that we unfortunately stand alone on. I will end by stating that the Left also goes into proposal No. 1:@item: inlistbox Adjective, language ‘The government asks the government to draw up conversion rules so that the number of kilograms is calculated in round fish.’ We're assuming that in a note in the text we point to this to prevent what we see today, that a lot of the fish are thrown. It is a logical consequence for us to be part of that proposal by – so far – the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6047	This bill is about two different proposals. One proposal is to introduce legal barriers that are absolutely necessary to introduce the regulation of the tourist fishing industry that most people want. The second proposal is to simplify fisheries legislation, and simplification is simply to repeal an old law, the Fishing Prohibition Act, and to transfer the remaining provisions of the law to the Marine Resource Act. The proposal involves updating and modernising the legal provisions that are being moved to new legislation. The proposal also means that legislation is made more accessible by bringing it together in one place in the law. Let me also say that I am pleased that the government has received full support for both proposals from a unanimous nutrition committee. That's good, because both proposals are important. I consider the proposal to introduce a legal framework to regulate the tourist fishing industry to be a milestone. The tourist fishing industry has gradually developed into an important industry in Norway. It contributes to both activity and jobs along the coast, and this is largely positive. At the same time, there is a paradox, which several have pointed out that this important industry is so poorly regulated — tourist fishing takes place in the same sea and taxes the same resources as traditional professional fishing. That is why this regulation is coming. This is also the tourist fishing industry itself aware of, and it has been consistently positive that we are getting such a system in place. I have also consulted on a proposal for a new regulation on the tourism industry with detailed provisions on registration, reporting, etc. Variable export quota is also included in this consultation proposal. I intend to complete the work with a new regulation after the Stortinget now adopts the necessary statutory provisions. The regulation is largely concerned with relatively technical provisions, and therefore I am somewhat surprised that the red-green committee members believe it is unfortunate that the government has not concluded in a number of areas. We'll do that as soon as we get the necessary laws adopted by the Storting. I also record that different minorities have some views on how to calculate the export quota, including conversion rules. This goes on relatively technical computational issues that I am sure we will get solved in a good way when we set the regulation. I note that representatives from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV will also promote some dissatisfaction here, suggesting that the government has spent a long time on this proposal. These representatives also believe that it is unfortunate that we go into another summer season without the legislation in place. I have to say I'm a little surprised to hear it from the red-green representatives. The government's proposals are known to be based on recommendations from a group of parties. The working group consisted of representatives of the tourist fishing industry and the fishing industry in addition to management and research. All the recommendations were agreed. This working group therefore made its recommendations to the red-green government in June 2011. So everything was right to follow up the agreed recommendations already in 2011, but the red-green government did absolutely nothing. Had the red-greens at the time followed up the recommendations that they agreed to, we had not only had a code in place this summer season, but also the previous three summer seasons. But now leave it. In any case, I am pleased that we are now putting in place the necessary rules from the next season, and that there is a broad consensus on the Government's proposal. I also record that an overall nutrition committee proposes that the Stortinget ask the government to include trophies in the export quota. I take note of that and will follow up when I set new regulations as soon as possible with the new legislation. An alternative that is simply to take out trophies and possibly also to impose some limits on the size of the fish and rather to release it. We have a problem with kelvits in that way. A simple grip is to take out the term trophy fish, and it's included in the export quotas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6062	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6068	Today's practice of loins and fillets is literally yesterday's solution, where the majority of the fish are thrown. I'm very pleased that it now appears to be a multiple, and a joint committee was also the last time behind a note on the conversion from the file to round fish. Now, however, the government party has withdrawn, as I understand it. So my question is, is the Council of State itself for or against a conversion into round fish?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6079	I just said from the pulpit that I am recording that this is a wish, and therefore it would be quite natural for me to look at conversion methods. But we know that conversion factors in traditional fishing are a bureaucratic matter, and that's very technical. If we're going to start imposing on every tourist industry and every single small enterprise out there to do with conversion factors, at least there's no simplification in that way. I'm saying, of course, we're going to look at different ways of finding a calculation, if that's what you want. With regard to exports, as I mentioned in connection with trophies: if you take it away, it will also be part of the export quota, and that is something that needs to be assessed when the houses are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6086	Governments indicated that the red-greens showed a lack of action, for they received the report in 2011 and set to 2013. Then it's close to asking: Regeringa Solberg has a seat for four years – is the Council satisfied that the regulation of tourist fishing does not come into place this season either, when it's been four years? What, then, does it say about the power of action of this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6091	I wanted the red-greens to do this when they got the report on the table in June 2011. There was a lot of agreement, there was no disagreement at all, so for the red-greens it was actually just pressing the button in 2011, and then this would have been in place. Then there had been no discussion. I'm made so that I think everything is going too slow, but there are some technical challenges to putting in place both legislative changes and registrations, and we want to make it as easy as possible for tourism companies out there. There is also a need to spend some time on this, which is why there has been a consultation process on this. I am constantly looking for ways to simplify, and for a Progress Party representative it is not easy to introduce new registrations, new rules and new laws. I think the representative Hegge knows that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6096	I find that the red-greens used a little over one year and did not press the button, there is a lack of action, while the explanation that this government has been sitting for four years without pressing the button shows the action force. A joint committee has also said that fishing is the main focus of tourist fishing – not food. 15 kilos — that’s actually one year’s consumption, based on fish diets. Did the Council of State get to leave the 15-kilogram limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6105	Had the red-greens just shown some action in 2011, we wouldn't have had to spend resources on it at all. That was my point of this. And as I said, in June 2011 this was clearly, it was served to the red-green ones, but they didn't do anything about it. Now we have at least got it in place, and then I think maybe the representative Heggø would also show a little joy when we now get this that has been wanted over so long. No, I haven't locked myself up for anything, but in the hearing it was 30 kilos. Some people are a little worried about it and think it's a little bit. You can imagine that the limit of kilograms can be set, for example. 10 kilograms, 5 kilograms less than today, for those who don't register. And then maybe you can set the limit to 20 kilograms – i.e. 5 kilograms more than today – for those who join the registration system. That's one way to think about it. But if it's a signal from Stortinget that you're going down to an even lower number of kilograms, I'm of course receiving those messages, if they were to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6114	What does the government do with the ever-increasing fish smuggling?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6119	I heard that the representative of Fylkesnes also brought this up in his post and pointed to the concerns. It's not necessarily that there's increased smuggling. You don't know that, you can't guarantee it. But the fact that it's taken more is quite right. Resources are now being deployed in broad and substantial cooperation between the different departments — customs, tax, etc. – to detect and take those who smuggle seafood from Norway. But we need to focus significantly on that in the future as well. We can't borrow back even if we have new rules in place. I have received exactly the same message of concern as the representative of Knag County pointed out. There are cowboy activities out there – not so little either, I understand – and that is why there is a question of whether we need to carry out control and supervision along the coast of this, which is extensive, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6124	It's an increasing amount. We get more and more reports on foreigners coming to the country and getting along illegally. The control system around this is very deficient. The information is also too bad. Many tourists don't know how much they can get out of the country. When one is told that the Tollvessen so far this year, even March, the double number of seizures compared to the previous year – i.e. twice as many seizures in three months as in the whole of last year – I think there should be an alarm, because under this it can simply be extensive fishing smuggling. Can the Council explain what concrete measures have been taken, and what is happening now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6131	I pointed it out a little bit. And that's right: there are huge seizures that we're now registering. We're going to be a little satisfied with that, too, I think, because that means that the agencies responsible do their job. That we're discovering this kind of smuggling to a greater extent than ever before means that we've put considerable resources into it. It could also be an increase. I have also received reports of this from various places when traveling along the coast. Examples are the conversion of garages to fillets, etc. I've received reports of that. That's why I think we need to strengthen coastal control, where this activity is going on, but we also need to strengthen border control, and so take out much more of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6139	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6157	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a sequence change be made by up to three lines with replies after the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6166	I would first like to say that it is a big and important matter we are dealing with here today. We have had important issues earlier today, too, but this is a matter of great importance to many fields. It is also a committee that is relatively divided into most of the cases. The Committee is composed of I and III, while II is promoted by a Joint Committee with the exception of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Committee therefore supports the government's proposal to increase the requirement for living for cash support to five years. The Committee also supports the Government’s proposal to abolish the requirement to live in the form of facilities. But where the consensus also stops, and I want to get more into the minority's attitude, the Progress Party and the Right Minority Adjustment. I am also addressing the proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The backbone of this case is that Norway experienced an extreme flow of refugees in 2015. There was much more to Norway than we had the capacity to accept. Luckily, we have a government that showed action and got a lot of emphasis on immigration and integration policy in Norway, which meant that we had limited flow to Norway, markedly and significantly. It has also helped us to have cross-political settlements here at Stortinget, and especially the asylum settlement of 19 November 2015. Several important constraints were agreed, including: It was said in proposal No. 17 that the government should review the special arrangements for refugees and asylum-seekers in the public interest and ensure that there are operational and earning requirements where this is natural. The government follows up what the Storting asked for, and it has been sent to the hearing. I am not surprised that the Socialist Left continues a naive immigration policy and goes against the constraints we are proposing today, but that the Workers' Party and the Centre are moving against, abandoning the asylum agreement, showing that they want strict and fair rules only when they have the media's searchlight on them, and otherwise have a frightening naïve and, to some extent, clever immigration and integration policy. There has also been a lot of talk in recent years about inequality and poverty in Norway, but here the Labour Party and the Centre choose to align themselves with different schemes, where refugees must have better rights than the Nordics. I think it's very special, because for the Progress Party, it's about having one set of rules in Norway, regardless of whether you're a refugee or not. We also know that one of the things that really creates poverty is that people are out of work. There is also one of the reasons the government has for promoting this proposal. We want a system that will make it attractive to work, which will allow more people to get into work and be able to support themselves, and thus to be better integrated. But it unfortunately chooses the majority here, with the Labour Party and the Center Party at the head, to go against. The challenge is also the signal effect that this gives, because Norway has a fantastic welfare system, of which we are all to be proud, but if that welfare system survives in the future, we are dependent on avoiding abuse. It goes without saying that the Norwegian welfare system cannot finance anyone who wants to come here. We must therefore make sure to make demands on those who are coming. In fact, you have to provide when you live in Norway, and in particular you should not be able to get better arrangements than the Nordics. There are several special advantages to refugees today. A Norwegian must have a 40-year vesting period in order to receive a full basic pension. If a Norwegian has lived a few years abroad and comes home, and is exposed to an accident, he does not automatically have the right to do so, for example. disability, which a refugee will be entitled to from day one. The Progress Party believes that there is serious discrimination, and it is sad that the Workers' Party and the Centre and the majority here today are voting against these proposals. But we're not going to give up the fight, because I'm pretty sure that the large part of the Norwegian population agrees with the Progress Party and the government that in Norway we're going to have one set of rules that will be equal to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6185	The representative of Erlend Wiborg has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6192	The representative Wiborg keeps coming back to the claim that refugees have better rights than the North. I wonder how many refugees get how much more in social security or pension than how many others who don't have refugee status?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6197	Some exact numbers I can't give here and now, but it's no secret that refugees have special arrangements. I was into it in my main post. One goes on the right of retirement to a basic pension, where other Nordics have a 40-year vesting period, while refugees get it from day one. I think it is a little strange: the Labour Party has tried so far to avoid the public debate on this important issue. I wonder why the Workers' Party believes that refugees should have special arrangements? I would assume that the Labour Party agrees that there are special arrangements, because that is what they admit in the remark, and they also admitted it in the asylum agreement. Then they asked the government to take hold of it, but they have now chosen to go away and have turned again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6204	The representative of Wiborg will probably have the opportunity to reply to the undersigned afterwards. Now I'm the replicator. I just want to refer to the Brochmann committee, which says that payments per capita from social security are higher in the population than among immigrants, but let go. The representative Wiborg was also concerned with the importance of getting refugees into work. Thus, Wiborg will get more refugees into work by ensuring that none of those granted permanent residence in Norway by the Progress Party Councils are able to work before five years. Why is it a good tool to get people to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6211	We have been aware that all types of benefits should not be provided automatically from day one in Norway. It's important, because it's important for people to have the demand that they be out of work – that it's the basic rule. Then we also have a safety net for those who fall outside, for those who can't work, and we're still going to have that safety net. But it goes without saying that if you receive passive benefits, it does something with the desire for some to get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6216	The representative, Wiborg, says that the Central Party is responsible for a naive immigration policy. There must be either an obvious misunderstanding or a deliberate disinformation, for this matter does not concern immigrants, it concerns refugees. The central party's position in the case of refugees is that we have to have border control. This means that we have control of how many refugees can come to Norway. We are based on the UN's quota refugee system and the EU's refugee relocation programme. So we have control of how many refugees we want to come to Norway. My question is: why does the Progress Party not want border controls for refugees to enter Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6221	The Progress Party is in favour of good border control, and it is also known that the government has introduced several measures for, inter alia, the implementation of border controls. strengthening border controls. Schengen is also under way. And we see the result. You'll often judge a politician from what he says, but I'm more concerned with judging politicians from what they're actually doing. When the party to the representative Lundteigen was in government, Norway had a naive immigration policy. We had a significant influx to Norway. So luckily, the Progress Party and the Right in government came, and we've got significant contractions, far more contractions than the Center Party has ever wanted. Even the Center Party chose to vote down several of the restraints, but fortunately we got a pass too much. We have the concrete figures – we have reduced the influx to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6228	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6234	In 2015, Europe, not just Norway, experienced an exceptional situation with a high number of asylum seekers that neither we nor other countries were prepared to deal with. To get the situation under control, we made a refugee settlement with the Right, the Advance Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party on 19 November of the same year. We in the Workers' Party stretched far to find a common solution, over old disagreements. The same was true of most other conciliators. The agreement meant that the government would conduct different types of investigations and return to Stortinget with matters in defined areas. One of the assignments we're dealing with today. One main question was whether the level of social benefits in Norway was such that a disproportionate proportion of the refugees sought residence here in the country. In addition, there was a need to look at living requirements for non-supporting benefits for work and activity, and there was a need to look at activity and generation requirements where it was natural. A review of the social security rights of asylum seekers and refugees was notified in Prop. 1 S Appendix 1 for 2015-2016. The working party took note of this. When the matter is now on the table, it turns out that there is a matter of general cuts in the social benefits for refugees, but the government has not responded to the task that Stortinget gave. The main question was whether it was possible to demonstrate a link between the level of social benefits in Norway and a disproportionate proportion of asylum seekers in Norway, compared with other countries. The Ministry emphasises that Norwegian welfare schemes should not be designed to lead to ‘distortions in migration flows, by providing asylum seekers with incentives to choose Norway as a destination country’. The schemes must further ‘stimulate those who are allowed to stay in Norway to be economically active’. But the government has either jumped over this premise, or tried and failed to demonstrate such a connection. Nevertheless, there is a case of cutting across the whole line, mainly as a mixture of increased living requirements, combined with the lifting of refugees’ exemptions from the requirement to live. As the rapporteur has explained, the proposal also contains some other proposals. In the case of auxiliaries, it is proposed that current living requirements be deleted. The Labour Party supports it. It is important that refugees — and others involved — are not prevented from participating in work, education and activities. There are also some benefits where there is no requirement for prior living, and where it is not proposed to introduce it, so I will not spend time commenting on them. But then we have the cash support. It is proposed to introduce a five-year residence requirement. We support that, since, in our opinion, the cash support is an obstacle, both in terms of women's professional activity and in terms of sending children to kindergarten, and in that way it seems negative in terms of integration. However, we do not support increasing the requirement to live from three to five years for social benefits to single dependants, nor does it support an increase to five years for old age pensions or disability benefits. The old age pension applies to those who are not working age. Disadvantages apply to those who are unable to work due to illness, injury or negligence. Increased living requirements are also proposed for redundancy benefits. We do not support that. Work clearance is just about activity, hopefully with work as a goal. Having to wait several years for this will only inhibit, not promote, integration. In addition, the government proposes to refer elderly and disabled refugees to supplementary benefits for short-stay residents. We do not support that. The majority of adults have already cut twice in this amount of benefit during this period. This proposal will only help to produce poverty, and we do not have to. Nor do we support the proposal to repeal Section 3 of the Asylum Seeker’s Code on Earnings in the Asylum Seeker’s Period if permanent residence is granted. This applies to transitional benefits, disability benefits and pensions and to the calculation of disability benefits and pensions. It is not fair that one group of the population should not be left for what they have earned. Finally, almost none of the 44 hearing bodies support the government's proposal to cut the social benefits of refugees. On the contrary, several heavy authorities believe that the proposals will only contribute to increasing differences between people. Instead, measures on language, increased labour skills and anti-discrimination are requested. It is a more dangerous road, even in the opinion of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6253	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6258	I was in my main post that the Workers' Party signed an agreement on an asylum settlement, and there they asked the government to go through these special arrangements and make sure that there were activity and earnings requirements. What is the reason why the Workers' Party is now in breach of the agreement and is not following up on what they themselves signed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6263	The representative Wiborg could really spare himself that line, because that's what I used my post to talk about. I take away from the fact that the Workers' Party is breaking the refugee agreement. The points referred to in this case, in the refugee agreement, were that one should ensure that the level of benefits to asylum seekers does not make Norway appear economically attractive. First of all, do you have to answer the question: are there benefits that make Norway look economically attractive? They have not responded to that in the proposition, and there is no evidence to suggest that it is the Norwegian social security system that makes us have the refugee disaster in Europe that we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6268	The matter is essentially about refugees, but we're in more terms. Taking part of the immigration flow that came to Europe, we saw those who came to safe countries but who chose to move on and all the way to Norway. Does the representative Christoffersen think that the level of welfare benefits in a country does not matter where you choose to travel?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6273	It is not the representative of Christoffersen who believes it, but experts in this area, such as the Commission. Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe, Nils Muiznieks. He has gone through established research in this area and says in clear text, both in writing and on direct questions from me in the Strasbourg Questionnaire this April: there is no such thing. There are push and not pull effects that lie behind today's refugee stream. His recommendation is that we focus on integrating the people who are allowed to stay, the people that the Progress Party Councils are going to give permanent residence in Norway, and that we use the resources to integrate them and not push them into poverty, because it doesn't help anything, it just inhibits the integration of people who are going to stay in Norway. These are the people we're talking about – people who are entitled to our protection, and who Sylvi Listhaug is going to make stays in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6280	Only until the answer was given to the undersigned. I think there are relatively few who agree with the representative Christoffersen that the level of welfare benefits does not make Norway more attractive than countries with lower welfare benefits. But my next question is: how does the representative of Christoffersen think that a Norwegian person will feel if he has worked abroad for a few years, comes back, is exposed to an accident and is not entitled to disability, while a refugee will be entitled to disability benefit from day one if a similar accident should happen? How does the representative of Christoffersen think that that person will feel it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6287	I see a great difference between a relatively resourceful Norwegian citizen who travels abroad to work for a few years – he has every opportunity to get involved in what legislation applies, and to cover up for the kind of situations – and a refugee who comes, who might have acquired rights in his own country, and who doesn't get anything. There are two completely different life situations. In integrating refugees in Norway, sending them directly into poverty is a bad tool. Studies are available, inter alia: from Denmark, which shows how poor and low social welfare levels and cuts at social welfare levels actually lead to the opposite of what a person wants to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6294	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6299	In this case, the government follows up the refugee agreement at Stortinget from November 2015. We propose to abolish the specific social security rules for refugees in the area of popular security. At the same time, it is proposed to increase the living requirement to five years for a number of social security benefits. The rights of asylum seekers and refugees in the Norwegian social security system have remained largely unchanged since 1967, although both working life, benefits, social security rights and, in particular, asylum and immigration policies and quantities have changed considerably. The UN Convention on Refugees implies that Norway has an obligation to allow refugees to benefit from popular protection so that they can gain rights. It's not about this discussion. However, the benefits of the refugees in the Norwegian population are significantly beyond our obligations. This means that refugees are entitled to pensions, disability benefits, redundancy benefits, transitional benefits and other benefits even if the normal conditions of the Act on Membership and Social Security are not met. In other words, the requirements for obtaining the same benefits are more stringent for the Nordics than for other types of new nationals. I think the reasons are thin for having these arrangements when we have some hundred or a few thousand a year, but as it comes in tens of thousands of times every year, it's actually urgent to change these rules. That was why the Storting asked the Government in the refugee settlement to start work with a view to introducing housing requirements for the receipt of cash support and benefits that do not support work and activity, and asked the Government to: ‘to review specific arrangements for refugees and asylum-seekers in the public interest and to ensure that activity and earnings requirements are imposed on them where it is natural to do so, with a view to promoting them for the purposes of the Storting as quickly as possible.’;» So what we're doing now. If the Stortinge believes something about that wording and votes against everything that comes, then I fully agree with the case rapporteur, who says that the opposition has one position when the media's searchlight is on them, and another position when they hope people have forgotten it. The government proposes, but for some strange reason, does not get a majority for refugees to be treated in the same way as other groups, such as the United Kingdom. persons who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis and Norwegian nationals who return to the country after long stays abroad. This concerns benefits for surviving spouses, child pensions, redundancy benefits, benefits for single parents, benefits to compensate for expenditure on improving working capacity and working life, and, in some cases, basic and auxiliary benefits. The proposal to raise the requirement for living will contribute to better integration, increased activity in the labour market and, of course, to real savings in the state budget. So for the right to benefit as a single mother or father, it is proposed to raise the claim from three to five years. You get it for the cash support, which doesn't have this today. I'm glad that the Storting joins, but it's quite obvious that you should do the same in terms of social welfare for lonely parents. The government's proposals are good, they're fair, they're sustainable, and they're generous. Therefore, it is extremely disappointing that the Workers' Party and Jonas Gahr Støre are once again moving away from the long-term responsibility of the Workers' Party, together with the Right, in Norwegian immigration and refugee policy. We see the opposite of a Gahr Støre who runs away from responsibility and closes his eyes to the challenges facing Norway, once again. The fact that we succeed in managing the refugee flow is whether we are able to include our new countrymen in the world of work. The first bid for us in the Right is to include more people in the working life, that it should always pay off to work. It must not be that you earn more in social security than you do in work. It undermines the workline and creates a social security trap for the individual. It is both a poor labour policy and a very poor integration policy. And integration is the key point in this context. These include: on Norwegian training, job assistance, assistance for jobs, kindergarten and SFO sites, on the capacity of the large community to implement the knowledge and competences of new citizens, and the community's efforts as neighbours, individuals, students and in the organisational life. Prime Minister Erna Solberg is quite right in saying that tightening is also necessary to prevent unnecessary polarisation between supporters and opponents of Norwegian asylum policy. Today, the majority of the majority of the population do the refugee service in a double sense. They get full rights in popular peace from day one – not all nordics get it. Right-wing think more will go further on social security, and more will be against refugees in general. This is a matter that screams for rematch. We get the fight after we have won the election for the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6323	If we are to create a society with space for everyone regardless of where you come from, it is absolutely vital that we manage to include those who come to Norway because they have had to flee from war and misery. Compared to other countries, small differences exist in Norway, fortunately. That's good. But unfortunately, the number of poor children is increasing. It's a development we have to turn around, and we have to give every child the opportunity to get a good school, an education, and we have to make sure that adults can get into work. Knowledge and work are crucial for the prevention of long-term poverty. After the fall in oil prices and the rising unemployment rate, which now, fortunately, seems to be falling, we see that those who are most far from working life have been pushed even further behind in the queue. So we have to do more to help them. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports proposals to abolish housing requirements for helpers. It is good to ensure that those who need some assistance to be in the labour market do not have to wait for several years to get an offer to do so. The government, in its proposal, has presented proposals for changes they believe will strengthen the working line and ensure non-discrimination between refugees and other Nordics. The intention of the proposals is certainly good, but the Christian People's Party believes that the measures do not take. The amendments proposed will result in those who already have the financial burden only getting it even more demanding. It won't strengthen the incentives to get work, rather on the contrary. One of the proposals to which they are given a majority today is the introduction of a five-year housing requirement for cash support. I believe that this is a completely incorrect measure. This proposal promotes child poverty and increases the diversity of our society. Of course, excluding immigrant families the cash support will not automatically open the doors for women to work. Instead, the most vulnerable children lose out on this decision. The SSB has just presented the results of the living conditions survey among immigrants in 2016 and confirms the findings from the report on low-income families, which came earlier this year. It showed that immigrants have a heavier economy than the rest of the population and are overrepresented in low-income groups. A completely central key to changing this statistics is work. Of course, we all agree on that. But we also know that the obstacles must be exceeded, and they are about language, competence, attitudes and culture. Instead of excluding these families from a statutory right and freedom of choice that all other parents have in this country, the Christian People's Party will attach a language training requirement to the cash support. Rather, we are contributing positively to the strengthening of these parents' ability to enter the labour market, rather than increasing the disparities between poor and rich. With this, the Christian People's Party has promoted a proposal: ‘The government asks the Government to propose a change to the Cash Support Act which makes language training mandatory for cash beneficiaries with a shorter residence period of more than three years.’ The proposals contained in the proposal affect refugees. Special arrangements for refugees relate to refugees under the United Nations Convention on Refugees, so-called Convention refugees, and to persons staying because of the general security situation in their country of origin. Persons who are allowed to stay in Norway on the basis of strong human considerations are not subject to the specific provisions of the public interest for refugees. The government argues that these refugees should not be better placed than the Nordics who have lived abroad for a period to return to Norway. I totally disagree with that. You can't compare those who are forced to flee with those who have chosen to move. There are two different groups. I address the proposal we have made, and as I said, we are going to support the proposal to abolish housing requirements in the context of receiving relief measures, but we are going to vote against the government's proposal to introduce a five-year housing requirement for cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6344	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6351	It's getting late in the evening, or it's probably not evening anymore. The Christian People's Party participated in the asylum agreement – signed the asylum agreement – where the government was asked to review the special arrangements. The Christian People's Party then agreed that refugees had special arrangements. I would assume that when you ask the government to review it and come back to Stortinget with one thing, it is natural that you want to follow it up. What has changed since the Christian People's Party signed the asylum agreement and until today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6360	In my post, I say very clearly that there are differences between refugees, i.e. Convention refugees, and people who are allowed to stay because of strong human considerations. It is quite possible that there has been a review of the arrangements, but it cannot be expected that full support will be provided, and especially for proposals that prevent integration rather than promote integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6365	The asylum agreement contains both refugees and asylum seekers. Another thing the Christian People's Party signed on was that one should go through and look at the increased use of living requirements. What proposals today on increasing the use of living requirements will the Christian People’s Party vote in favour?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6372	We are going to vote in favour of our own proposal, which we have been promoting in the Chamber today, which is about setting requirements for mandatory language training for cash beneficiaries with less than three years of residence. I just want to repeat what I said, that it's quite okay that the government has had a review and has come to the Storting and is promoting proposals, but to promote proposals that prevent integration, rather than promoting integration, and that actually also contribute to the fact that those in a low income situation are going to become even poorer, cannot be part of the Christian People's Party. This affects – not least – children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6377	Poverty is a serious challenge, and we fully agree with the Christian People's Party that it must be combated. The Progress Party believes that the best way out of poverty is to ensure that more people get into work and become integrated. That is one of the reasons why we introduce the five-year requirement for cash support, because we believe it will strengthen integration. Then the representative, Mr Becquerad, is concerned that the proposals will create more poverty. I think it's a little special that now that we want to remove special advantages and create equal rules for everyone living in Norway, it's going to create poverty. Does the representative Bekkevold think that it is worse for a Norwegian to live in Norwegian welfare benefits with those rules than it is for a refugee?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6384	To belong to a low-income group, not to be able to afford to let their children, for example. I think I'm just as painful whether you're an immigrant, or you're a Norwegian. The point is that many of the suggestions you're making here are based on just removing a scheme, it's an automatic way of getting out of work, and that it's an automatic way of saying that if you tighten the rules on cash support, immigrant women get into work faster. The very many of these women are experiencing closed doors. It's not that they automatically get into work, and that means that in the short and perhaps longer term these families will only get even poorer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6389	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6394	This case concerns the amendment of three laws – three laws relating to refugees. And I want to underline it once again: this is about refugees and not immigrants, which the main figure of the Progress Party is systematically talking about in order to create confusion. This applies to refugees. Staying in Norway as a refugee is not easy. It's a tight loop. There are people who really need to stay under international agreements. We have a People's Security Act that was introduced on 1 January 1967. It also helped to provide the minimum pension for, among other things. self-employed and housewives with no own income. There was a great deal of progress for many – there were many people who had not had their own income on their tax returns. It was followed by a change of law in 1971 by Social Minister Egil Aarvik of the Christian People's Party in the government Away at the time. Then it came into the law that refugees were considered to be in a special position with the right to an age-limited minimum pension. This is incredibly central – that we have had an exception from 1971 based on the fact that refugees are in a special position. EEA workers and Nordics who have lived abroad have often earned pension entitlements that they can take with them to Norway. Norwegian citizens who have lived abroad may also be voluntary members of the population, while refugees cannot normally bring with them rights to Norway from the country from which they are refugees, to put it diplomatically. In addition, we received additional social benefits introduced by the 1998–1999 Equalisation Communication, presented by Social Minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, which was intended to provide income protection for a small group that fell outside other schemes and to relieve the social assistance budgets of the municipalities. I would like to stress that the background to the changes that are now being proposed is the situation in 2015, when many asylum seekers came to Norway. In 2015, there was no border control in the Schengen area – it did not work – and Europe’s outer border was in crisis. The central party is for us to have border control to countries outside the Nordic region. The central party sees the national State as the weakest protection. Not all may come within the Norwegian borders, but all within shall be treated with dignity. As I said, we must follow the UN Convention on Refugees and be in favour of the European Union's relocation programme. What I'm experiencing now is that the government's proposal and reason for it, means that those people who get refugee status no longer get the dignified life situation the Center Party wants. The proposals have met with great resistance, not only from KS and Nav, but also from NHO. I would say it so strongly that the proposals inspired by the Progress Party bear the mark of an attempt to replace the lack of border control. That's what's at the core. Changes are to be made here for refugees who, when refugees come to Norway, are to be sent back to their country of origin so that they do not have to come to Norway for any reason. - This is unworthy. This leads to a situation for these people where there are greater differences and larger problems also in Norway. That's why the Center Party has a fundamental argument behind our recommendation today. We support the proposal to abolish the residence requirement for the right to help, but do not support the rest of the legislative proposals. We are therefore in line with what the Christian People's Party representative said about the cash support. We're also in principle at that point. The centre party votes against II, which relates to the cash support, and our comments are otherwise stated in the cancellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6420	The fact that the representative Lundtigen and the Central Party are responsible for a naive immigration and integration policy is widely known. I think more people in this room remember well when the representative Lundtigen opened up the possibility that Norway could accept up to 100,000 immigrants to Norway, and that was to be financed by reducing public employees' wages or cutting wages. But there is one thing I agree with the representative of Lundtigen in, and that is that everyone in Norway should be treated with dignity. I think everyone in this room agrees. However, the representative Lundtigen clearly believes that the arrangements applicable to all the others in Norway are inadequate, as he believes that refugees should have special rules. My question to Lundtigen is, what is unworthy of the rules that the rest of the Nordics have to deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6428	It is sad to see that the representative of the Progress Party systematically operates misinformation and repeatedly talks about immigration policy. That's not what we're talking about in this case, it's refugees. Then it refers to my statements of 100,000. I was one of the few who was on Lésvos and then the flow of refugees, so 5,000 refugees board the ferries entering Athens every day, and those people moved on up north. They were going to Scandinavia, to Germany, to Sweden, to Norway, and that was possible, because there was no border control. There was the reality within this system. Fortunately, it became a change so that one did not receive the flow of refugees to which it was then due. It was just an observation by my side of what could happen when there were free and open borders. But further to the answer to the question: Refugees are in a special position. They've been since 1971, after Social Minister Aarvik, and they're going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6437	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6442	In this case, there is a great deal of progress in the welfare of the government. So the shoulders are a little high in the debate, and that's because there's only two changes that there's going to be a majority for today. One is to remove housing requirements for helpers; the other is increased housing requirements for cash support. The first thing is supported by SV, so I don't need to spend more time on it. Like the representatives of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, I can be quite clear that, on the SV side, too, it is only what we vote for today's debate. But in the case of the second, about living requirements related to cash support, I would like to make some comments. This is an example of a blind understanding of the line of work, arguing that the goal of work means removing arrangements for people, which in reality leads to loss of income without a job in sight. In fact, here we are talking about excluding those who are far from working life, the possibility of receiving cash support, but there is no job that they can do. Believe me, SV has in no way reversed and changed its vision regarding cash support and that arrangement. We will still replace the cash support with a waiting allowance for those who are waiting for kindergarten. But I want to emphasize the value of actually having some common standards in a country. I want to emphasize the value of having universal arrangements, the value of the community setting up to ensure fundamental dignity and that everyone has something to live for. The alternative is need-tested schemes, it's more bureaucracy, it's poverty traps, and it's that we're going to be reduced to being our own success smiths. It's a policy for increasing differences, and that's what the government has provided for as long as they've been in power: that the differences in the country have increased considerably. Fortunately, there will not be a majority of the welfare ministers that are wanted today. Fortunately, the differences will not be reinforced by the proposals that are being promoted today, but for which there is no majority. It is also interesting to hear the representative Wiborg promote undocumented claims that refugees come to Norway because of Norwegian welfare schemes, and not because of war and unrest and conflict in their home country. That the Progress Party has a divisive rhetoric is nothing new. On the contrary, it's a sure sign that it's nearing choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6457	The representative, Erlend Wiborg, has asked for a line, and it's going to be a line change. The President would like to recall that the reply should relate to the post held.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6464	I have done so, and I will continue to do so, among other things. now to the representative of Bergstø, who spoke of the fact that the proposal of the government today is a great hit in the welfare state. What she calls ‘great social well-being’ is that we want to introduce equal rules for everyone in Norway. The representative Bergstø spoke about universal arrangements, that's exactly what we're saying – that we're going to have one set of rules in Norway and not have special treatment. Then the representative also talks about people fleeing from war and unrest. Yes, of course. But we know that once you have come to a safe country, there are many who go on – from Austria to Germany to Denmark to Sweden and Norway. Does the representative believe that the level of welfare in a country does not matter where refugees or immigrants choose to live?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6471	The fact that people are deprived of welfare arrangements has nothing to do with the quest for equality. Treating absolutely all people equally is a sure recipe for enhancing differences that exist. The representative of Wiborg argues that it is unfair that only children are granted child welfare because it is not taken into account that there are different life situations, different people and different fates, which should also come under different schemes. This is a known argument from the right. You talk like people get poorer, make it easier to get a job. The fact that people are getting poorer is going to make you look better in language and learn Norwegian faster. The fact that you're getting poorer is going to make you fresher. The party of progress is leading a divisive policy for increasing differences. It's married to a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6476	I record that Bergstø says that the value of having universal arrangements is very important – I interpret it as having equal arrangements – and also that everyone should have something to live on. It's not about taking away from the refugees all the public benefits, it's about having refugees get the same social benefits as they get. I don't think we've yet received any wise, logical or reasonable answer as to why it's obviously worse for refugees to get the same benefit as the nordics get than that the nordics can be treated in the same way as refugees. I really don't understand the logic. Why is it worse for refugees that they receive the same things that the nordics will receive? What's the problem with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6481	Here we are talking about people who have not had the opportunity to earn rights. Comparing people who have lived abroad for a few years, with refugees, is quite special and quite wrong. I think it is remarkable that the fury, aggression and anger of the Progress Party go beyond the fact that some people are given a basis for living, for a worthy old age and to cope as upright people in Norwegian society. On the other hand, SV has chosen to put the forces in those who do not, and to put the political weight and energy in the fight for all to have a fundamental dignity – not excluding any possibility of paying for housing, pants and bread.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6488	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6493	As many refugees arrived in Norway and Europe in the autumn of 2015, our systems were tested. This was true both of our immediate reception systems and of our long-term immigration and integration policies. If we're going to be able to do our part in the international effort to receive people on the run, we need robust systems that get people working, and that help to achieve good integration. In connection with the refugee agreement here at Stortinget, the government was given the task of reviewing the various social security schemes that we have, to see if there is a need to make changes that ensure efficient and correct incentives for work. I want to thank the government for doing this job, which is the background to the proposition we have for treatment today. And so it is that the Left cannot support the multiple of the proposals that have been made. The main reason is that we fear that the sum of these proposals will lead to a group that is already poorer than the poorer, and because we have not seen evidence that the various proposals will particularly contribute to increased activity. Some of the proposals, however, are good and constructive and will be supported by the Left. It applies to the proposal to remove outage requirements for access to facilities, and it applies to the proposal to impose outage requirements in order to increase cash support. The left is in principle opposed to the entire cash support scheme, including: because it prevents integration, participation and equality. This also implies that there should be at least a front-end requirement before one can receive it. This was also one of the few concrete points of agreement in the refugee agreement. On the other hand, the proposal to transfer elderly and disabled refugees from old age and disability pensions to supplementary benefits does not receive our support. We can hardly see what the purpose of this is, except to create more bureaucracy and a weak social security network. Nor does the proposal to impose out-of-court obligations to allow refugees to benefit from important schemes such as: support to a single mother or father, the Left sees as peculiarly reasonable. We have an open mind to discuss the various suggestions in the proposition, but we have chosen to reject most of them in line with the option. This is based on the actual realities of the various proposals, but also on the fact that much of the underlying argument is not particularly good. Firstly, the principle of non-discrimination between refugees and other groups is not particularly effective. Comparing someone who has a deliberate choice of moving to Norway to work or bow with someone who comes here because they're hunting for escape is not a good comparison. People who voluntarily move between countries must be able to expect to be able to run a certain level of planning in terms of social security networks and income, and they should accept certain requirements for butid etc. before they can benefit from the welfare schemes to which they have not paid. But refugees, who have tended to earn welfare rights and income in their homelands and then lost everything they owned and were forced to flee, are simply not reasonable to have the same expectations. Equal treatment is to treat the same case equally, but a refugee and a work immigrant is simply not the same case. Secondly, it is difficult to see that the government in this proposition has demonstrated some particular degree of so-called ‘pull’ effect with Norwegian welfare arrangements. In theory, of course, it can vote, but in reality, it is hardly possible that there is transitional aid that determines whether in a desperate situation, people should choose to sit in a step-by-step rubber boat and make a dangerous journey across the Mediterranean. The left is concerned that we should pursue a good integration policy in Norway. The most important thing is that we have an introduction programme that works, that language training is good, that we contribute to sustainable urban development, and not least that refugees are able to get to work as quickly as possible. I would like the government to concentrate on strengthening this work in the future, so that we can continue to welcome people to our country who are taking a new chance and who can contribute with their skills and experience only they get the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6521	In 2015, many refugees came to Europe. Only Norway had more than 31,000 refugees. This was also the background for the refugee settlement here at Stortinget on 19 November 2015. Through 18 points, the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left asked the government to take action. In other words, there was a broad majority standing behind. I record that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left are no longer subject to the premises and the clear intentions of several of the decisions of the refugee settlement. It's e.g. difficult to recognise the refugee settlement in the Workers' Party's description in point 1.2 of the setting. An attempt is being made to create the impression that the agreement only asked for a ‘overpass’, to ‘map’ and ‘assess’, for the sake of the overview. However, the agreement was exemplaryly clear and concrete, with clear requests for action in a particular direction. It also made the follow-up to decisions easier. In paragraph 6 of the agreement, the government included: asked to ‘ensure that the level of benefits for asylum seekers should be such that Norway does not appear economically attractive in relation to comparable European countries’. In paragraph 16, the government was asked to ‘start work for the introduction of living requirements for the receipt of cash support and benefits that do not support work and activity’. In paragraph 17, the government was asked to ensure that activity and earnings requirements are imposed on specific schemes for refugees and asylum seekers where this is natural, with a view to promoting this for the Storting as soon as possible. That's exactly what a bill has now been put forward. It is proposed to wind up most of the specific provisions of popular fear for refugees, which today provide refugees with full minimum benefits from social security, regardless of their length of residence in the country. It is proposed that the most vulnerable groups, namely disabled persons and persons over 67 years of age, be guaranteed an equivalent benefit through the State scheme of supplementary social benefits. In other words, the proposals that have been put forward balance the different considerations I perceive that the Storting is concerned about. Furthermore, it is proposed to raise the living requirements from three to five years for pensions, disability benefits, redundancy benefits and social benefits for a single mother or father. Furthermore, it is proposed to introduce a five-year housing requirement for the right to cash support. On the other hand, it is proposed to abolish the three-year residence requirement for rights to facilities, including: to strengthen the possibility of work. In the light of the hearing opinions, the proposal has been adjusted on some points. The government is committed to tightening up the benefits in order to bring them closer to the schemes in other European countries, in order to ensure that the beneficiaries have an adequate connection with the Reich. At the same time, the government has been concerned that proposals should not be made at the expense of people's ability to live good and safe lives, nor should large costs be passed on to municipalities. The proposed mitigations would help to facilitate a humane, sober refugee policy and ensure the long-term sustainability of the schemes. There will now be significantly fewer refugees. This does not mean that the basis for making adjustments has lapsed. The review has shown that the schemes are not appropriate and that they are adapted at a different time. Regardless of the number that comes, it is necessary to have social security legislation that is equipped for proper management, not only of those who have already arrived, but also of any future situations of exceptional inflow. I am pleased that a Joint Committee endorses the proposal to abolish the requirement to have a residence permit for auxiliary rights and that there is a majority in the Committee on the proposal to introduce a residence requirement for the right to cash support. I can only take note that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left have now left important parts of the refugee settlement. Finally, I note that this means that Norway will continue to be at the top of the world with regard to the economic conditions we offer asylum seekers and refugees, with schemes far better than those offered to other groups in Norway, including those who have come on a humanitarian basis, Norwegian citizens with long stays abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6546	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6551	I hear that the Council of State also repeats the claim that the Stortinget already decided on 19 November 2015 that we should cut. We didn't. What Stortinget asked for was that one look at whether the level of social security benefits led to a disproportionate proportion of asylum seekers to Norway, in order to promote any changes that might counteract it. Has the government found such a link between the population's concern in Norway and the number of asylum seekers/refugees who have come to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6558	I quoted the relevant decisions taken in this room in connection with the conciliation. There is no doubt that the Storting made clear the direction in which it was intended to take, by raising the living requirements, by introducing activity performance requirements and also by ensuring that our benefits should not be significantly better than those of other countries. Norway has significantly better benefits than other countries. You can always ask the question about what are the push factors, and what are the pull factors. I don't think that's the Norwegian public interest that's why people choose to leave. It is war, flight, need and desire for a better life that does. But once the decision is made, it's quite obvious that the country that you think you've heard or assumed will be able to give you a chance for a new life, will be the country you're going to. When so many people chose to pass land by country, all the way up to Europe’s outpost, there is reason to believe that the belief that a good life could be lived here was one of the reasons why they chose to go right here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6567	I record that the Council of State knows something that no one else knows, and – as I said in my contribution – something that the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Council of Europe has actually undergone relevant research and failed to identify. But if the Council of State puts so much emphasis on what one believes and assumes is why people travel to Norway, I want to draw attention to a conclusion from the Brochmann Committee, which says that better access to work and education in itself can make Norway more attractive to asylum seekers. How does the government intend to handle that claim? Should we cut there, too?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6576	Two things: One is the report referred to in the setting. I've read that report. The report does not document anything in the direction of what the opposition says it does. The report is about what seems integral. It also states that it is important that refugees should not be discriminated against in comparison with the rest of the country. Norway is highlighted among those countries that are just offering good offers in terms of languages and other factors that are important for integration. I think the opposition is drawing that report quite far in its direction, and that is not the basis for it. In the case of other measures that are important for integration, it is important that this message or the social security proposal be seen in the context of the integration message adopted by the Stortinge not so long ago. The government presented a separate integration message that was just about how we could increase integration – by working with the introduction programme, by increasing the possibility of taking Norwegian training and by ensuring faster housing in municipalities. There is no government that has managed to create as fast a settlement in the municipalities as this government has ever done. You have to see the matter in context. It is then seen that there is a focus on integrated action, language and work on the one hand, and also on a sustainable level of social benefits on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6585	I just remind you that I allowed myself to quote a sentence from the conclusions of the Brochmann Committee. I did not draw any conclusions from it: I just asked how the Council of State would have intended to deal with such a situation if it should arise – that getting work and education in Norway would make us more attractive than other countries. But let it go. We have had many debates in the UK that social disparities are increasing, and child poverty as well, and then the Council of State has shown a great deal of will, showing action plans and measures, and believing that poverty reduction is high on the government's agenda. So now we have one thing in which heavy hearing bodies, including among the government's closest political allies, strongly warn and say that these proposals contribute to increasing poverty. Is it not quite contradictory to fight poverty with one hand and increase it with the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6592	The most important measure we can take to prevent poverty for children is to ensure that their parents get to work. One of the main reasons why we have chosen not to do anything with the schemes we have that are derived from income is just that we want to stimulate the work line a lot more. None of the benefits you receive on the basis of income – daily allowances, sick pay, parental leave – are touched, and it is precisely to strengthen the working line of the schemes. I note that the opposition does not agree with us, and I think that is a pity. If Norway appears attractive because it is possible to get a job here, it is a good thing. It's good that people can work, that's good. One of our starting points in the integration message is to ensure that people are equipped to get to work, through Norwegian training, qualification and faster clarification in reception. Fast track, a fast track, into working life is something that this government has just started.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6599	To this proposal to introduce a five-year living requirement for cash support: I expect the government will – and the government will also get a majority for it, unfortunately – do this because they believe that this prevents integration and challenges the working line. But what is the reason why the government then believes that the immigrant families who receive cash support, and the women we are talking about here, will automatically get into work? Because this must be the basis for tightening the cash support law to what you do here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6604	In paragraph 16 of the refugee agreement, the government was asked to ‘start work for the introduction of housing requirements for the receipt of cash support and non-work and activity benefits’. The majority decided to impose a living requirement for cash support, and it would be alarming if a government had not followed it up. Then it is absolutely right that you do not get an automatic job because you introduce a living requirement for cash support. There are other measures to do so — through rapid settlement, through improved Norwegian training, through competency monitoring, through qualification and out-of-office activation. That's exactly what the government is following up, for example. following the decisions taken in the examination of the integration message. There we follow up decisions by decision to strengthen this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6611	On the website of the Progress Party and in several interviews, the representative Wiborg is quoted as follows: «FrP and I believe it is completely wrong that immigrants should immediately be given better rights than the Nordics.» Then I wonder if the Council of State believes this is a correct description of both the arrangements that we are discussing today and the use of the term'migrants'. I also wonder whether the Council of State seems to be holding the debate in a wise tone on the part of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6622	I haven't seen these videos that the representative refers to, so I'd prefer that the representative Wiborg respond to it himself. But I agree with him that equalizing groups with the same starting point, i.e. those with short residence in Norway, is right. I think it is reasonable that people who have come on a humanitarian basis and those who have had long stays abroad and come back to Norway without rights are also treated as equivalent. It is not obvious that a person here on a humanitarian basis and a person with refugee status will be treated as differently as they are. I'm recording that SV and the others mean it. I don't agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6629	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6636	I note that the debate is an extension of the debate we had on both the conciliation on tightening up and the conciliation on integration, but this issue is about the follow-up to the decisions we made then. I also record that for refugees, asylum seekers and quota refugees, work is encouraged to be integrated. Work is not such as to hinder integration. That's some of the starting point for the order that the government comes back with. I also noticed with some surprise that the Workers' Party took the position that you were in the contract, and then you got the investigation, but then you don't mean anything about it anyway. The capital asked the refugee settlement of 19 November 2015 in paragraph 16 of the Government to ‘start work for the introduction of housing requirements for the receipt of cash and non-work and activity benefits’. That's what the proposition is responding to. It's not a new discussion if we're going to have it or not. The order was like this because we thought it was necessary to tighten up. It doesn't mean the Labour Party anymore, and I'm going to think that people across the whole country will be surprised that you won't, as the Council of State did, see that you have to have the same starting point, both people who come to our country for different reasons, and people in our country, with the challenges they have. Furthermore, in paragraph 17 of the refugee agreement, the government is asked to ‘read through special arrangements for refugees and asylum seekers in the public interest and ensure that there is an activity requirement and a vesting requirement for them where it is natural’. Work relationships that promote integration are some of the answers to this question. The aim of these changes was, inter alia, to: that we should have labour incentives, that they should not be weakened, but rather that they should be strengthened. That was the order from a broad settlement. I think it was just a handful of non-participants from the SV and the Greens. Of course, the labour rates in the proposal are not targeted at people who are already elderly or disabled, but at those who come to work in our country, at an adult age, and who today can easily be disabled precisely because they have the prospect of a guaranteed minimum pension without any self-employment because of the specific provisions of popular security that we have. That's exactly what's the starting point for the order in the agreement on tightening up. I look at my surprise that the Workers' Party just wanted to investigate and then will not stand by it, and is thus unable to continue a settlement. It should be that it pays to be at work for everyone. As today's rules for refugees are designed, few or no incentives are given for work. It's a good thing – work leads to integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6647	The party of progress has been accused several times of both creating racism and spreading xenophobia. That's wrong. The Progress Party believes that each individual is unique, and that all people must be treated equally, regardless of sex, ethnicity, status or religion. The Party shall be non-discriminatory and non-discriminatory or special. It is not equal treatment that creates envy and irritation, which, unfortunately, can contribute to a negative attitude towards new countrymen, in the worst case racism, but it is special treatment that can create such situations. The right-wing Party government wants to change the Norwegian welfare system so that the working line continues to be strengthened, and most people are treated in the same way. It makes sense, and it's fair. Unfortunately, the majority of the population, including our so-called supporting parties, the Left and Christian People's Party, want special treatment and discrimination. It's illogical, and it's unfair. Providing special treatment to refugees with regard to public financial support will neither contribute to increased integration nor to increased employment. Rather, it could lead to increased sparks and increased conflict between the North and the Refugees. Special treatment for refugees and good public benefits may result in more refugees choosing to come to Norway to access our well-being goods. It's an evil circle, and it surprises me that the mass mass doesn't see it. In good Norwegian it's called being naive. It is not just illogical and unfair to give people who have never been to Norway, who have never contributed to Norwegian society, special advantages that the Nordics do not have or will never have. It is also native to believe that special treatment and good economic incentives will not influence refugees and migrants to choose Norway as their destination instead of other European countries. That's what we see in Minnesota. It's no coincidence that Somalis chose Minneapolis, and that they have settled in Minnesota and not other states in the United States. We look at municipalities that have particularly good social arrangements, and we saw it during the migration crisis in 2015, when there were hordes of migrants going all the way up to Sweden. They went through Denmark in search of Sweden, because they had heard that there was better. The right-wing Party government has put forward a good proposal that would have helped raise the threshold for accessing Norwegian welfare goods, which would contribute to more equal treatment, fairness and further strengthening of the working line. But unfortunately, the Left and Christian People's Party and the great crowd fail, so that the opposite is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6658	Almost two years ago, many refugees and asylum seekers came to Europe. There was enormous pressure on several European countries, especially Germany and Sweden, but also here in Norway. In a very short time, there were over 30 000 asylum seekers. This led to a change of mood among the population, which led to strong movements in polls, how many went to the Progress Party, which for decades has fought for a strict asylum, refugee and immigration policy. The tactic of the Workers' Party and the Center Party at that time was to stick itself tightest possible to the Advance Party and agree to almost all of our demands in the asylum agreement that was adopted on the Stortinget before Christmas half a year and a half ago. The asylum agreement provided the basis for us to have one of Europe's most stringent policies in this area, in line with what the Progress Party has been fighting for a long time. The political signals spread rapidly, because despite the continuing large influx of migrants into Europe, the consequences here in Norway are that we now have the lowest asylum figures since 1997. As asylum figures sank, as media interest in asylum policy sank, the Workers' Party and the Centre's interest in maintaining the agreement was clearly lowered. It is obvious that the agreement was concluded to stop electoral leakage, not because one had a real desire to implement policies. There is no longer a majority for the clear intentions of several of the decisions of the asylum agreement, and I think that is disappointing. The Progress Party still wants one set of rules applicable to all. We believe that the same is true whether the asylum figures are high or the asylum figures are low. We believe it is wrong that refugees should be given better rights without further delay than norsemen. We believe that the welfare systems should treat refugees, Norwegian citizens and others legally residing in Norway in a non-discriminatory manner, and I think it is a pity that the majority now vote against proposals that would tighten their performance and bring them closer to the arrangements in other European countries. I think it is surprising that the Central Party and the Workers' Party believe it is entirely right that Norwegian citizens who move back to Norway after a long stay abroad should have worse arrangements than new arrivals. I think many will respond to the fact that the Workers' Party and the Centre will maintain special arrangements for refugees, but at the same time it is good that this comes now before the elections, so that those who are concerned with a strict but fair policy in this area see that the Workers' Party and the Centre are not to rely on when rhetoric is to be turned into politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6671	I think it's a shame to let the opportunity you have now go away and later on as if you don't have any knowledge of how the system we have today works and what kind of outcome it gives. When you hear some of the speakers, you should think that the models we have today, unchanged, give good results, and that's not the case. If we look at everything we have of accessible objective statistics, empirical research and knowledge in this field, it turns out it's not sustainable. The representative from the Workers' Party referred to the Brochmann Committee, and I think that's interesting, because the Brochmann Committee is very clear about what the consequences are. It's cut in welfare. I quote from an article about the sample report: ‘If a large proportion of immigrants are not self-sustaining, high levels of immigration will increase the growth of welfare expenditure and public services with current Norwegian welfare levels, the sample considers. The Brochmann report points out that this comes at the top of the wave of old age that will challenge the funding of the welfare state in the decades to come. Higher immigration also provides more citizens, who, even with Norwegian economic behaviour, use more well-being than the tax money can finance. Oil money is completely independent of the number of persons, and they have to be shared among several inhabitants of Norway.’ Furthermore, the article states: ‘Inland migration will thus strengthen future cuts in public welfare services as a result of the ageing wave and decreasing revenues from oil and gas production, concludes the sample.’ [[...]] It's not like you don't have any knowledge of what happens if you don't do anything about the welfare systems we have, to get more people into work. The most serious thing that the sample points to is that this breaks with trust, for more information it says: ‘High immigration will create an imbalance for AS Norway, may also challenge the cross-political integration of the basic structure of the welfare state,’ the sample leader believes. “Big parts of the majority population may eventually wish to reserve full access to the well-being of the Norwegians born, or prefer private solutions,” says Grete Brochmann. She believes that economic inequality can also put the immigrant population on the sideline.’ So it's not small things you come up with. The whole welfare model we have, and the way we've organized our society, is in danger of being unable to finance it in the future if we don't make any fundamental changes. I believe that what the government has presented would help to make wise changes in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6695	The relation to the refugee agreement is a central point in this debate, and I think it is very clear from the representative of Christoffersen and from the other side that the Labour Party stands by what we said in the conciliation. But it's not an automatic obligation to follow up the government's understanding of that point – I just want to make that clear. When I take the floor, it is primarily because I am sitting and listening, both in the office and here, to the content of part of the argument, especially from the representatives of the Progress Party in this discussion. Of course, it's emotional, but for my part I have to say that I'm quite startled by it, because if we listen to what's being said, and the depth of what's being said, it challenges Norwegian political culture and understanding of society in very, very many ways. It really challenges the basics of Norwegian democracy, namely the understanding of humanism. What we're talking about here, as the representative Lundtigen said so very well, and as I'm going to repeat, are refugees. There are people who have come here and who have been accommodated, including by the current government, in order to be in Norway and live their lives in Norway. And then through some measures, proposed by the government, we're going to make life more difficult for them. Why on earth are we going to do that in Norway? It leads to a number of technical arguments to build up such an understanding, which is, of course, nothing but a bureaucratic approach. This also applies to the Council of State. It is just like making a difference between the fact that the workline is useful, which everyone agrees on, and the fact that you have to have these arrangements, which have been in place for 20 to 30 years – of course, it's not the opposite. These things complement each other and make it easier for these poor people who have come to Norway. And even worse is this argument that goes back: if it gets too good, it gets too many. What kind of humanistic approach is that, when you're in a situation where you've given these people residence in the country? This is a debate we should not have had. It is a proposal that should not have been promoted because it has such a challenge to the basic understanding of Norwegian democracy and humanism.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6706	The timing of this matter was not nice, and the continuation is not. When the refugee crisis came, a lot of people were fleeing. The Norwegian government caused chaos. They reaped a political majority in the Storting for tightening up proposals that have subsequently proved to be unsustainable, and thank you for the fact that several parties turn around in proportion to what they agreed on then. It would not have met Norway’s obligations towards refugees, and this would make integration more difficult. I hear someone is proud that you don't accept people as refugees from war. I – and SV – deeply disagree with that. Being a fugitive is not envying anyone, as it seems to anyone. When I heard the representative Schou, I was completely horrified. She talks like it's like this in Norway that healthy, working people get bad luck. No, they don't, and they shouldn't have it. Neither shall refugees be allowed if they are healthy and employed. But if, on the other hand, they're incapacitated, they need a safe performance to live off. It's best for them, and it's best for Norway. And if they need redundancy money for a period of time to get to work, why wouldn't they get it? Then they have the chance to get to work, all of which are here and trade fairs about. It is exactly the same as this government, the Progress Party and the Right, are engaged in other welfare and social policies. They think that when people are taken from disability, child allowances, redundancy and social assistance, they become as healthy as they are, and suddenly there is a labour market where they too want them — or that they somehow get language skills or skills that they don't already have. I remind you again that these are the refugees who are coming. They have not had the chance to do so in advance. Then I hear the Minister of Labour standing and saying that they are strengthening language training. No, this government has not strengthened language training. On the contrary, they have cut the language training for asylum seekers, and some of them may have refugee stays, and some of them may stay on a humanitarian basis. It is a scheme for several unemployed people. It is a scheme for more people to sit passive for a long time and not use the time rationally and learn Norwegian. It's a scheme for spending too much in the future, while giving people the opportunity to support themselves if they're not at work is a scheme for the benefit of the whole community.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6715	There has been a relatively predictable debate. There were few who had really expected Gahr Støre or Battle Violence Vedum to have taken the time to be in this important debate. I record that they have chosen to stay away from it. What we clearly see is that the Labour Party and the Center Party are trying – and I think they have the best intentions – but I'm afraid they're doing the refugees a bear service. Thinking that giving people passive benefits without making demands will help them in society, believing that it helps people who in many cases have also had terrible experiences, I think, is wrong. I also record that the representative Martin Kolberg said that the Workers' Party is at the refugee agreement. They just have a slightly different understanding of it. But it says in the asylum agreement that the government is going to review the special arrangements for refugees and asylum seekers in the public interest and ensure that there is a requirement for activity and earnings where it is natural. The working party is doing the opposite today, with one exception – the cash support. But in all other areas, the Workers' Party does not follow it up. If the Labour Party believes that the government has misunderstood the asylum agreement, then the Labour Party as the country's largest party must be able to come here and make alternative proposals on how they want to remove the special arrangements. The Working Party does not. They've rather gone into partnership with the Center Party and choose a naive policy. The representative, Andersen, almost seemed to think that only refugees are struggling in the labour market and that only refugees are struggling with poverty in Norway. There are many Nordics who are struggling to get into the labour market. There are many Northmen who are struggling with poverty. If there's one thing I think they think is deeply unreasonable, it's that refugees have special advantages that they don't have. It will not help the poor Nordics, on the contrary, it will help to create increased polarisation and a great frustration, which the Progress Party shares, because as I said, we want one set of rules in Norway. We are against special advantages for refugees, immigrants or other groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6726	I take the floor because several of the speakers of the Advance Party are deliberately mixing terms like refugees and immigrants. It doesn't seem like they're willing to have the level of precision that is otherwise necessary here. I'm not disappointed with it – that's just the way the Progress Party is. The centre party doesn't do refugees a bear service. What the Central Party is doing is to stand firm on what has been Norwegian policy since 1971, namely to recognise that refugees are in a special position. When you flee to Norway, you flee from everything. You are in a very vulnerable situation, and then you need to have a safety net in Norway so that you have a reasonable opportunity to get started in your new country and do a good job – I know as many refugees who do what they can to earn the living in their new country. The progress made here is quite inconvenient. It's about the Workers' Party and the Center Party having a naive policy. They don't have a naive policy. They have a most realistic policy that allows these people to become useful people in Norway. It is an advantage for Norwegian society as well. It is a clear advantage for Norwegian society that we have a view that we can continue it as Social Minister Egil Aarvik introduced in 1971 that refugees should have a special position. I'm proud of the decision that was made that time, and I'm proud that it's being continued today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6735	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6751	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6760	President – and to all those who come with in the thousands of homes: first, let me thank the Committee for good cooperation. The redundancy allowance is an important matter. Together, it is the majority of all the government's proposals. I'm glad. We are voting for important changes in the AAP, a system that is relatively fresh, but where the need for adjustments has already occurred. Let me start by saying that debates on social policy in Norway tend to become ideological. I really don't think that's necessary. All the games that are represented on Stortinget are concerned about having a good, well-functioning welfare state that helps those who need it. The issues discussed at that time relate to the instruments, and it is absolutely relevant to look at the research. Work clearance money was referred to at introduction as the internal file of the Nav content reform and for an internal file it was. One of the points was that you had to work to clarify more people for work. Is that what happened? No, it wasn't. There was a vague health-related benefit where it was risked to go further away from work than it was when you entered it. The research tells us about young people who after four years at the AAP are not a step closer to work, but who also lose their income insurance. The only option you're left with is social assistance. The research also shows that some initially might have received better help from the municipality, for example. young people who are not seriously ill or drug users. It reminds us of one of the conclusions of the evaluation of the Nav reform: ‘Perhaps the most alarming finding in this article is the seemingly persistent adverse effects of NAV on young recipients of health-related benefits. It may appear that this group and its job prospects have been most vulnerable to the transition to NAV. The growth in the number of young recipients of health-related benefits has long been a concern, and it does not appear that the establishment of NAV has improved the situation, rather the opposite.’ That's why the government's doing with Nav, important. It is therefore important to look at the social policies of the cooperation parties in the context. We have strengthened social assistance by imposing an activity obligation on young social assistance recipients. We've strengthened our work on drugs and psychiatry, both by reintroducing the Golden Rule and through an important step-up plan of 2.4 billion. kr, mainly to the municipalities. What does that mean? Well, that means building alternatives to the health-related benefits in Nav. There is a lot of evidence that people today are being pushed into health-related benefits in the absence of good alternatives. That's why we're building them up. And research carried out by one of the strongest research environments in this field shows the strong medialisation trend that has been going on for a long time. The changes in the AAP we are now discussing are part of the overall social policy of the government and the cooperation parties. There should no longer be a vague health-related performance; there should be a health-related performance, so that we ensure that it is the ones that need it. There shall be no system of poor follow-up; there shall be a system of good follow-up. Therefore, for the first time, we legislate on follow-up points in the scheme. There shouldn't be a system that takes a long time to get out of, there should be a system where you get help faster, so that you can get back to work as quickly as possible. Therefore, we change the duration of the scheme. I would like the Workers' Party to see the need to act responsibly in terms of improving social security schemes, making them work better. But that time is over. The Labour Party is no longer interested in these issues — they have abdicated completely in social policy. Maybe the bad memories of implementing the Nav reform that do, maybe they think it gives them a short-term, opportunistic gain. But the sum total is that the responsibility for these questions is gone, the desire to find the good solutions is subliminal. There is today a majority for all the proposals that the government has promoted – a new, comprehensive social policy that makes Nav better equipped to help people faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6786	Too many people are outside both work and education today. There's a common political opinion about that. The means of remedying the problems, however, are in disagreement. Today's proposal, which deals with reductions in redundancy payments, is one of many examples of how the parties think differently about the use of tools. We saw that in the matter we have just finished. We have seen it in the matter of cutting the child supplement for disabled people. We've seen it in the cut for day-to-day money recipients. We've seen it in the cut in supplementary social benefits and housing support. So to case rapporteur Heggelund: No, the Labour Party has not abdicated in social policy, but we don't believe that cutting benefits gets people to work. The redundancy money should do just that – get people ready for work or find out if you can't work, or maybe work. The government's proposal is two-fold: to reduce the number of people entering the scheme and to reduce the number of people entering it. It's a good goal, but a goal that requires a completely different tool use from the government and the bulk of the population adds up to it. Today, it is said that there are many who come into the system of redundancy payments without having a heavy enough diagnosis. Does it help to cut the time a person can use to be clarified? The Labour Party believes that people must be on redundancy until they have received the follow-up needed to get to work. Only then will we combine the workline with inclusion in the working life. For some, one year is long enough; for others, it may be right to extend the time beyond what is today’s limit of four years, if that means that a person can return to work — in whole or in part. In the big news about Nav, which we dealt with in this room just a few months ago, there was a great deal of excitement that we needed powerful Nav employees who could see how people are different and more tailoring offers to the individual. I don't remember anyone thinking that the authority would be a restriction on the possibilities for them on redundancy payments, that the system would be more important than humans. There are over 100,000 young people between the ages of 18 and 30 who are neither employed nor educated. It's worrying. That's perhaps the biggest challenge we're facing as a society. The measures must then be in line with the challenges. I noticed that case rapporteur Heggelund did not use ‘powerful’ about the government’s actions, as he used to do in the past, and that is perhaps because he has had to think about them, because there are no strong measures in the government that the government has put forward. You will meet a case handler after two months. That's $30 million. SEK for new actions to be used for a target group of 100 000, i.e. DKK 300 per person per year, and there are 1000 new action sites to be allocated to the same 100 000 young people. I understand that the representative Heggelund has stopped calling the measures powerful, I don't think it would have passed the NRK fact check if they wanted to check that. The inadequacy of the government's efforts may be the reason why the government parties' representatives have spent a lot of time throughout the spring trying to convince themselves and others that our response, an activity reform for this particular target group, is both unclear and useless. Unlike the majority, we have new ideas and solutions that are more ambitious than cutting benefits, but unfortunately the majority do not seem to support our proposal for an activity reform today – just as our proposal for a Nav Young was almost ridiculed in this Chamber. Then it's interesting to see what the government's agreed with the opposition about now. There is, of course, a powerful measure to ask the government to consider facilitating a pilot scheme of measures for young people who are neither in education nor work. I think it's gonna swing. Lack of activity and measures by the government are the reason why we do not support the proposal to narrow down the criteria. We will vote in favour of the proposal that we undertake to codify the practice that says that only four weeks' stay abroad is approved for those who receive redundancy payments, unless such a stay is medically justified. I would also like to raise the proposal that we are promoting together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6807	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6812	I would like to start by saying that I believe the issue of the change in the rules on redundancy is one of the three most important issues we are dealing with in the Labour and Social Committee this majority period. The other two issues were the changes in the Working Environment Act and Prop. 85 L for 2016-2017, on special benefits for refugees, which we are also considering today. There is a simple reason why I believe these three matters are so important. They are all about the sustainability of the welfare society. The changes in the Working Environment Act make it easier for people to combine work and leisure, and it becomes easier for businesses to hire people. It gives people who have struggled to get to work, a fine opportunity to show what they're doing. The issue of special benefits for refugees is also important, because it decides whether or not the refugee should be pushed into an eternal life as a particular case and on the legitimacy of immigration policy, because it is not really the case that most people think there should be a difference in the rights they have. Back to the redundancy payments and additional benefits for work-oriented measures: the core of the case is essentially how we can help young people who are on the AAP back to or out in work. Transition to work and activity through closer and more labour-oriented follow-up shall be strengthened. We would like to stress that the redundancy allowance is a temporary benefit to ensure income in the clearing and execution of labour-oriented activity. I'm not going to repeat too many numbers from the message, but it's easy to get scared when you read about how many people are on the AAP, how many people aren't coming back to work, and how many people are going over to fall asleep. All in all, the message part is largely a description of how heavy it is. Then I think we should see past the statistics. Then we owe all the individuals to see that they are people, they are people with different needs, different assumptions and different ways back to work. The proposal proposes a number of changes. When we talk about something as big as the AAP, every change may seem small. We're going to remember that every change has a huge impact on people. That's why I believe that, for example. changes in the mobility requirement shall help some. Maybe this can lead to them getting a job where they're going to live. I believe that the obligation of activity can help someone to get up in the morning – try how much they can do to work. This may lead to finding a job adapted to their abilities. I also believe that all the changes we are making here today help the individuals to get to work. I am pleased that we are getting a majority for constructive and good improvements to today's arrangements. These are changes to get more people to work and to secure welfare systems in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6831	Work clearance allowance, AAP, is a temporary benefit which shall not exceed what is necessary to bring the beneficiary into or back to work or to clarify whether the conditions for receiving disability benefit are met. The main picture is that the AAP scheme did not lead to a shorter duration of social security than was the case in the past when the AAP was three benefits: rehabilitation, resettlement and temporary unpaid pay. One main problem seems to be that the follow-up of the individual is not good enough. The Christian People's Party supports the intention to clarify in its intended purpose that the scheme is a health-related performance, but believes that this clarification requires an offer to those who are not defined as having a claim to the performance. The Christian People's Party also believes that removing the opportunities for those who do not have a long residence in Norway to receive redundancy benefits will hardly help more people to get into work, but may help to keep more people out of work. The Government proposes to legislate the practice of the State of employment and welfare on the delineation of foreign residence for the recipients of redundancy benefits. This is about legislating current practices. However, legislation could make it more difficult for the employment and welfare movement to exercise discretion in the payment of redundancy payments. That is why the Christian People's Party is critical of that proposal. A number of objections were raised to the mobility requirement proposed by the government. The Christian People's Party believes that it should be the individual's situation and state of health that is essential for the appropriateness of requiring the removal of workers' redundancy payments. If not, the possibility of work can be reduced rather than strengthened. The government proposes to change the calculation basis for redundancy payments in a way that would reduce the number of people who have tried to get a job in advance of a period of illness by reducing the amount of work. The Christian People's Party is critical of this. We also believe that a standstill period of 52 weeks will be able to cut off people who have a real need for redundancy money, because they are out of work with a background to a significant health problem. The duration of the performance and the extent of exemptions is a particularly important point in this case. On the one hand, it is important that the AAP period is not so short that this leads to increased access to and pressure on disability. If the maximum duration has been reached and the disease that results in reduced working capacity persists, most of them are likely to be granted disability benefit. Having such strict limitations of duration that there are several dissatisfactions will not be worthwhile either for the individual or for society. On the other hand, the scheme should be temporarily more stringent than that of the current rules, with four years as a limitation and liberal exemption rules which provide for additional duration. The likelihood of transition to employment increases significantly as the maximum duration approaches. A tighter amount of social benefits can help to speed up the follow-up of the individual and start-up of the activity, which in turn can lead to faster work. The solution that the Christian People's Party believes best suits both needs is the option that also received the greatest support during the hearing – from 19 hearing bodies, including most municipalities, Nav offices, Specter, Works, YS and subsidized by the Joint Organisation of Disabilities and the Association of Norway's Disabled People's Association. This solution shall have a maximum duration of three years. Exemptions are not limited in time, but are subject to the conditions for exemptions. The central party is proposing this option, and the Christian People's Party will therefore vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6856	Experience has shown that there are many weaknesses in the work clearance system, weaknesses affecting those within the scheme. There are a lot of examples of people who don't get the assistance they need, and that time goes on and on and on. Nav needs to do a much better job, because the longer she goes on redundancy pay, the harder it is to get back to work. That's the starting point for the Center Party. In our view, it must be a goal for those receiving redundancy payments to be closely followed, to obtain concrete content and plan for their social welfare period, and to avoid waiting due to the fact that Nav's supervisors have too many to follow up. Furthermore, we believe that it must be in the best interests of individuals to clarify their situation as quickly as possible, taking into account the health challenges they face, and to make individual assessments on a case-by-case basis. We believe that a change involving a reduction in the maximum period of time for the receipt of redundancy payments from four to three years requires that the Nav offices receive resources and authority to follow up the users, and that the necessary exemptions are granted to those who need it. So there's a clear context when we agree to go from four to three years, that the Nav offices get the necessary resources to make the individual assessment, and that we get a completely different efficiency and ability for users to get a good deal, which they don't have today. However, the Central Party does not support a time limit on exceptions from the maximum duration and considers that the conditions for exemption need to be enforced locally by Nav. This means that it is Nav locally to have the last word for the extension of the period of benefit beyond three years and that this is taken into account when the decision is to be taken by the responsible Nav entity. That is our line, as I have said in many respects: give greater authority and responsibility to the first line in the public sector – authoritative professionals acting in line with management's intention. The centre party further points out that it has been suggested that people with health problems who need a longer social welfare cycle in order to clarify their working capacity or to return to work will continue to receive it. We believe it is absolutely essential that the guide at Nav locally has, as I said, real decision-making powers related to duration and exceptions beyond the maximum period. We assume that the beneficiaries of the redundancy allowance will retain the benefit until they are ready for work or other benefits. We therefore believe that exemptions from the maximum period should not be limited in time as proposed, because this would make it difficult for those in long treatment or intervention courses. Furthermore, there will be the possibility of longer social benefits for those who experience significant waiting time in the field of medical examination, treatment or placement in occupational activities or who have not achieved their objective within a certain time limit but are in an appropriate course of action towards work. The centre party is promoting its own proposal on this basis, and I'm taking it up. I am very pleased to receive support from the Christian People's Party – the Christian People's Party argued shimmeringly for our position on the matter – and from all the bodies that have supported this proposal. Furthermore, the Centre Party does not support the introduction of a standstill period of 52 weeks in connection with a new period of redundancy payments, § 11-31. We point out that under the applicable law, a reassessment is to be made of the terms of a person’s right to work clearance, based on a new case, in cases where the period of benefit has expired. We believe that a standstill period of 52 weeks will be able to cut off people who have a real need for redundancy benefits because they are out of work because of a significant health problem. We believe that these people will have no other opportunity than to apply for financial social assistance from the municipality if we do not implement what I have now said. Finally, the Central Party supports proposal No. 1, promoted by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. In this context, the Centre Party is aware that young people receiving redundancy benefits have to meet activity requirements if the health situation allows. There we are firm and clear: if health makes you work, you should also work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6875	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6880	For a long time, it has been clear that something needs to be done with the redundancy scheme. Too many people spend too long on redundancy money, especially on the young. We simply have a moral duty to clarify people more quickly. It's demanding for the individual to go in uncertain, and it's expensive for the country. As a result, we in the Left are very pleased that the government has now delivered this matter to the Storting, where a number of major and minor changes to the scheme are proposed. The case spokesperson has gone through these in a good way, and from the left side, we end up with the very thing that has been said, and to the main thrust of the proposition. The most important change being made is that the general rule, given the time elapsed, is changed from four to three years. In the left's view, it's very reasonable, yes, it's actually so reasonable that there's a change we've proposed in our alternative state budget over the last two years. In working with these, we went to the old proposals from when the AFP scheme was introduced and tried to find the background for why one in time landed on a four-year rule. But as far as you can see, this was only from a health assessment in the ministry. That's not a good enough argument for everything to be the way it always is. A period of three years should be sufficient for most people to make the necessary clarifications in terms of education, medical follow-up, etc. For us in the Left, it is important that this time requirement is not primarily a requirement for the individual user, but above all a requirement for the Nav itself. We know from experience and research that clearing users has a tendency to happen at the end of a social benefit period – that is probably just how the system tends to work, unfortunately – and that a user of the most urgent resources. What we do with today's decision is simply to give Nav a clear message that the future clarification should be made more quickly, for the benefit of the user. The purpose of this change is to clarify people faster, but a side effect is also that the public will save on some significant resources. For all those who come to work after three years instead of after four, we are strengthening the resilience of the welfare state in a respectable way. In connection with the Left's alternative government budget, the Ministry of Finance estimates that such a change would lead to an estimated 2.2 billion savings. kr per year. These are means that will come along well, for example. strengthening health provision, education provision and other follow-up. In the future, there must be a main line – in this system as in others – that we use the great resources to support work and activity, not passivating performances. Today's change is a good contribution to it. Not all will be able to be resolved in three years. Some need, for different reasons, a little longer time. Therefore, we recommend that there should still be an exception rule with the possibility of an extension. But we are some with the government in that there should be a deadline here too – not as today, that the exemption is unlimited. Two years seem to be a good balance between the different aspects here, and the left will support it. Finally, I would say it's a shame that we couldn't get an even wider plurality behind this change of laws than we actually get. It has been estimated at positive rates in the Labour Party in recent years, and as far as I have registered, the Programme Committee has proposed that they reduce the normal period for the whole of the AFP to two years, from the same point of view as we are now adjusting it down to three years. But in the Stortinget, the Labour Party stands firm in four years. I think the time will show that the change we're making now makes sense, and I hope that the other parties will come after, after and after.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6898	There is a clear distinction in welfare policy between the right and the left. But we still gather about some common visions for Nav, and we've assembled that there should be one door to well-being. That's good. But it's problematic that we have a government that is constantly trying to narrow the door or click it again. Because that's what happens when the Nav office is centralised and moved away from people and from community. This is what happens when entry requirements for benefits are narrowed in such a way that people can stay with poor health in a difficult life situation without social benefits. That's what we can do in dealing with this case, because even though we all agree that redundancy money itself is not good for young people, better systems need to be in place before the scheme possibly gets snuffed in. I've been talking to young people who've been on redundancy money for as long as this government has been sitting, without getting any follow-up. This is why we propose an activity reform to ensure that young people receive redundancy benefits with residual working capacity, job, activity, education. That's in line with what we're thinking. On several occasions SV has promoted a youth guarantee to give all people under the age of 26 the right to work, activity, empowerment. It is about young people having to have opportunities, and that close and individual follow-up is something that works. The government will cut in the number of years of performance, but without ensuring follow-up of them, because then it would have been done, and then it would have been done with clear and strong grips that held. It seems that the majority understands that the scheme is such that you have to go to the maximum level of a benefit, and that is not the case. If help and follow-up came early, it may be that several people were given the necessary clarification in the past, and that thus they did not need long passive social welfare runs, but were actually cleared for work or, if necessary, a lot before. I fear that many will be hit by cuts in redundancy money. I'm afraid that all those who have complex disorders, where it takes time to investigate the situation, where it takes time to clarify, do not get help in time today, because there is not enough force to ensure the follow-up needed for a previous clearing-up. SV does not disagree with everything that is being dealt with today, and as I said, there are a number of things that we gather about. We will, however, vote against all the amendments that have been tabled, because we disagree more than agree, and it has little purpose to flaunt paragraphs when the assumption of change is wrong. This also applies to the requirement in relation to living abroad, and it is because we fear that there will be a very rigid regime in which approved health trips will only be accepted as travel abroad beyond the weeks you have. And I think that's going to be too square and too sloppy. The reason I suspect that that's how it's going to be enforced is that in a journey of everyday life where you have more people to follow up than you have time to, there will be little room for discretion. That's why we're also voting against that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6911	Today, proposals for changes to the rules on redundancy pay are being discussed. The proposal will make the system of redundancy payments more labour-oriented. The proposed changes to the laws mean a narrower approach to the scheme, a tightening of the social welfare system, and an increase in labour incentives. In other words, we have raised the threshold into the order. We're reducing the period for how long you can go into the scheme, and we're making sure that the follow-up of those in the scheme is closer. The overall proposal provides a good balance for those who receive redundancy benefits to have a more activity-oriented and labour-oriented social welfare programme, and which facilitates a more flexible transition from redundancy pay to work. The main task of the government is to get more people to work. It is worrying that so many have long periods outside of work. This increases the likelihood of disability and permanent exclusion from work. We also know that the risk of not getting back to work increases with the duration of absence. It has been seven years since the introduction of redundancy pay and the replacement of rehabilitation money, re-routing money and time-limited unpaid pay. An important purpose of the conversion was to reduce the overall duration and increase the transition to work. None of the parts have happened. This is why the government is now proposing changes to the rules on redundancy payments. Some recipients of redundancy benefits need assistance from the State of Employment and Welfare for a short period of time before it is appropriate to try or return to work. Other recipients will need more extensive and long-term assistance. We have clear knowledge that better and more effective social benefits are achieved by initiating work-oriented activity in the past and by carrying out work-oriented activities and medical treatment at the same time. Nearly seven out of ten new recipients of disability benefit come from redundancy benefits. This shows the importance of obtaining more labour-oriented social benefits for recipients of redundancy benefits. The goal is several social cycles that end up with a job rather than disability. The most important step taken with the changes in the law is to reduce the length of time during which work clearances can be received. This will put greater pressure on both the individual recipient and the State of Employment and Welfare to make good use of the benefit period. There is also good evidence that the transition to work is increasing as the maximum duration approaches. The analysis in the notification part of the legislative proposal makes it apparent that the challenges of the system of redundancy payments are partly linked to the legislation of the scheme, but also to the content and quality of the work-oriented offer provided by the establishment. The legislative changes are the first steps forward and the government is pleased that the majority of the committee supports the government's proposals. In order to increase the transition to work and to support the positive effects of a time limit, more frequent follow-up of the recipients through the social welfare cycle is necessary. Youth is a priority group in labour market policy. Young people entering the labour clearance scheme will be given special priority in the follow-up work as a result of the youth effort we put in place in 2017 and where the government of the revised national budget has proposed to further intensify efforts. In the government budget for 2018, the government will return to the question of follow-up of recipients of redundancy payments more generally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6932	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6937	The time is not really in time to run replicas at this time of the day, but the Council of State said something in its post that actually needs clarification. My question is: has the transition to work increased or decreased since the introduction of the AAP scheme, compared with the three previous benefits?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6944	The transition hasn't improved. A number of reports show that the scheme is not good enough. It has shown that people have been walking for too long and had too poor follow-up, and that they have not met the intentions they had when the scheme was put in place, which was good. The three benefits were to be collected where there was uncertainty about getting back to work, but it has proved not to work. That's why we want to tighten the entry conditions, ensure closer follow-up of those who are part of the scheme, and also reduce the duration. We believe that this will increase clarification faster, preferably to work, possibly to disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6951	On page 23 of the proposition, it says: ‘In another study from Kann, Yin and Kristoffersen, they find that the probability of transition to work increased as the time of the maximum duration approaches, and that this was the case for the three previous schemes,rehabilitation, and fixed-term unemployment benefits, as well as redundancy benefits. For recipients of redundancy benefits, the transition to work was increased before the maximum duration of four years for both those who came from sick pay and those who had not had sick pay before they were granted redundancy benefits.» How does this match with what the Council of State answered my first question?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6961	All the experience of different benefits shows that the transition to employment is increasing as you approach the end of the social benefits, something happens to those who go on the social benefits. In the case of redundancy payments, we see that a whole of five go beyond the maximum duration and over to the exceptions. They go more than six years on benefits. That's why we want to tighten up. We see that too many not only go beyond the maximum period, but they also go beyond what is the maximum period. You go too far on benefits without being clarified for either work or disability, which shows that the scheme does not work well enough after your intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6966	I'm just getting more confused about the Council's answer, because further in the proposition it says: «For those who came from sick pay, there was also a significantly higher probability of transition to work, both 12, 24 and 36 months after the redundancy allowance was granted.» Is it true that what's in the proposition, or is it what the Council of State is now answering, that's what's right? That, I think, is a very important prerequisite in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6976	There's no doubt that what's in the proposition is correct. My point is that what we're looking at is that as you approach the end of the social security period, something happens very often. As I said in my post: Seven out of ten of those who come over on disability benefits come straight from the redundancy scheme. Anyway, we see that too many people get into the system, too many go there too long, they get too poor follow-up, and they don't get what they need to get back to work as quickly as possible. That's why we want to both raise the threshold to get in, reduce the time you can be in the system, and also ensure a closer follow-up of those in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6981	There's reason to drill into this, because it has nothing to do with those who come into the arrangement. My question is, is it true that those who are on redundancy pay now are longer in the scheme than those in the old schemes? Now I think the Council of State has answered quite a lot differently, and there is a pretty significant point in the criticism that is now being raised against the scheme in this room. Have you gone further or shorter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6986	It is possible that it is beginning to be late in the evening for a line exchange now. No, they don't go into the arrangement anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6992	This means that the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e6999	There is a striking similarity between this case and the previous case. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have a belief that the path to self-sufficiency through work goes through cuts in the social benefits of those excluded from the labour market — for whatever reason. Kullsviertro is known as the ‘cold burner’ as he replied to questions about what he believed: ‘What does the church believe?’ Next question: ‘What does the church think?’ Answer: ‘What do I think?’ It's getting a little bit too light. Therefore, I challenge the Right Party and the Advance Party here and now to document why they believe that those who have little should be motivated by less, while those who have much must be motivated by more – even those billions Right Party government spends every year on tax cuts for the richest. The Labour Party will also go to the cause that people do not get into work. Is there a mismatch between what the individual has to offer, and the working life actually demand? When health problems make it impossible to get into previous jobs, or do not get into the labour market, what do we do? Do we cut the social benefits, or do we build on qualifications and time to succeed? The working party goes to give people a chance. The right hand side and the front side go in front of the other side. For people at work, we talk health. The first entry criterion for redundancy benefits is sickness, injury or hearing, but not only that. The second entry criterion is that the disease, the damage or the listening actually means that you do not get to work or back to work. As if we were too lazy, we don't have a medical system, we have an acquisition system. At the same time, that right depends on the labour market situation. In times of high unemployment, as we unfortunately have during today's government, and especially for young people, the assessment is of course different from at times when the labour market demands more than those available. Of course, when we have a Right Party government that throws money at rich people instead of spending the money on getting people to work, there are also greater demands on those who are going to help people into work. During the Storting hearing on this matter, it was found that much of the time spent in work clearance is to wait and wait and wait in a condition of health, especially for those with MS and those with diffuse diagnoses such as mental illness and fatigue syndrome as ME, which unfortunately the health care system does not give a very high priority. Do we have a hub of competence, time, options and degrees of freedom enough to give the individual what he or she needs? Official Nav Office is one of the so-called Fantasies of the Right Party and the Advance Party. Now we have the first concrete case after we had the Nav message, and here goes the Right and the Advance Party in the opposite direction: cut performances, detailed regulation of Nav's operating space. It's not on your fingertips. That is why the government's cut-off proposal is not supported by us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7014	It is not difficult to admit that there is a lot of hub and work clearance money that is not working well enough. Reforms require new working methods, and there is much to suggest that there has been no prioritisation. We know that many people in Nav have good experience working like the Stortinget thinks Nav should work, close to the user, close to the workplace, but the challenge is that this always happens in test form. When the project period is over, it's back to old habits. The most important thing about any change in redundancy money must be to ensure better and faster follow-up, especially for young people, and we in the Labour Party are positive towards changes that can bring us closer to this goal. But in our opinion, it's not primarily the rules that are the problem, but the actual follow-up. So the changes in the multiples are going in for, because the focus is so one-sided. In the Labour Party, we have a long tradition of ensuring close and priority follow-up in the Labour and Welfare Act, not least through the Youth Guarantees. It's a continuous job, we need to step up our efforts to get young people to work. But what does the government do? Yes, they remove the youth guarantees and replace them with a non-compulsory and non-funded scheme that will put everyone in the same quandary. Either one is an 18-year-old drop-out from continuing or an unemployed engineer at the end of the 20s who has lost the job in oil, one should get the same offer for maybe $300 per youth. This will be tried by the right hand side as a reinforcement, but no one will wonder – it is cut. Our policy, as shown by our alternative budget, is to give young people greater priority. Follow-up, labour market measures and employment services must be strengthened. Then we have to have dedicated youth contacts that make it safe and prudent for young people to meet a comprehensive Nav system alone, youth contacts that are committed and at the same time flexible enough to respond and act at the time the youth contacts. We know that too many young people can wait for several weeks to lose their motivation and fall back into more destructive habits, and it may be a long time before the next window of opportunity opens. Closer follow-up is the key. It is about governance, priorities and resources. The Labour Party is investing through Nav Ung, Activity Reform and Youth Guarantees. The government party cuts and tries to produce it, repeatedly, as ‘powerful actions’. It's a story so far from reality that she would hardly be approved by Asbjørnsen and Moe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7027	Given that almost half of the National Assembly of the Workers Party wanted to go further when it came to reducing the AAP period, than the government has proposed, it may be a bit funny to hear the moral aggravation the Labour Party has against the proposal that is now being adopted. So it's a moral insult The Workers' Party's representatives should have against their own program committee and large parts of their own national meeting. The representative Lise Christoffersen has a good point in waiting time, among other things. on psychiatry – I can also mention intoxication in this connection. This government has reduced the waiting time for rushes and psychiatry by 40 pst. Several representatives talk about the importance of good follow-up. Agreed – that is why we are laying down minimum requirements for the follow-up of the scheme. That's what the red-green parties are against today. It's a little strange when you talk so much about the importance of follow-up, that you vote against that law. That doesn't make any sense at all. Another thing that's surprising is this eagerness to talk about research in the field, about the research done on the redundancy scheme, which both tells us about different groups who could get better and faster help if they hadn't been on redundancy money, but had ended up in the right place in the social security system, and tells us how people get better done as it gets closer to the deadline for the benefit. This is completely ignored. And then you try to make it seem like this is a saving proposal or a cutting proposal, when it's not. It's about getting more help faster than today, and it's about getting more people in the right place in the social security system and getting the follow-up they need to get into the workplace as quickly as possible. I am pleased that we are adopting these proposals today. All the government's proposals will be given a majority. It's time we cleaned up the mess the red-green parts created when they crashed the Nav shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7038	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7054	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7063	Since it is so late in the evening / early in the morning, I shall carefully say that this matter shows how important it is with good civil cooperation. The left comes with some proposals in this proposal for a representative to strengthen social rights for self-employed people. It's an incredibly important theme. And then there are RNB negotiations where the government delivers on the proposal for a pension, and it also agrees to strengthen the health insurance basis for self-employed people – important measures. The civil side cooperates well for self-employed people to gain stronger social rights, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7070	I agree with the rapporteur that this is an important matter, but one that should be completely unnecessary, because the Stortinget decided in June 2014 that the government should: «to review the framework conditions of individual undertakings such as fiscal conditions, social rights, simplification measures, access to capital and the means and efforts of the public sector, with a view to promoting concrete proposals for improvements». The council replied that the matter would be followed up in an appropriate manner, and it was accepted in Prop. 1 S for 2015-2016: ‘The government will further assess the tax conditions for different activities in the tax notification that follow the Tax Committee report. Now 2014:13.’ But nothing happened. So there's reason to ask why the parties that claim they're more concerned with business and business start-ups than others, haven't followed up the big decision. The follow-up has at least been so deficient that at the end of the four-year period, the Left Support Party must present a number of representative proposals that apply to self-employed persons. It must mean that we have a government that has lost all ambitions to have an executive power. The Labour Party considers that there is a need to review the social systems of self-employed workers and, in this respect, refers to a report prepared by Menon Economics for the Academics on the organisation of work. The report shows, among other things: differences in taxes and charges for different forms of organisation and the welfare goods applicable to the various forms of organisation. The estimates in the report show that the differences are less than many believe. For our part, it's important to be clear on those contexts. These include: therefore we see that there is a need for a review of the social arrangements for self-employed workers, for employees of their own ASs, and for freelancers. From our point of view, we have programmed such an overall review, where we see benefits and payments in the context, as does the Menon report. So to the vote today. Today, we are going to vote in favour of proposal 2, from the Centre Party and the Left, which says that we should strengthen the system of sick pay for self-employed people. It's related to what we're going to present in our alternative to RNB. We are not going to vote in favour of proposal 3, from the Left, which uses the word'silent', but in the RNB we are going to support the government's proposal for an increase in the tax deduction. I refer to our proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7091	The representative of Rigmor Aasrud has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7096	I'll be brief. The Left has proposed in the document that the Stortinget: ‘will submit proposals to the Government to strengthen the sickness scheme for self-employed persons’. The center part appreciates it very much. It is entirely in our spirit, it is entirely in line with what the Central Party has done, and we are also pleased by the Central Party's agreement that appears to go into port between the government parties and the supporting parties in the revised national budget, that compensation for sick pay for seafaring traders is increased from 65 p.m. to 75 pst. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth But also there we have to remember that there are 16 qualifying days for seafaring traders, so there is still too much difference between the economic security of employees in the case of sickness and that which is the security of seafaring traders. The lack of safety of sea-going operators in the event of a disease is not least an obstacle to young people and women starting up as sea-going operators. So we have to move on. We are pleased, on the part of the Centre Party, to receive the support of the Workers' Party for proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Left, and we also expect subsidiary support from the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Progress Party for that proposal. It will be interesting to follow the vote. I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7112	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7117	In the left hand side, we're concerned that it'll be easier to start on its own. That people choose to take a chance and follow their ideas, of course, can end up bad, but it can also end very well. And is that one thing we know, it's important for a dynamic economy that people dare to follow good ideas that can eventually evolve to become a real resource and a success. That people employed themselves by finding a market for the products and their services is very good. If they're able to do more work, it's even better. Unfortunately, there are too few people today who dare to start on their own. I think that a significant obstacle to that is the lack of social security. In particular, there is enough reason to believe that for us women can be the lack of social security that is an additional obstacle. In any case, we see that too few women start on their own, compared to men. This is a not insignificant equality challenge. For too long it has been that self - centered people have a poorer health - care system. Security of income in the event of disease is an essential part of the Norwegian welfare model. Where ordinary workers have a very rough system, and perhaps even on top of it, some say, for too many years, self-employed people have to be very careful about statements on a very low level. Fortunately, something has happened in Stortinget since this proposal was delivered – we have actually come several more steps. Through the process of the revised national budget, the co-operation parties have been some of them to strengthen the private pension saving scheme for self-employed people and we have been some of them to strengthen the sick pay scheme. This is simply very good news. It shows that when the civil parties work together, we are able to pursue a policy that is both social and business-friendly at once. On behalf of the Left, I would like to express my joy today that we have moved on several steps in this area during the period, after years of hopeless struggle under the red-green. First we got equal care money, and now we've strengthened both the pension scheme and the sick pay scheme. This is what I hope the self-employed in the country knows to appreciate, and I hope it can create a more secure everyday life for those who are walking around with a founder in their stomachs. As a consequence of the budgetary unity of the revised national budget, I would like to inform you that we are leaving proposal No. 2 – then the Centre Party may decide what they will do in view of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox On the other hand, I will be allowed to raise proposal No. 4, from the Left, because there are still some steps to go when it comes to ensuring self-employed better framework conditions. This proposal, to retain the right to a further day's allowance when it comes to the transition from paid work to self-employment, I think it might be very positive for many people who want to use a situation of unemployment to create something new.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7130	The President understands that proposal No. 3 then has not been taken up, but that proposal No. 4 is taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7135	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7140	The representative of Marianne Øren has taken up the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7162	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposals are being voted on. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide a follow-up to the NOU 2016:18 ‘Heart language’ as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present its own forecast of Southern Sami language, culture and industry.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7218	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Toppe, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to inform the Stortinge annually about the achievement of the objectives and the development of the contact medical system.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7562	A, I, § 3-2, second paragraph, new first sentence and II shall be added. The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7576	It shall be weighed against the other paragraphs of A, I.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7586	It is voted on by A, III to V. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7601	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7611	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. I The majority asks the government to provide for a probationary system whereby municipalities that wish to do so may, on application, be authorised to take over the responsibility for dental care from 2020. II The majority asks the government to ensure that the test system, starting in 2020, in the municipalities wishing to take over the dental service, is followed up by 2023. Based on the experience of the probationary period and changes in municipal structure after 2020, further expansion to several municipalities can only take place after 2023. III The government asks the government to assess the need for financial incentives for municipalities that want to take over dental services. IV The majority asks the government to come back with its own case assessing the transfer of the total dental service based on the experience gained from the trial scheme, which may provide the basis for a transfer decision from 2023. VT The government is asked to start the work of building up dental skills in the municipalities. The construction of dental care skills in municipalities will have economic and administrative consequences that the government will have to return to in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7641	It is voted on by B, I to IV. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7655	It's over B, V. The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e7673	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to evaluate continuously the changes in the Patient and User Rights Act on the obligation to inform parents, in order to ensure that the introduction of the exemption from the obligation to inform parents ensures the best interests of children. The size shall be appropriately informed and at the latest within three years.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e8178	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e8189	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e8344	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e8354	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e8485	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e8500	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e8509	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Ove Trellevik on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party proposal No 2, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 2 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to pay an environmental tax per year. kilos of unprocessed fish exported and returned to Stortinget in the State budget for 2018, so that the fee can enter into force no later than 1 July 2018. The fee shall provide clear incentives for conversion to safe closed installations without the release of lice, waste and chemicals.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e8533	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out an overall review of the concession fee, technological development and evaluation of the scheme of development concessions in the aquaculture industry. The Marine Fund shall also be evaluated with a view to assessing the extent to which total taxes and taxes of industry provide incentives for the growth of aquaculture and the solution of environmental challenges and contribute to the participation of municipalities in the creation of value added. The aim is to ensure maximum growth and sustainability, as well as predictable income for municipalities through the Maritime Fund.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e8583	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to settle the export requirement in respect of the number of kilograms to be applied per year.» The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e8609	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to draw up conversion rules so that the number of kilograms is calculated in round fish.’ The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e8739	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e8749	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. The government asks to include trophies within the limits of how much fish can be taken out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e8769	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Erlend Wiborg on behalf of the Right and Advance Party proposal No 2, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose a change to the Cash Support Act which makes language training mandatory for cash beneficiaries with a shorter residence period of more than three years.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e8795	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No. 28 February 1997 No. 19 on public security is amended as follows: Chapter 1 the seventh indent of the table of contents is deleted. The current eighth, ninth and tenth indents are going to be the seventh, eighth and ninth indents. Paragraphs 1 to 7 are deleted. § 3-2, sixth paragraph, is deleted. Paragraphs 3-3, seventh paragraph, are deleted. The current eighth term is going to be the seventh term. The third sentence of the third paragraph of Article 3-9 is deleted. Paragraphs 11 to 2 are replaced by the following: § 11-2 Prior membership It is a condition of entitlement to redundancy benefits that, for at least five years immediately before the claim for benefits is made, the member has been a member of the social security system. When assessing whether the condition has been met, periods of service in international organisations or bodies of which the State of Norway is a member are disregarded, makes financial contributions or is responsible for contributing to the manning of. However, the condition of five years of prior membership of the first subparagraph shall not apply to the person who has been a member of the public security for at least one year immediately prior to the presentation of the benefit requirement, if: (a) he or she was a member of the social security scheme when the working capacity was reduced by at least half, see Sections 11 to 5, and after age 16 has periods of membership at least equal to periods without membership; or (b) he or she, having reached the age of 16, has been a member of the social security scheme with the exception of a maximum of five years. Paragraph 12-2, second paragraph, is deleted. The current third and fourth terms are going to be the second and third terms. the third paragraph of Section 12-3 is replaced by the following: Disadvantages under the second and third paragraphs of Section 12-2 on exemptions from membership of the population until the default date shall be retained only as long as the person concerned is a member of the public interest. The same applies to disability benefits on the basis of the third paragraph of § 12-13 on disability benefits for young people. Paragraphs 12-12, fourth and fifth paragraphs are replaced by the following: When the condition of prior membership is fulfilled in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 12-2, future social security periods are counted at the earliest from the time he last became a member of the social security system. The period until that date is counted as vesting time. Future social security periods are not included when disability benefits are granted under the third paragraph of Section 12-2. Paragraphs 12-13, fourth paragraph, second sentence is deleted. The second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 12-15 is deleted. The current third sentence is going to be the second sentence. Paragraph 15-2, second paragraph, is deleted. The current third term is going to be the second term. point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 17-3 is replaced by the following: c) had a residence permit under Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act and was a member of the social security scheme. Paragraph 17-3, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: The condition in the first subparagraph does not apply when the survivor has a residence permit under Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act and is a member of the social security system. The second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 17-4 is replaced by the following: The same applies to the pension or transitional benefit of a person who has a residence permit under Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act and who receives the pension on the basis of the provisions of the second and fourth subparagraphs of Section 17-7. the second paragraph of Section 17-7 is replaced by the following: The basic pension is determined on the basis of the life of the deceased person in accordance with the provisions of Sections 3 to 2 and 3 to 7. A person who has a residence permit under Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act and is a member of the social security scheme receives a full basic pension regardless of the provisions on social security. the fourth paragraph of Section 17-7 is replaced by the following: The special supplement is determined in accordance with the provisions of Sections 3 to 3. A person who has a residence permit under Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act and is a member of the social security scheme is given a full special supplement without regard to the provisions on social security. Paragraph 18-2, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: The condition in the first subparagraph does not apply when the child or one of the parents is granted a residence permit under Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act and is a member of the social security scheme. the second sentence of the third paragraph of Section 18-3 is replaced by the following: The same applies to child pensions under the exemption provisions for persons granted a residence permit under Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act and to supplementary pensions granted to orphans under the second paragraph of Section 18-5 on the basis of the provisions for young persons under Sections 3-21 and 3-22. Paragraphs 18-5, first and second paragraphs are replaced by the following: If one of the parents is dead, the pension for the first child shall be 40 pst. of the basic amount. The pension for each of the other children is 25 pst. of the basic amount. If the surviving parent receives or would have had a reduced pension because of a lack of social security, the child’s pension will be reduced accordingly. If one of the parents or the child is granted a residence permit under Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act and the child is a member of the social security scheme, a full pension is provided regardless of the provisions on social security in Chapter 3. If both parents are dead, the pension for the first child shall be the same as the pension for the surviving spouse, see sections 17 to 7 and 17 to 12. The pension is calculated on the basis of the performance of the hazard or mother and shall correspond to the greater of the two amounts. The pension for the next child is 40 pst. of the basic amount, and the pension for each of the other children is 25 pst. of the basic amount. If the basic pension of the first child is reduced due to a lack of social security, the child’s pension of the other children will be reduced accordingly. If one of the parents or the child is granted a residence permit under Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act and the child is a member of the social security scheme, full basic pension and full special allowance shall be granted regardless of the provisions on social security provided for in Chapter 3. the second paragraph of Section 19-2 is replaced by the following: The condition relating to five years of social security referred to in the first subparagraph shall not apply to: (a) who, at the age of 67, was entitled to disability benefits in the event of occupational injury; and (b) the person who fulfils the conditions for entitlement to a pension in Sections 17-3 and 17-4 and in either § 17-5 or § 17-10. The second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 19-3 is deleted. Paragraphs 19-8, seventh paragraph, are deleted. The current eighth and ninth terms are going to be the seventh and eighth terms. the fourth paragraph of Section 20-10 is replaced by the following: The person who, at the age of 67, received disability benefits due to occupational injury receives a full guarantee pension regardless of the provisions on social security periods laid down in the first and second subparagraphs, in so far as the part of the old-age pension corresponding to the invalidity due to the occupational injury is concerned. The second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 20-10 is deleted. In the following provisions, the numerical word ‘three’ is replaced by ‘five’: § 3-2, second paragraph, first sentence, § 3-5, fifth paragraph, § 3-8, second paragraph, first sentence, § 12-2, first paragraph, first sentence, and third paragraph, § 12-12, first paragraph, point (a), § 15-2, first paragraph, § 16-2, first paragraph, points (a) and (b), § 18-2, first paragraph, points (a) and (b) of the first paragraph, § 19-2, first paragraph, first sentence, § 20-10, first paragraph, fourth sentence, and second paragraph, first sentence. Paragraphs 22-8, seventh paragraph, are replaced by the following: When benefits have been paid under Law No 29 April 2005 21 in the case of supplementary social benefits for persons with short butide in Norway, and where the old age pension or disability benefit is paid from social security, the amount of the supplementary benefit paid shall be reduced by the amount corresponding to the amount of the supplementary benefit paid for the same period. II In Law 29 April 2005 No. 21 on the supplementary benefit to persons with short butide in Norway is amended as follows: Section 1 is replaced by the following: § 1 Purpose of law The purpose of the laws is to guarantee a minimum total income for people who have reached the age of 67 and who have lost low or no returns from the population because of short butide in Norway. Section 2 is replaced by the following: With a refugee, a person who has residence permits under Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act is in the law here. With an unaccompanied refugee, one in the law here is a refugee who has not reached the age of 67 and who fulfils the conditions of the people's protection laws §§ 12-4 to 12-7. The current first, second and third terms become the second, third and new fourth terms. the first paragraph of Section 3 is replaced by the following: Supplementary social benefits are provided to people who are resident in Norway and who either have reached the age of 67 or are unemployed. A person is considered to be a resident if he/she is registered in the population register and has Norwegian citizenship, or if he/she has obtained permanent residence permits or temporary residence permits that provide the basis for permanent residence permits. Paragraph 4 first and second paragraphs shall be replaced by the following: The right to supplementary benefits falls when a person stays or intends to stay abroad for more than 45 days in conjunction or for more than 45 days in total for a period of benefit, see Section 11. If the rest of the world is intended to last more than 45 days in conjunction, the benefits will decrease from the month following the month of the rest of the world. In other cases, the benefits fall from the month following the month in which the person concerned had been abroad for 45 days or the sum of the stays abroad for a period of 45 days. Section 5 is replaced by the following: § 5 Full supplementary benefit Full supplementary benefit for persons aged 67 years or over shall correspond to: a) the minimum pension level at a high rate for single social security workers and for social security workers with an ecthema who have not reached the age of 67 and who are not unemployed; (b) the minimum level of pension at the normal rate for social security contributors with eczema who have reached 67 years of age or who are unemployed and for social security workers who share housing with their adult children or other adults, without defining the relationship between them as such; [[couple of buildings]] Full supplementary benefit for displaced persons shall correspond to: (a) the minimum annual performance of high-rate unadulterated social security benefits for single social security workers and for social security workers with an eczema which has not reached the age of 67 and has not reached the age of unaccompanied refugee; (b) minimum annual benefits for disabled persons at the normal rate for social security workers with an eczema of 67 years of age or who are unemployed. The same applies to social workers who share housing with their grown children or other adults, without defining the relationship between them as marriage-like. [[couple of buildings]] Section 6 is replaced by the following: § 6 Income to be deducted from supplementary social benefits Full supplementary social benefits shall be reduced by the income of the social security funder as well as by the spouse. However, if the spouse has reached the age of 67, his/her income shall only be included in the test of the benefits of the social security funder with that part exceeding the full supplementary social security benefit referred to in Section 5, first paragraph, point (b). However, if the spouse is not yet a refugee, his/her income shall only be included in the test of the benefits of the social security funder with that part exceeding the full supplementary social security benefit referred to in Section 5, second paragraph, point (b). As income is considered a) labour income (b) pensions, disability benefits and other benefits from people's rights to life support, including allowances; (c) introduction aid for newly arrived immigrants, qualifying aid, cash support and contributions under the Marriage Act; (d) other Norwegian public or private pensions, disability benefits and other life support benefits, including dependant allowances; e) capital income f) corresponding income or benefits referred to in the letters (a) to (e) from the rest of the world. For displaced persons, labour income shall not be lower than expected income after disability, see the third paragraph of § 12-9. the second paragraph of Section 10 is replaced by the following: In the case of a change in the minimum pension level and the basic amount, the supplementary benefit shall be adjusted in line with these changes. Paragraph 10 of the present second paragraph, second sentence, becomes the new third paragraph and is replaced by the following: Deductions in the benefit under Section 6 due to old-age pension or disability benefit from social security, or other benefits directly linked to the basic amount or becoming regulated under the corresponding rules as for old-age pension from social security shall be regulated in line with the change in these benefits. Paragraph 21 second and new third paragraphs are replaced by the following: The employment and welfare seat may require a social security funder to meet in person at the single local office up to four times a year and display passports or other travel documents for the purpose of verifying the right to benefits. The Ministry may provide for measures to verify that the conditions laid down in Section 4 are fulfilled or that a social security funder has resided abroad in breach of these rules. III Entry into force. Transitional rules 1st@item: inlistbox The law will come into force from the time the King decides. The individual provisions may enter into force at different times. 2nd@item: inlistbox The law applies to claims for benefits made after the entry into force of the law. The law does not apply to the calculation of old-age pensions under the People's Rights Act Chapters 19 and 20 for persons born in 1956 or earlier and who, at the date of entry into force of the Act, have been members of the social security system for at least 20 years after the age of 16. 3rd@item: inlistbox Persons admitted to disability at the date of entry into force of the Act under the special provisions for refugees in the People's Security Act who were born in 1956 or earlier and who have been members of the population for at least 20 years after the age of 16 years shall, at the age of 67, receive an old-age pension in accordance with the special provisions for refugees in the People's Security Act. The same applies to persons admitted to retirement as a surviving spouse at the date of entry into force of the Act in accordance with the special provisions for refugees under the Law on Social Security.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e9187	It shall be counted against II. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e9201	It's votting over I and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e9211	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e9222	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e9231	In the course of the debate, a total of two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party, There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: § 11-12 Duration Clearance of work is provided for as long as it is necessary to enable the member to carry out a defined activity with a view to getting into work, see Sections 11 to 7, but not for more than three years. The period of benefit may be extended if sickness, injury or negligence are the main cause of the Member’s incapacity for work not being resolved against employment or disability; and a) the member has only started appropriate medical treatment and/or work-oriented measures after a lengthy investigation; or (b) the member has been prevented from combining medical and occupational treatment; or (c) the member needs particularly long-term follow-up, treatment, rehabilitation or job-oriented measures, and the member still has a certain opportunity to get into work. The period of benefit may also be extended if the member participates in a training measure. For the purposes of calculating the maximum period of benefit, the period during which the member has a decision on redundancy benefits under Sections 11 to 5, 11 to 14, 11 to 15 and 11 to 16 shall be taken. Other periods during which the member has a decision on redundancy benefits shall not be included in the calculation of the maximum social benefit period.» The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e9273	The result will then be 12 votes in favour and 86 votes against the proposal of the Central Party – and therefore the proposal is not accepted. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an activity reform to ensure that young people receive redundancy benefits with residual working capacity, an offer of activity, education or work.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e9989	The third paragraph of Section 11-3 of Section IV is contested. The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e10003	It shall be added to paragraphs I to III, and to paragraphs IV and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e10015	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e10029	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e10038	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Left proposal No 4, from Marianne Øren on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to clarify the effects of extending the system that allows self-employed persons to retain the right to daily allowance, from one to three years in the transition from paid work to self-employment.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e10067	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to strengthen the sick pay scheme for self-employed persons.’ The left has announced during the debate that they are withdrawing from the proposal. The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e10086	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to review social arrangements for self-employed workers and to propose any improvements and to return appropriately to Stortinget with a case.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e10129	This proposal is proposed to be sent to the Judicial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e10134	I just want to explain that the Labour Party believes that we should have a vote on whether it should be dealt with directly in the Chamber. The reason for this is that the content of this matter has been thoroughly discussed in the Committee and through lengthy negotiations between the parties which supported the reform of the Grand Duchy. A broad settlement was drawn up with a background in the negotiations. It is clearly designed, with a clear guarantee in the majority observations in the form of a promise to the inhabitants. That matter is, the government's failure to follow this promise. That is what is the basis for the proposal. This means that the Storting should be given the opportunity to give feedback to the government on what was actually the basis of the agreement. Then the different parties can express their view of it. Based on the answers given by the Minister of Justice and the police director in Stortinget and the media, there may seem to be a different perception of the content of the conciliation between the parties and the government. A committee procedure will not clarify such a different opinion beyond what is known, but it will do a plenary session. That is why, in our view, the matter does not need further clarification in a committee, and we therefore ask that voting on the matter be dealt with directly in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e10143	I will give an explanation of vote from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right. We support the presidency's position in the matter. We believe that this is the best way to deal with the proposal. It will also be fully in line with previous practice here in the Grand Duchy. Although it is late in the period and at the end of the period: there was a similar vote a year ago over a SV representative proposal on the transfer of fishing quotas. It was promoted in Stortinget on 9 June last year, the position of the Business Committee was four days later, and the debate in Stortinget took place one week after the presentation. We have time for that. We then receive regular and robust treatment in the Committee, and the matter is thus also thoroughly clarified before voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e10150	I'll be glad to make it short and say that the Center Party supports the Workers' Party's proposal to do it the way Kari Henriksen sketched.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e10155	Then the treatment becomes wetter than the treatment. Alternatively, the President’s proposal to send the case to the Judicial Committee and to the representative of Kari Henriksen to examine the case under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Storting Rules of Procedure shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e10169	Further references were made: 2nd@item: inlistbox The National Audit Office’s survey of the impact of large investments in the rail sector on the train offer (Document 3:11 [[396]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : To be sent to the Control and Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-08.ana.ud473e10178	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
