ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e179	Requests for welfare leave are made by the representative Freddy de Ruiter on 13 and 14 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and granted. The Vara representative, Line Kysnes Vennesland, is proposed to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e199	Line Kisses Vennesland is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after that date. 1–15 has been fully debated, and then combined voting following case No. 16-31 at the end of the day’s meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e223	This is a question of waiting wages and retirement benefits for former grossing-up representatives and what to deduct. So far, wages and salaries or income have had to be deducted from post-paid wages and salaries, while capital income has been excluded. However, in the autumn of 2016, the Storting adopted a new law on compensation for grossing-up representatives. In dealing with this issue, the Stortinget decided to ask the presidency to determine how capital income could be included in the system of curtailment of retirement benefits and reimbursement of the representatives — this in line with other income. The Presidency then requested the appointed Regulatory Committee to follow up this Decision and the Regulatory Committee issued its report on 29 May 2017. It is a unanimous committee which proposes rules for the deduction of capital income from retirement benefits and remuneration. The Presidency considers that the rules on curtailment of capital income, as in the case of curtailment of other income, apply to both retirement and post-employment benefits. Both benefits are intended to be a security of financial security if the representative has challenges to get into work. This consideration is not without prejudice to the fact that the representative has capital income during the period in question. The introduction of a rule on curtailment of capital income requires the establishment of detailed rules on the income considered as capital income and on the timing of the income. The Presidency, like the Regulatory Committee, proposes that the provision be designed in such a way as to reduce capital income which is to be regarded as taxable income during the performance period. The Presidency underlines that capital income exempted from taxation will not form the basis for shortening the remuneration and retirement benefits. Furthermore, only capital income paid during the performance period that will be the subject of curtailment will be included. The Presidency also considers that the principle of equal treatment between common forms of savings means that interest income should also be exempted from the curtailment rule. The Presidency will propose that this Act enter into force on 1 January 2018 and will therefore not apply to retirement benefits until the autumn of 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e240	This case illustrates, in my opinion, a problem we face when we get cases over the table directly from the presidency. Unfortunately, it is not a guarantee that the setting is unanimous, because it may indicate that you have not gone through and seen all the aspects of the case. I also have to say that it is worrying when you say that you should come back with more detailed definitions and limitations. It's just an example of the first adoption of a principle, and then one has to determine in retrospect – and almost determine the rule from the post-Traditional point of view – without the Stortinge having the opportunity to see all the implications that can lie in a proposal, which is very short here, but which can prove to be very technically difficult in reality. I do not think this is a good legislative technique, but it is also not a good democracy, because, as far as I am aware, the groups have not been given the opportunity to discuss this very large realignment and see what impact it might have on the level of representatives. So I would strongly ask the presidency to send this matter back for further investigation today at the end of the meeting. You can't be aware of this. The only thing that is, let's say, confident in the matter, is that it concerns the big ones themselves, and not ordinary people. However, it also says a little about what has been done about the effects — or unforeseen effects — of the provisions and decisions in which the law is chosen to take decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e247	I remember the last consideration of this matter in the storeroom. I also believe that Michael Tetzschner had objections. It is his privilege to object to this matter, but the Storting decided in effect unanimously to ask the presidency to contribute to the deduction of capital income, and the presidency then sent this matter to the set-up regulatory committee. That committee, as far as I know, has also been dealt with in the various party groups, and then the vote has been delivered to the presidency, and the presidency has now presented this matter, because it is a legal matter, which must therefore be dealt with today. The other parts of the position of the Regulatory Committee will be dealt with on 20 June at the Main Room, following a vote by the Presidency. I believe that if the representative Tetzschner reads the position of the Regulatory Committee, he will also see that the matter has been thoroughly investigated in this regard. I would like to stress that this is about taxable capital income, that we have tried to limit it, and that of course it is not about interest income. We believe that we have then covered up what was Storting's decision and the Storting's order for the presidency, which has then been through the Regulatory Committee. This was, of course, something that was taken in connection with the deduction of other income from retirement benefits and post-employment benefits. In order not to do this immediately, we also propose, as I said a few minutes ago, that this be applied from 1 January, and not the retirement benefit that some representatives will now receive for October, November and December.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e254	I just want to say that this case comes as it comes now. I see on my own behalf no reason why interest income should be treated differently than all the other income. In the real world, it's like this, and I think it's good, trying to collect capital income and get it settled against this. It gives rise to unfair discrimination in the event of a reduction in employee income and remuneration, but not in the case of capital income. At the same time, all of us who have worked in the field, either with a legal background or from the financial committee or elsewhere, know that the possibilities to get away from this are quite great. It's just to set up a separate company and put all of their money there, you definitely avoid all of these abbreviations. Other tax laws have good cross-sectional rules. The size does not have the tradition of having that type of intersection rule. But that underlines Michael Tetzschner's point, that if you want to go in and get a real cut-off for income earned in such a pay-as-you-go period, you should go to work thoroughly and have the goal of getting a proper cut-off. As I said, a raiser who does not want to have a curtailment for his capital income simply places all of his values in a separate company, makes sure that the income comes into that company, and then flips away any curtailment. While a retired contributor who is remunerated and who earns money through labour income, everything will be curtailed. There is an unfair discrimination, which I believe the presidency has wanted to get rid of, but it is not possible to get rid of it by the way it is now. A closer review of the legislation, to come up with more detailed rules, should be done in advance, in my opinion, so that it would have been done. I see that the intention is good, but I don't think the presidency with this law change is going to achieve what the Storting wants, namely to get a real shortening of the income of depositors who have capital income.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e263	First to the representative Nybakk, who must have misunderstood what matters I had said before. I have never said anything about the abbreviation problem. It shows exactly what confusion exists in the mind of the representative. It is true that I spoke about other matters, such as: when recording stocks that may fluctuate in time and whether or not to report company membership when investing in funds, etc. That's a completely different question. I understand from the representative Holmås that he could think of going further, but he supports – as I understand it – signed that this is not well-established. At least that's something we can agree on. In addition, I would say that this parallelization in the argument that remuneration is a kind of social assistance, a kind of help for living, leads on wild roads. That would be the same thing as saying that the previous rules were kind of a social security. It's not. It is a period of consultation, precisely because not all representatives know before the election night is over, what the future will be like. It's just to give a review period. Therefore, it is more reasonable to compare this with pay during the period of notice. It is known that you will end a job and know that there will be a date when you no longer have income or pay from your current employer. And is there anyone in this room who wants to order the employer not to pay full pay during the period of notice because you are aware that the employee also has some rental income or interest income? I will once again ask the presidency to think about it before you have to think about it again in another context of another big deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e270	I understand that there may be different opinions about the specific content of the provision. It may not be unnatural for individual representatives to have it. But I would like to be allowed to protest a little about what has been said here, about a bad procedure. This is a matter which has been dealt with by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament for more than six months. All lots have been represented in that committee. The representative of Knag Fylkesnes has sat there for SV, the representative of Ingjerd Schou has sat there for the right. All the representatives of the Regulatory Committee should feel a responsibility to inform their groups along the way, and I expect everyone to have done so. In addition, I am aware that after the work of the Regulatory Committee had been completed, it was invited to attend the various party groups. I expect that treatment has taken place. If it hasn't happened, it's unfortunate, but it can't be charged with the presidency. It is okay that there are different attitudes and different opinions, but I think that the criticism of the proceedings in this case is going a long way – and will be easy. I must also say that if we follow the reasoning further with regard to Eidsvoll Holmås’ posts, we will today risk that no rule will be adopted. It would mean that you can't deal with this until it's been a while. It would be sad considering the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, for he wants a stricter regulation. If this legislation is not strict enough, it is, after all, more extensive and more stringent than the one you have today, and it has asked the whole Stortinget to put it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e281	The representative, Michael Tetzschner, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e286	I would just like to say to the representative of Arnstad that we cannot base the transmission of cases from an inaugural body to the plenary assembly on oral handover – as it is then – in the party groups. We need to have more formal driving rules than that, which just ensures that the representatives who may not be at the group meetings, or who depend on the provision of adequate information, can get involved in the matter – in line with the issues promoted by the government that are outside, which are well known, which are in blue booklets, and which you can in good time go down to the dispatch office and get into. The informal oral handover in the lots cannot replace a proper transmission and procedure, which ensures a wide range of treatment in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e293	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e309	This has been an easy matter to be the case rapporteur for, because it is a matter that most people agree on. Those who have their own comments will themselves present their own arguments for these. The purpose of the Norwegian-Swedish Electricity Certificate Scheme is to contribute to the increased production of electricity based on renewable sources in both countries, and so has it. The agreement sets an overall renewable electricity production target in Norway and Sweden of 28,4 TWh in 2020, to be triggered by the common electricity certificate market. Other control stations have been completed and the resulting changes are good for Norway and there is reason to be satisfied with the work done. It is important that it is possible to correct for any estimation deviations faster than current practice, and it is better that the allowances are now regulated. The government shall now, at least every two years, provide for adjusted electrical certificate allowances, thereby correcting any deviations as quickly as possible, which is desirable. However, it is also important that an assessment be made in the intervening years as to whether allowances should be adjusted and that this assessment be published as soon as possible after the assessment evidence is available, in order to prevent uncertainties about allowances adjustments. The law imposes decisions on adjustments at the latest by the end of the year before the effect of the adjusted allowances on the scope of the obligation to issue an electric certificate. Determination late in the year before the start of the delivery year may cause problems for those who need knowledge of production and consumption for calculations. Power suppliers need to know the allowances in a reasonable time before the start of the delivery year. This is a problem for which understanding needs to be understood, and it is important that the best possible transparency of processes and assessments is sought, and that relevant information is published as early as practicable in order to provide market participants with predictability around allowances adjustments. The Government proposes that, as a general rule, adjustments resulting from new knowledge of the previous years be incorporated into the allowances for the following year, possibly also the following year, and that these adjustments may exceptionally be incorporated into the electricity licence allowances for up to four consecutive years. This is a good proposal that is supported. The changes resulting from the second control station are good changes and other control stations have brought about changes in the Norwegian-Swedish electricity certificate market that are important for the Norwegian energy market. We're happy with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e324	It is good that this matter comes. It has been waiting for, both by the market players and by the Stortinget. There is agreement on the core of the case, namely what is now done at the control station with the continuation and adjustment of the green certificate market from the Norwegian side. Since then, it's right to say a few things. One is that the Swedes have chosen to continue to invest in more renewable energy. Where the EU has set an ambitious target of increasing its commitment to renewable energy by 2030, from 20 pst. until 27 p.m., the Swedes have chosen to do their part of the job with this by increasing their commitment to renewable energy. Norway has chosen to go the other way, by abolishing support for new renewable energy, and by choosing to set clear targets for new renewable energy. So this is happening at a time when climate change is happening, and the Paris agreement says that everyone needs to do as much as they can to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We know that if we are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we need to replace fossil energy use with renewable energy or remove it through energy efficiency improvement. Then it's worth reminding the council of what we discussed the last time we were here and discussed renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement, namely that we've been through 170 TWh in Norway, which is fossil energy. Why the Council of State and the Government choose to say that you know what, we don't have to go on with renewable energy, when we have 170 TWh fossil energy that we have to replace if we're going to be able to achieve our goal of a low or zero-emission society, is to me completely incomprehensible. We had that debate in connection with the Energy Communication, but as long as fossil energy use exists in Norway, I will continue to insist that we need to force new renewable energy to replace fossil energy use. The Swedes are going to use the new renewable energy they're planning to expand, differently, depending on the party they're asking in Sweden. There are probably many of the parties here that have done, with their Swedish sister parties. Some want to use it to remove fossil energy, some want to use it to eliminate nuclear power – different goals, good ones both. But it's not like that we're an oil country, that means we don't have to do our part of the job to phase out oil and gas as quickly as possible – although it seems like it's the government's strategy and government's strategy. So since the government took over, we've been cutting support for renewable energy. We have cut support for renewable energy in developing countries. We have no new Norwegian targets for how much renewable energy we will have by 2030. We have had the training of Stortingen's decision on 10 TWh oaks in barley. We've had cut off the offshore wind bet to Statkraft. So we've had several positive decisions on renewable energy and offshore wind from Stortinget, but in reality, the government and the cooperation parties have chosen to cut off the largest Norwegian offshore wind environment, in State power, with hundreds of people. So all of this happens at a time when we need to bet more to cut greenhouse gas emissions. I am therefore promoting the proposal that has been raised by us and the Greens/Greens/EFA. We believe that in good time before this el-certificate system disappears, or the Norwegian part and the contribution into it, we need to put in place a new renewable energy support system, to ensure that we both contribute to technology development and contribute to commercialisation and production of new renewable energy. I could only at the tamp imagine asking one essential question before the Council of State takes the floor. The EU has decided to have 27 pst. renewable energy by 2030. This is not broken down into national targets, but there is a debate going on within the EU where different countries believe different things about this. It would have been interesting for me and for Stortinget to get information about two things from the Council of State. One is, what role do we play in such a statement? Are we Norwegian drivers for each country to make clear commitments? Is it driven by the fact that, by 2030, there will be clear control stations for renewable energy deployment along the way, so that additional efforts will be made by countries and additional instruments to achieve the targets? Or is Norway’s role that this should only be scouring and walking, and it should be up to each country to what extent it wants to carry this out? That's the one. The second is: what is Norway's ambition, what is the government and the government's ambition, for how much renewable energy we are going to produce in 2030 to ensure that the EU achieves the renewable energy targets that Norway wants to support?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e343	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e348	As the rapporteur has explained, since 2012, Norway and Sweden have had a single market for electricity certificates. The system has served as an aid scheme for the development of new renewable energy production. We are well on track to achieve the common goal of 28.4 TWh as renewable power generation in Norway and Sweden as a result of this scheme in 2020. So far, as of April of this year, 18.3 TWh has been built up in connection with this scheme. About two thirds of this is wind power. For the time being, Sweden has had the biggest contribution to what has been built out, but Norway is coming well, albeit a little late. There are many projects under development now, which will be operational by 2021, and investment decisions have been made on a number of other projects that also have the potential to achieve targets by 2021. So the goal for Norway, the original goal of 13.2 TWh, is the great probability that we can reach. When Stortinget addressed the energy message in the summer of 2016, it became clear that a large majority in this room would not set new targets for the electricity certification system after 2020. To the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, who then addressed this issue, I stress that there was a broad political consensus in the Stortinget about not setting new goals. The bottom line is that in Norway we have a surplus of renewable energy in production compared to consumption. To take the results of 2016 specifically, we had a production of 148 TWh and a consumption of 132 TWh, i.e. a profit of 16 TWh. In addition, the forecasts for the coming years are that there will still be a surplus in the Norwegian market. It provides the basis for the phase-in of new consumption both in the transport sector and in new industries, e.g. data storage centre, which has a high potential in Norway. The fact that we have not set new targets in Norway does not make any difference in this matter. What we're seeing now is Sweden has set a new target of 18 TWh towards 2030. From my point of view, it has been important to create a predictable framework for our Norwegian power producers, our Norwegian builders in both hydropower and wind power, in this system. Especially this was important in winter, when we had a demanding price picture for electric certificates. The main framework for this market is set out in the original agreement between Norway and Sweden on a single market for electricity certificates. However, on 5 May this year, a new change agreement was signed with Sweden, which we on the part of the government took a lot of time to arrive at, which assumes that Sweden has set a new target and will continue with 18 TWh towards 2030, so we will end by 2021. I am very happy that we came to an agreement with Sweden. It ensures predictable framework conditions for Norwegian builders. This is a district industry with many large and small builders in both wind and hydropower, and it is often landowners in the primary industry, farmers, who are involved in the development projects. The new agreement is good for Norway. It allows us to finance all new projects that will be completed by the end of 2021 in this common electricity licence market. This means that we can also go beyond the original 13.2 TWh that was the goal for Norway. This means, in practice, that we can get into a situation – if we have a large expansion in Norway in the coming years – which means that Swedish consumers are involved and pay for investment in new Norwegian wind and hydropower development. This has received a very positive response in the industry, in the renewable market. Both the Small Powers Association and the Wind Powers Association have given the new agreement diced six. So to the concrete proposal that is now on the table, linked to the other control station. The rapporteur has explained the main elements, so I am not going to repeat it, but would stress that there is an important change here, in the sense that the bill now proposes that the Ministry be allowed to set the allowances in regulation, and that the law specifies the key principles on which to determine and subsequently change the allowances in this regulation. A similar legislative amendment is being discussed in the Swedish Parliament, so that we now have equivalent systems on both sides of the border. That amendment will simplify the administrative process of adjusting the electricity licence allowances in line with the framework provided by Stortingen in this case. It gives market players good and necessary predictability. I note with satisfaction that the Committee today adheres to these principles, so that we can achieve the best possible, and the most efficient, market for the electricity certification system in the period to which this applies, until 2035, for Norwegian consumers and Norwegian water and wind generators.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e371	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e376	I did not feel that the Council of State took the challenge and answered my questions clearly. I want to start by pointing out one thing that I think is a deficiency in his articles and his reasoning. When people in the power industry – or for that matter the State Council itself – talk about a renewable surplus in Norwegian oil, they talk about the electricity market. In the energy market, there is a dwindling renewable deficit by using more than 170 fossil TWh. Prior to the energy notification, a total mass asked for the submission of a fossil energy phase-out plan. We never got that plan. Instead, we were told that there was too much renewable energy available in the market. But back to what was my main question, and as I felt I was not answered. That was the role we play in the further formulation of renewable policies for the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e383	I have great respect for the Storting, in the sense that we should deal with the matters that are being dealt with. The representative Eidsvoll Holmås asks some questions that go far beyond what this matter concerns, but I will answer them when they are now being taken up in a reply. In terms of the EU renewable share target, 27 pst is quite correct. in 2030. There is a process linked to individual countries, and it must be up to them to set their targets. We are concerned that there should be a follow-up and control stations along the way that show that these objectives are being achieved, and that is what we are contributing to the EU system. In the case of Norway, we have on the electricity side 100 pst. renewable energy. So it's true that we also consume fossil energy sources in other parts of society. We have to. It is not possible to transform this from fossil to renewable at the pace that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås and SV want. We're going to set ambitious targets, and we're going to get back to that in the climate statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e392	If the Council of State actually intended to use renewable energy to replace fossil fuels, he would have already, first of all, made sure to explore the possibilities available to replace fossil energy use today with renewable energy. The Environment Directorate has done a part of that job. They point to a number of places, the transport sector is obviously one of them. There is enough to remind the Council of State that at the latest two weeks ago, government parties voted against a plan to escalate electric cars and zero-emission cars until 2025. But the majority of the population went into it. But Melkøya, Kårstø and elsewhere are ready to be electrified if you want to start a process to do that. I hear the Council of State says that the government is coming back in the climate communication with a renewable target, so I get to wait in excitement for it, but I would like to have the Council's response to exactly what is about places that are ready to be electrified.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e399	The commitment of SV and the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to increase the renewable share of Norwegian energy consumption is great, but there must be some economic principles at the bottom. They look away from them in many cases, obviously also in this case. We are concerned by the government that there will be socio-economical projects in which to invest. Sometimes a public contribution is needed to subsidise a transitional system, as we do in a number of projects related to Enova to increase the renewable share of our energy use. But there has to be profitability at the bottom. Socio-economic profitability is important, otherwise we don't use taxpayers' money properly. We have to take total responsibility, we can't just set ourselves goals that are completely unrealistic, as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås does when he says that you're ready on a number of major projects. Yes, if you had spent a lot of tax money on this, it would have been possible, but we have to have socio-economic profitability at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e404	The left is very much for us to have a common renewable target with the EU, which is 27 pst. But to achieve this goal, we need to use the forces to reduce our own emissions first; we also need to be willing to use a lot of resources at this time. At the same time, this transitional system and the fact that you do not go ahead with the green certificates should not ignore the fact that we are going to have new renewable energy in Norway. It is still to be added that we are to have profitable, new renewable energy. It's not like that either – it's my question – that if we now adopt this case, there are some limitations on the possibility of providing support to immature technology, such as sea wind, tides, wave power, and getting back to it in decisions about the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e410	Of course, when it comes to the last question, you're open to it. The size and government can at any time make concrete proposals relating to subsidies towards the increased use of renewable energy. The reality is that today we have a mechanism through Enova, which helps to develop new technologies and increase the renewable share in the energy mix. That's what's the whole business of Enova. A gradual change in the market will be introduced to bring about the emergence of new technologies in the market, making this a profitable business in the future. There is a lot of exciting happening in the transport sector, which is important. There are similar opportunities in the construction industry, and this will be further worked on, and it's used well and well 2 billion. kr from Enova to contribute to this market change, which will over time increase the renewable share of Norwegian energy consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e419	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e435	From time to time, the Energy and Environment Committee is visited by parliamentarians from other countries. There are some questions that remain in all these meetings: how have you managed to get as much out of the energy resources that Norway has? How have you managed to keep control? How have you been able to ensure that the energy resources benefit the entire people? The answer to this is that we have a concession law that aims to secure precisely these conditions. On 23 July 1909, the predecessor of today's industrial concession law, the acquisition law, was adopted in Stortinget after 13 full days of debate. The importance of hydropower for industrialisation was thoroughly discussed. The right to return was crushed. The public interest should be safeguarded. The workers who built a power plant were to be protected. Landowners and municipalities were to be compensated for interference and the interests of the State were to be safeguarded. The representatives were deliberately the importance of hydropower for future industrial development. Left-man Kristian Friis Petersen said it like this: "... there is every reason to believe that the development which is taking place in this respect will, in the course of not so many years, have completely changed all industry, and it will have created a number of industries in places where they were not before; it will completely recalibrate industry and the life-style of the workers' people." In 1917, the law was finalized by the industrial concession law and the watercourse regulation law of 1917. So it is a law over 100 years old that we are now updating with regard to form and language themes. It is a law that has served us well. Our hydropower resources have provided a basis for industrial travel across the country. The value creation has benefited the public, and it is undeniable that these resources belong to the community and are to be disposed of for the benefit of the community. When it became apparent in the 1960s that we as a nation also had large oil and gas resources on the base, a law was drafted for this sector, which was largely passed on to the industry concession law. The resources belong to the community, they are to be exploited for the benefit of the community and benefit the whole country. There's been a lot of water going through the turbines since 1909 and 1917. Our country has changed. New issues have emerged on the agenda. Old issues have become irrelevant. The law has been amended to capture developments, as appropriate. The principles of disagreement in 1909 have become largely political joint ownership. Hydropower is the backbone of our renewable power system and as such will have a major impact on the development of Norway as a future zero-emission society. It is therefore important that we always have an up-to-date law that governs the development of this sector in the direction we want. Although the main principles are underpinned, there will also be political disagreements for the future about how these principles are to be practised and new issues that need to be regulated. The proposition we are dealing with today is intended to simplify and update the law by editing and updating the legal texts in a language. The intention is not to change the legal state or to make material changes. This has been the basis of the Committee's unanimous support for the amendments proposed. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e456	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e472	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e481	As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the entire Committee for contributing to a good and orderly attitude, where it is easy to relate to the positions of the various parties. The starting point for today's debate is Prop. 110 L for 2016-2017, which deals with changes to the Planning and Building Act and the Matrikkel Act. This is the most recent of many changes made by the government that will simplify procedures for municipalities and contribute to more efficient planning processes. I was going to go through some of the changes and how the different parties have made comments and suggestions. There is broad agreement on a new provision to introduce infrastructure measurement and documentation requirements in the ground. It is important that both planners and developers have easy access to this information, while recognising the need of individual owners to protect some of their information. The majority of hearing bodies also recommended such a requirement. The type of wiring and other infrastructure to be registered is of a more technical nature and is to be laid down in the Regulation. There is also broad support to introduce a mandatory requirement for regional planning forums by changing the law from ‘should’ to ‘shell’. The centre party and SV have some additional suggestions about who should be invited, and whether the meetings should be open. Relevant zones were included in the Law on Planning and Building as a separate concept in 2008. The proposal proposes to include a new area of consideration for the preservation of mineral resources for possible future value creation, supported by a majority in the Committee. The proposal to introduce a time-limited change of use as a new measure is underpinned by an overall committee. The amendment of the wording of the Planning and Building Act from the Ministry to ‘give’ regulations concerning the measures exempted from the requirement of responsible undertakings and the obligation to apply to the Ministry to ‘give’ such regulations is supported by the Government Parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left. A clarification that the deadline for the framework authorisation shall be 12 weeks, while the period for the amendment of the authorisation, including the framework authorisation, shall be three weeks, supported by all except SV and the Green Party on the Environment. There are several proposals an overall committee is behind, and on which I will not spend more time in this post. There is some disagreement about amendments on impact assessments, which I will briefly explain. As a follow-up to an EU directive, penalties are now in place for breaches of the rules on impact assessments. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have an amendment to the legislative text which states that the breach must be grossly negligent and not only negligent. The Labour Party, SV and the Green Party oppose the proposal to simplify the rules on impact assessment requirements by shifting the provision from law to regulation. The size has previously decided to require impact assessments for peat take-offs below 2 million. cubicle or for ants less than 1500 Dec. This is followed up in the proposition by the reduction from 1500 to 200 Decars of the limit of time at which peat harvesting is always to be carried out. The centre party here has its own proposal to lower the limit to 800 dean. Then I have been through most of the proposals and can well establish that there is a broad consensus on the main purpose behind the proposition, namely to facilitate more efficient planning processes and easier procedures for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e506	I can agree with most of what the rapporteur said, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work that has been done. I'm not going to make the post very far – just briefly admit that the Workers' Party is also very pleased that there is a broad consensus on simplification and more efficient planning processes, but where simplification can have unforeseen effects on the individual, or where simplification may seem inappropriate, we are opposed to the proposals that exist. On that basis, the Workers' Party will vote against Roman Numeral Decision I, the amendments to § 12-2, § 12-3, § 20-4 and § 20-5. Otherwise, I can agree with what the rapporteur has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e513	For this matter, the Christian People's Party has a brief comment. The matter is essentially about simplification and more predictable planning processes. An example of this is to introduce time-limited change of use as a new option, and I am pleased that the Committee together supports this. As a consequence of the municipal reform, we may see more than in the past that properties can extend across a municipal border. The bill clears up and proposes that new land should be created without an application or procedure if the property remains in two municipalities after changing the boundaries. That's good. In addition, we want a regime to ensure that a owner of such a property who wishes to implement an applicant action is not to promote two separate applications and pay two separate fees in both municipalities. We are pleased that the rules on peat removal are now being followed up in the law. Ants are very important biological and as a flood-regulating area, and the Christian People's Party is pleased that the limit of when tortoises are to be impact-examined is strongly lowered to 200 dekars. Finally, I am promoting the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e528	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e533	The attitude shows that a Joint Committee is committed to achieving more efficient and simpler planning processes and that there is a strong consensus on this. Nevertheless, the Central Party has some points where we have a different view from the majority, and I will briefly comment on some of those points. One applies to regional planning forums. While it is a strength for planning work that a regional planning forum captures as much as possible the conflicts of interest early in a current planning process, since many of the premises are also put early in the process, it is essential for the legitimacy of the plan to invite interested parties, and we therefore propose that important stakeholders be invited. We believe that these meetings should be open, both to the media and to the public, and we propose this. It is in the public interest to get to know the discussions in that type of regional planning forum. The centre party will vote against the proposal to include mineral resources as consideration zone in § 11-8 of the third paragraph of point (c) of the Planning and Building Act. As an instrument, consideration zones can be problematic, as they are linked to a certain degree of uncertainty in scope and legal significance. For example, while the effects of a take-up zone are valid until it is modified or removed by the revision of the area part of the municipal plan, the effects are: binding subject to a time limit of four years, and the proposal for taking account zones, which we now have before us, appears in practice to be a kind of bonding without a time limit, and that will be opposed by the Centre Party. In the case of impact investigations and infringement fees, § 32-8a, we have, together with the Christian People's Party, promoted another proposal. It is because we believe that the Impact Assessment Code is so difficult to obtain and is also characterised by so many discretionary considerations that this type of sanction should first be addressed by gross negligence. Having said that, I would like to make it clear that we support the opinion that the fee must be of such a size that it seems deterrent and therefore also preventive. Finally, there is the issue of impact assessment on peat extraction. A powerful ant today must be about 600-800 covers, and if the KU limits are lowered to 200, this could have a major impact on the peat industry, as almost all new measures need to be assessed. It is also going to have an impact on costs, and it is important to bear in mind that there are quite high start-up costs to open up a moor. Then there is someone who will say that we will gradually ban peat extraction, and it is true that a decision has been made to assess the phasing out of Norwegian peat production. There is an assessment to be made by the Environment Directorate, and the decision that the majority here in this Chamber seems to be taking place today will prejudge the discussions we would need when the Environment DG has made its professional assessment and job in this matter. That's what the Center Party thinks is unfortunate. With this, I address the suggestions that the Central Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e550	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e555	I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough review. I just have a few short comments. The first is that the Left and myself of course are well pleased that we are now following up the Document 8 proposal that I presented with Pál Farstad, Terje Breivik and Abid Q. Raja, on a more holistic and long-term management of ants. One of the decisions Stortinget made was just to see if we should extend the requirement for impact assessment to include peat removal under 1500 dekar. Now when this is added to 200 pieces, I think it's a good limit. Limiting the use of peat is, after all, an important climate action, and the preservation of bogs is important for the preservation of biodiversity. There are also many other positive consequences, including: with regard to managing increased rainfall and other things. So we're happy with this. Otherwise, we will also vote to give the municipalities the opportunity to bond and care for mineral occurrence zones. So it's just about giving municipal freedom. Municipalities can decide for themselves if they do this, but the possibility is there. Further decisions on whether to withdraw mineral deposits are, of course, decisions that need to be taken later, but that a consideration zone can be used and that it is an extension of municipal autonomy, we support. So to the issue of impact assessments, and whether to simplify it so as not to require an impact assessment if a decision is taken that is not consistent with the overall plan. On the left hand side, we support this, because we believe that this is a simplification. The overall plan is, after all, the municipality's own plan, and if you want to change it, I do not believe that there is a requirement for impact assessment that ties on whether a municipality will make changes to its own claim. I think this is a flexibility that's right to have. Should the State Council make a simplification that will be of greater importance, it is to make a change and perhaps correct one of the major errors in the Planning and Building Act as it now exists, namely the requirement for legally binding municipal plan. Legally binding municipality plan and its possibility is important in many municipalities. For part of the largest municipalities, e.g. Here in Oslo, which I represent, it has given rise to considerable problems. It's really a requirement that you get a procedure where there's no benefits, you can really just make mistakes, and there's a big problem with fixing these after, as you can see here in the city, whether it's at Smestad, at the bottom of the trench, or somewhere else. So going back and giving municipalities the opportunity to have strategic municipal plans also on the area part would have been a significant simplification and would have given them better political governance of urban development, especially in the larger cities. But we will support this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e566	The rapporteur has given a good report. Marit Arnstad has explained why we think it is important to make sure to open up and strengthen what is about representation in the plan forum. The Labour Party has addressed some of the issues in which there has been a debate and where there are various comments within the Committee. I thought I'd talk a little bit about ants. It is very good that the government is now following up, and the Storting is making sure to punish, the work that has been accomplished over the period, too slowly, but surely to ensure that we use ants to a lesser extent than before. I think we should just think about this a little bit: every year we spend three billion dollars. SEK in, among others to prevent the excavating and dredging of ants in Indonesia, while in Norway there are significant outcrops of ants each year. The greenhouse gas emissions from the anthills in Norway are high, but it is the use of ants in Indonesia and Malaysia that dries them and uses them for palm oil production, which creates the large CO 2 emissions, which have previously had a fresh debate on palm oil here in Stortinget. But it's just as if mycetic laying abroad and mycetic laying in Norway are two completely different things. In fact, there are two different places on the globe, but the impacts on climate and the environment and biodiversity are the same – although, of course, biodiversity is different in Malaysia than it is in Norway. That's why I think it's good that we're getting the tightening that's right here. At the same time, I have a question to the Council of State, because this is a typical example of the sectored state. It is the Environment Directorate that is investigating the ban. It is the Council of State that is responsible for the legislation of the Law on Planning and Building, and it is the Ministry of Finance that is responsible for the possible charging of peat. Norwegian peat producers have been in consultation with the committee and said that dear committee, we understand that you are critical for the use of peat – that is what we have been given – in the plantation and in other garden centres. But – they say, and there I think they have a good point – it can't be that, by gradually using smaller Norwegian ants, we just replace this ant with foreign ants; then, after all, we haven't achieved anything for the climate on the globe. I think that's a good point. That is why I want to challenge the Council of State, which I know has a background as an active adherent – and opponent – of taxes and taxes, and ask him if he will follow up. Now that he is making this tightening up on the ant side and is aware of the further debates to be held, of the role of myra in Norway and whether or not to ban, can he also make sure to think completely about this? If these steps are now taken to make Norwegian peat less available on the Norwegian market, does he ensure that it is not only replaced by foreign peat, but that there is also a holistic approach to this by, for example, imposing a levy on high-thorness crops? That's the one. The second debate that has taken place is the one on mineral extraction. I belong to those who are critical of attaching large areas to mineral extraction and have been critical of the changes made. But otherwise, when it comes to what happens on ants, part of it is good. So there's some disagreement that different parties have explained to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e584	I would like to start by thanking the Energy and Environment Committee for a quick and positive treatment. The approach shows that there is broad agreement on several legislative changes to ensure effective planning processes and to facilitate procedures. We want living cities that are good to live in, and living districts. But society is changing, and then the law must make it possible to adapt to new times. Flexible rules are therefore important and it is gratifying that time-limited changes in the use of barley have now been permitted. This means, for example: empty store premises may be used for other purposes for a period of time, as long as this is within the framework of existing municipal plans and the rules of the Planning and Building Act. For business, predictable and efficient planning and construction processes are important so that businesses can spend the least possible resources on bureaucracy and more time on value creation. There is a need for more solution-oriented planning processes, where the parties agree early on on on the goal and how to get there and that all actors involved actively contribute in the same direction. I am therefore pleased that the Storting will now adopt legislative changes to make the Regional Plan Forum a statutory task for all regions of the country. The clarification of the legislation on time limits for the amendment of building applications and the proposed clarification of the rules on infringement fees and regulatory homes also contribute to more efficient planning processes. The same applies to the clarification of the rules that flood clearance must be ensured in a construction project. It is a challenge to get a good and reliable overview of the lines in the ground for all those planning construction projects and all those involved in digging. This delays and creates unnecessary surprises in projects. It is therefore gratifying that there is an end to the proposal on requirements for the documentation of lines and infrastructure in the ground. The legislative changes will speed up the completion of projects, facilitate the coordination of excavation and reduce damage to existing pipelines and other infrastructure in the ground. Current legislation on impact assessments needs to be amended in the light of the revised EU Environmental Impact Assessment Directive. This revised Directive intends to clarify, update and tighten up provisions on impact assessments. This Directive requires changes to the provisions of the Planning and Building Act relating to the charge for infringements and penalties. At the same time, legislation on impact assessments is being put in place to simplify and make it more flexible. The Government aims to implement legislation on impact assessments under the Planning and Building Act at the same time as the legislative amendments enter into force. Let me just briefly also comment on a few questions that have arisen in the debate. One is related to who is to be invited to the Regional Plan Forum and to the issue of transparency. We don't want to delineate who's going to be in the Regional Plan Forum. We believe that this is a question that should be considered locally, based on the questions to be addressed. I also agree that the issue of transparency is important, but we do not believe that the Planning and Building Act is the right place to address this issue. There are questions that belong more to the municipal law, which will be dealt with later in Stortinget. I also agree with the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, who points out that the issue of peat extraction is an example of the sectored state. Here are the different departments that have a partial responsibility. At the same time, this is also an example of the sectored state being able to coordinate itself, precisely by following up on what has been the wish of the Stortinge in this matter. I can assure you that we think completely, and that there is good coordination between the departments. So the representative knows that I can't pre-shoot the tool use, but I'm taking with me the input that comes from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e602	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 5 and 6 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e633	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e642	I Prop. 109 L for 2016-2017, the Government proposes to introduce a registration and supervision system for the sale of tobacco products and tobacco surrogates and to amend the Radiation Protection Act and the Health Protection Act. The main objective of the amendments to the Tobacco Injury Act is to prevent the sale of tobacco products to minors under the age of 18. The registration shall give an overview of the points of sale which are to be supervised. The government assumes that parts of the supervision can be coordinated with local authorities' control of sales and donations under the alcohol law. Very many of those who start smoking and sniffing start before they are 17 years old. Studies show that the age limit is slightly observed at outlets in Norway even today. An article from 2010 by researchers at the Swedish Institute of Public Health shows that still buys almost 45 pst. by tobacco users under 18 years of age, they sell their tobacco products. Therefore, an overall committee supports the introduction of measures to improve control and control compliance with the age limit for the sale of tobacco products and e-cigarettes. It is agreed that there is a need for a registration system for the sale of tobacco products, that it is important to ensure that tobacco products are not sold to minors, and that there must be clear responses to crime. The red-green government, the Stoltenberg II government, presented Prop in 2012. 55 L for 2012–2013, proposing the introduction of an authorisation scheme for the sale of tobacco products, a proposal adopted by the Stortinget. A literature review in advance showed that an authorisation scheme for the sale of tobacco appeared as an appropriate and effective tool to reduce the availability and, consequently, use of tobacco among minors. The Labour Party will show that the Medical Association regrets that the Ministry of Health and Welfare does not go ahead with the previously proposed system of appropriations in front of a system of registers and supervision. The association has pointed out on a number of occasions that the potential for control is much greater than what is foreseen, and the association regrets that this potential is not being exploited through regulatory regulation. We agree with the Medical Association's objection, whether we support the proposal in the proposal for a registration system. A little about Staten Radiation Protection, which was a seagoing establishment until 1 January 2016. At that time, health management was streamlined, and Straw livery was organised as an establishment in the Health Directorate. No legal assessment of the reorganisation was carried out at the time; it did not come until the autumn of 2016. The Labour Party questions whether or not the reorganisation was properly investigated or anchored, as the review showed that it was difficult to reconcile the full integration of Straw Delivery with international obligations. That is why the proposal to restore the State's radiation protection as a maritime body is now being transformed and ensures that it is reflected in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e655	Here we quickly handle two things at express speed – and 3 minutes of speaking time is everything you get. Therefore first: darts in the park. This is not the most important thing in the world, but a proposal from the Progress Party that people who enjoy a beer or a glass of wine in a park around – perhaps preferably in the larger cities of the country – should not be lawbreakers, which they are actually at present, according to Section 8-9 of the first paragraph of the Alcohol Act. 5th@item: inlistbox Many who apply to park facilities are students, lonely people and people who have relatively limited purchasing power. They do not have a living room with a balcony, terrace or patio. They can't afford to visit the outdoors along Karl Johan or on Aker Brugge, but they would like to enjoy the Norwegian summer – if it reports its arrival. They want fellowship with friends and acquaintances, and they rarely disturb peace and order. The Oslo police describe drinking in parks as a modest problem, and if anyone is to be visibly intoxicated or unappreciative, local police regulations and reactions in the penal code are to be relied on. The party of progress does not believe that such a change in legislation will lead many more people to consume much more alcohol than is already being done in parks today. The proposal is being voted down – and the Progress Party must accept it. But it doesn't prevent me from thinking it's strange that the majority in the legislative assembly don't have such faith that adults individuals can drink a beer or a glass of wine in the park if it's legal, when they're doing it fine today – when it's actually illegal. Secondly, the registration and supervision system for tobacco products: it is good that the system being introduced is significantly less extensive, bureaucratic and cost-intensive than the red-green government’s allocation system – adopted in the Stortinget in 2013, but not implemented by today’s government. That being said, the Progress Party generally has little faith that restrictions, increased control and more bureaucracy are the way to prevent Norwegian consumers from obtaining legal goods for their own consumption. The challenge of people under 18 years of age getting tobacco products is always present, but the illicit smuggling market is a greater challenge than kiosks, gas stations and shops in this respect. It is clear from the Progress Party that the fees that would necessarily have to be accompanied by such a registration and supervision system should be as low as possible and should be limited as far as possible to the financing of the operation of the scheme. I bring this up with the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e676	The representative Morten Wold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e681	The Christian People's Party will vote for the government's proposals for changes in Prop. 109 L for 2016-2017, and we will vote against the proposal from the Progress Party on changes to the Alcohol Act. The Christian People's Party is for measures that make fewer young people start with tobacco. That is why we voted in favour of the appropriations scheme in spring 2013. A decision was made that we believe should have been implemented. The most effective instruments should be used to prevent smoking among minors. However, we are voting for the proposition today, and then we will follow developments carefully to see if this scheme works as intended, because smoke is one of the greatest health challenges we have, and young people should not start smoking. There is a lot that could have been said about the proposal to amend the alcohol law. The most important thing I want to point out is the need for non-alcoholic zones in our country and for children and young people. There's no more exposure to our kids' alcohol wants and needs — on the contrary. That is why we are pleased that the majority of people do not adopt this proposal. No, there is not one glass of wine in the delicious summer weather, as described in the proposal, which is the challenge. Once again, we come back to what is at the heart of the alcohol policy of the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party believes that there are positive and necessary limits for all of us, for the sake of a few. It is a principle of solidarity for our part, and we believe that it provides a better society, not least for children and young people, who today really do not need more alcohol around them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e692	I'm going to use my short speaking time to explain what reasons it is that the Right does not support the proposals of the Progress Party, which they themselves believe is not the most important thing in the world, i.e. pils in the park. Firstly, together with the Progress Party, we have a government platform and a cooperation agreement for the current ageing period that has indicated that the main lines of Norwegian alcohol policy should be fixed. Some would argue that some alcohol in the park on a hot summer day does not rock these main lines, but a general derogation from the ban on alcohol, which applies to the whole country, could probably be considered a major change in the system of the alcohol law. Secondly, our March national meeting decided that we should work in the next growing-up period to allow just darts in the park. Pils rarely have an alcohol percentage up to 22 % by volume, and as a result, the proposal of the representatives of the Progressive Party goes significantly further than the one adopted by the Right National Assembly. Thirdly, we have a relatively strict alcohol policy in Norway, which may also help us to have one of the lowest consumption of alcoholic beverages in Europe. For health politicians in our committee, it is a ranking to be proud of. But it is also important that our alcohol policy instruments continue to be challenged by ESA. It is important that we in Norway manage our alcohol policy so that we do not weaken our credibility with ESA and the EFTA Court. These three reasons have different weights and characteristics, but are nevertheless important for us in the Right to take into account if one is to adopt changes in this area of law. We are not initially reluctant to look at some of the questions raised by the Progress Party in this matter, but we are concerned that any legislative changes should be made correctly, and that they do not have unintended consequences. This matter needs to be investigated and consulted because it raises many practical questions — for example: on what a park is — and legal and resource challenges. Therefore, the right does not now support the proposal for a rapid legislative change without prior investigation and consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e705	As far as tobacco legislation is concerned, the Left Government supports the regulation proposal. We are pleased that we have effective regulation and use minimal resources on it. So to the proposals of the Advance Party on alcohol in the park, on which I want to spend my speaking time. The left is a trailer of opening to allow the consumption of beer and wine carried in parks and beaches. But our model means that we have to have a regulation of this, and that it has to be added to the municipalities. We cannot allow a free drop of alcohol in parks and in other public places, such as squares or beaches. Among other things, it is about being able to secure non-alcoholic zones, and times in the day also, which take into account special areas where children and families live a lot. Not all parks are suitable for drinking alcohol. The left will therefore encourage the government to carry out an investigation into how to facilitate access for local authorities to regulate park areas where drinking alcohol may be permitted. We suggest starting with an investigation and some trials, with a view to opening up alcohol in group 1, i.e. up to 4.7 pst. strength, in practice so-called pils in the park. The left considers it possible to make adjustments and revisions to Section 4 of the Alcohol Act on municipal donations, and to Section 8-9, prohibitions on food and drink, where parks are mentioned in paragraph 5 – to grant a type of grant related to this purpose and also a grant linked to a person, an establishment or a body responsible for the area during the period of the grant. In the case of pils in the park, it also has some practical and not least environmental aspects. Beer up to 4.7 pst. volume is currently on pawn-packaging. It reduces the potential for silage and reduces the risk of broken glass and bottles. So you should start with it and try, because there's a lot of reasons to relate to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e716	Smoking remains the main single cause of disease and premature death in Norway. The majority of those who smoke and sniff start before they're 18, so I think it's absolutely vital that we prevent new generations from starting to use tobacco. It is therefore gratifying that the Storting will today adopt the proposal to introduce a system of registration and supervision for the sale of tobacco products and tobacco surrogates, including e-cigarettes. I am concerned that the system does not become too bureaucratic and comprehensive. By abandoning the adopted, but not implemented, authorisation system, both the supervisory authorities and the industry will have significantly less work and expenditure, not least because there will be no application and approval process and associated police certification and other documentation requirements. For municipalities too, further work will be significantly reduced by not assessing, granting or refusing applications. Through this scheme, all sales in Norway will be recorded, and it will be possible to respond to offences. Care will be taken to ensure that the sales links comply with the age limit, the prohibition of presentation and the advertising ban. Although the directorate has previously had the opportunity to oversee, for example: The ban on advertising will now be a systematic local supervision of the sale. In alcohol policy, we need to balance the need to protect third parties from the interests of freedom of persons. Alcohol causes heavy alcohol damage to both the individual and society, and it is obvious that alcohol must be a regulated product. The main lines of the alcohol policy are fixed. If one is to change the policy at the point raised by the representative proposal, a number of questions should be addressed. First of all, does the concept of park provide the best boundaries? How do we define a park? Should it always be allowed to drink in parks, or should the municipalities be able to decide for themselves? Are certain events or days to be exempted? Do you want it to be drunk in parks on May 17? How should rules be designed to balance the consideration of families with children who want a day in the park without having to deal with alcohol, with the consideration of some who want to enjoy alcohol in a park? Secondly, the proposers wish to limit the drinking of alcohol to beverages containing less than 22 % by volume of alcohol. Is this a good delimitation? The proposal does not contain any arguments either for or against this particular restriction. I believe that benefits and disadvantages need to be identified in this area. The third point is that there is a need to investigate the relationship between rules of order and control and resource challenges for the police. Drinking alcohol legally in a public place would have to be limited politically and legally to conduct contrary to the rules on order and order. In the wake of a discussion of legal and illegal drinking interfaces, further questions related to the police framework and priorities will also have to be asked. My conclusion is that I would advise against a legislative amendment that allows the consumption of alcohol in the park, without a detailed investigation and without a thorough examination of the consequences before considering any regulation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e735	«This weekend thousands of criminals were loose in Norway's parks. They sat in the park and drank a beer or took a glass of wine. Today, this is forbidden. It must come to an end," said Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, then the Young Right Leader of VG Nett on May 3, 2007, and he continued: «The law prohibiting alcohol in parks is a sleeping and old-fashioned law that stamps common people as criminals. When people are most lawbreakers, it's the law and not people there's something wrong with." I could have actually finished my post here, because the Red Isaac sums up this matter in an excellent way. That's exactly what this is all about. When you hear a part of the posts today, and those who have been held or written in the social debate in the last few months, you would think that this was a completely new and almost inexplicable situation that has arisen in Norwegian parks. I can cancel that. This has been going on for decades and will continue for decades to come, regardless of what the Storting had to think today or in the future – in Frogner Park in Oslo, in the Nordnespark in Bergen and at the Marinen in Trondheim, and I should not be surprised if it happens in the hometown of the Minister of Health. The reason why it so often never gets attention in the media, except when some of us propose the matter, is that it goes incredibly well. It works, just like that. People actually manage to get a beer or a glass of wine without causing nausea, without children being disturbed, and without disturbing the general peace and order. You can always say that this goes so well before, why should you start messing with it when it works in practice? Well, that's because this is a more interesting question in principle than just practical. Are all those who otherwise act as law-abiding citizens, by definition, to become criminals because they enjoy alcohol without being at the expense of one of their fellow citizens? I mean no. This proposal is not about a release. It's about a controlled decoration, an embellishment that's an adaptation to practice and what realities are today. The representative, Olaug V. Bollestad, said to the evening post on 10 April that ‘in principle, it is tempting to be able to drink a cold beer in a sun-warm park’. Never before has she been closer to being an honorary member of the Advancement Party, but she continued: ‘When we’re critical, it’s because we think there should be some open spaces that are non-alcoholic.’ I agree with all of this, but I don't think people in piles will pull to the parks to drink cheating. In addition, the proposal applies to all parks, not all other open spaces which are non-alcoholic.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e758	We are discussing two legislative proposals – a proposal from the government and a proposal from one of the government parties. It's kind of a special situation. When there is a change in the tobacco law, which is caused by a collective government, the Centre Party will support that proposal. We were disappointed when the new government in 2013 put the proposal for a grant scheme in a drawer and nothing happened in four years. In this way, this law would have come a long time before. We support the proposal on the registration and supervision system for the sale of tobacco products. The most important thing is that we get a system that allows us to prevent the big sale to minors. Most people who start tobacco are under 18 years of age, and until now we have not had any specific measures by the authorities to regulate and prevent this. To the second amendment proposed by the Government Party for Progress, Mr Wold said that it was not the most important thing in the world. Nevertheless, they bring a case against their own health minister, against the agreements they have with the cooperation parties, and have a rather varied argument to do so – except that they want it to be legal to drink darts in parks. Right does not want a quick law change. They might have a slightly slower change in the laws, so that what a park is can work out first, how much volume we talk about, and how much police resources we need to use for this. There are few in these parties who talk about what's really the matter: what do we want with the non-alcoholic sons in Norway? Do we mean it's okay that you go in and allow drinking on public land because it's a park? Or do we mean that we actually have to fence over the non-alcoholic sons? I think the proposal is a blow to what has been an important pillar of the Norwegian alcohol policy, namely the non-alcoholic zones. It's now under pressure. I am pleased to note that there is a large majority against the proposal of the Progress Party, but based on what has been said from the Chair, both the Left, who is talking about a kind of piloting scheme and an ambulatory bulwark permit for the park, and the Right will evaluate it in the next period. I'm afraid we'll get back to this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e776	Just a brief comment on Prop. 109 L. When the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government agreed to an authorisation scheme in 2013, it was because the majority of the hearing bodies recommended it. It is a little difficult to see that there should be a much more bureaucratic system than a system of registration and supervision, but for the Workers' Party, the most important thing is that the system chosen works. That is why we are in favour of a system of registration and supervision and support the proposition. We also ask in the notes that the development is closely monitored and evaluated that this works as intended. For document 8:105 L it is Freddy de Ruiter from the Workers' Party who is the case rapporteur. He has leave today, so I will keep the posts of the Labour Party and the President-in-Office. Norwegian legislation requires authorisation to drink or serve alcohol in a public place. It is the municipalities that can grant such a grant, which must then apply to a defined area. Fortunately, there is broad political agreement on the main lines of alcohol policy we have in the country. The proposal to allow consumption of alcohol below 22 % by volume in parks promoted by the Progress Party is in violation of this policy and could clearly have negative consequences. It is a general perception that Norwegian alcohol policy is successful because we have clear control, we have regulation and control, which is again important to support good attitudes and values in alcohol use. Permitting the use of alcohol in parks would challenge this in an unfortunate way. A general derogation from the alcohol law for the whole country will also imply quite significant changes in current legislation. Norway has, thanks to its restrictive alcohol policy, low alcohol consumption compared to other European countries. It is also the case that our alcohol legislation could be challenged by ESA, as former representatives have also been here and said. That is why we must manage the alcohol policy so that we can safeguard our credibility internationally and defend the monopoly and other arrangements with ESA and the EFTA Court. The Labour Party believes that the proposals of the Progress Party entail unnecessary and undesirable liberalisation and that the proposal could also be difficult to deal with by the authorities and the police. We believe that the proposal appears to be a little thoughtful, without looking at the consequences. Parks and other open spaces shall be safe for all, and not least for children and families. There is also a point that those who are struggling with alcohol problems may not be able to deal with drinking people to an even greater extent than today. In view of this, and not least for the sake of good alcohol policy in Norway, the Labour Party will not support this proposal by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e793	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e809	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to three lines with replies after the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e818	After all, it is good practice for the rapporteur to use the opportunity to thank for a good, constructive and tidy cooperation. At least I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in this matter. This is a matter that we have been working on for a long time, and today, in this Chamber, we are going to determine important framework conditions for agricultural property policy. The issue we are going to deal with has a major impact on this country's farmers in terms of liberalisation, simplification, opportunities and challenges. And as it says in today's edition of the Nation, this is quite right a brand day for Norwegian agriculture and forestry. I was also the case rapporteur in the previous round where we considered proposals to amend the concession law for agricultural properties. At the time, the government received a number of orders from this hall. The proposition that is being promoted in this round, I believe that I respond very well to the request decisions that were then made. Most of the proposals that come forward are a follow-up to Stortingen’s request decisions in connection with the treatment of Inst. 153 L for 2015–2016, on amendments to the concession law and the Enforcement Act. The proposal also deals with a request decision taken during the treatment of Innst. 56 S for 2015-2016 by the Food and Agriculture Committee, on national soil protection strategy, where the Government of Decision II (g) is asked to ‘encourage legislative proposals so that soil law applies to restocked cultivated land until the cultivated land is actually built’. In its platform, the government has argued that it has, among other things, by less red tape and simplification of laws and regulations will give individuals greater freedom to rule their own lives. Furthermore, the Government has stressed that ownership is a fundamental right and that one should strengthen the farmer's right to free disposal of his own property. As part of this work, the Ministry proposes changes to both the divisional provision and the operational obligation provision of the law. In order to ensure the effective follow-up of payments of wrong-paying State funds to agricultural enterprises, the Ministry proposes amendments to the law on subsidies. For the Progress Party, private ownership is a crucial right, and we believe – and have always believed – that the right of the farmer to dispose more of his own property is a fundamental right for agriculture to develop in line with other industries. In a more open and demanding market, it is essential that we work to regulate the framework conditions of agriculture in favour of greater nutrition for the individual farmer. I'm glad the government shares a lot of these ambitions. The proposition just adds that the farmer should be able to decide more about himself and his own property. After we have now dealt with this matter, we finally modernised the law a little bit. The concession law has, in many respects, acted as a barrier to competition, reduced the desire to invest and provided an unfortunate property structure. I am therefore pleased that after several years of this case on the desk we can finally say that we have come a while to modernise the law in line with the agriculture we have today. I am therefore very pleased that today it seems to be a majority to increase the area limit for concession from 25 to 35 dekar cultivated land. This is an important measure of development and growth, and it is good that we now finally listen to the industry and will operate more efficiently in agriculture. Pure forest properties are also now, it looks like, except for price control, and I would like to thank the Left for at least supporting the government's proposal in this respect. It is important that the law distinguishes well between soil and forest, and this decision will be an important step in that direction. This liberalisation will lead to more passive forest owners selling to people who want to drive the forest. In this way, the industry is getting more wood to work with, and this is important in terms of value creation and jobs. That's why this country's forest owners have every reason to rejoice today. So, finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the matter. It has reminded me of something very important – that working as a staging representative is exciting and challenging, and that one thing is absolutely certain: nothing is clear until things are resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e837	The President believes that the representative should make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e842	I am promoting the proposals that the Progress Party is behind in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e847	The representative Morten Ørsal Johansen then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e854	I am probably a little more restrained in the cheer from here, both because of the content of this matter and because of the process that has been. Thus, it is not a brand day – in that case it is a sad brand day. On page 15 of the proposal, it appears that the Board of Governors considers that the basis of the hearing in this case is no less than a breach of the investigation instruction. At the same time, we know that there has been a new proposal almost across the table in the Committee to grant a concession in respect of forestry properties up to 3000 deches, and today we became aware, in the early days, that the Left is promoting proposals – in terms of what should be the majority of the government – where more investigation is actually required. So my question to the case rapporteur is: Is the case rapporteur comfortable with the basic material available for such dramatic and so significant proposals for the property structure in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e861	The case rapporteur feels that this matter has been worked out and well done. That the process that has taken place in dealing with the matter, perhaps also has been a bit unstructured, the case rapporteur should fully agree, but in addition to that, I think the matter has been well investigated. We are doing some important steps in developing Norwegian agriculture, and I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e866	I agree with what the representative Storberget says about the process, and in the setting we see that the Right Party and the Progress Party have a proposal that forest property under 3000 dekar should not be subject to the concession law at all. So this is a proposal that the Right Party and the Progress Party have chosen not to include in the listening ring. This is a proposal that the Right Party and the Progress Party have not included in the proposition. So I'm wondering, what's the background for the Right and the Advance Party in the request for the bulk treatment suddenly realized that forest property under 3,000 covers should not be subject to the concession law?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e871	There is now a caretaker to thank for the question – I do not! It's like when we deal with matters, there's someone who's working together through the treatment, and we're trying to come to an agreement. This was one of the suggestions that were discussed during the discussions we have had with other parties, and for which it now turns out that there is no majority in favour. It is a proposal that emerged during the debate and that we believe was a good proposal, but on which we unfortunately did not agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e876	I thank you for the answer, even though I may not have been quite wise about it, because I would assume that the natural thing was that the Right Party and the Advance Party put into the proposition the things they were busy about, and then one negotiated into the Storting. But is it the case that there are other parties in the process who have demanded that this proposal of 3,000 dean should be included?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e882	I can just refer to my previous answer, that we've had conversations with other parties about this, and we've discussed many solutions, where this could be a solution. But now the setting is presented with the proposals from the proposition, and we're satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e887	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e892	Today, when we deal with amendments to the concession law, the law of the land and the law of the land, it is the end of a matter that has more or less followed us on the Storting throughout this period. When a minority government promotes things, it's not always given that they will have a majority. It is also true in this case that they will not have a majority for all proposals. On this matter I am promoting, on behalf of the Left, a solution to the resolution, which I hope the Storting will support. That is proposal No. 8:@item: intable Text context ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the proposal to exempt forest and land-use property from the concession law as such, exemptions linked to land limits such as 3000 deches, and at the same time to investigate an increase of 500 deches in productive forest in the concession law.’ And proposal No. 9: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the consequences of further liberalisation of the concession obligation in addition to the legal changes that are now being adopted for purely forested properties’.» These proposals are promoted in the light of the fact that government parties have made a proposal on the freedom of concession in forest properties of less than 3000 deches. We do not support this proposal, but we want to assess it when there is an investigation of the consequences of introducing such a provision. We also want to look this up against the consequences of completely removing the concession obligation on clean forest properties and harmonising the current forest land border against the adjustment that the Storting is currently making on concessional agricultural land. We want more knowledge. And for the record, we want to remove the price control on clean forest properties. The left also supports the proposal to increase the area of the concession obligation from 25 dekar to 35 dekar land. We believe this is a moderate increase, which provides better adaptation to today's agricultural structure. This cancellation will not apply to the large majority of properties, which are exempted from the concession application since they are sold or transferred to related and nobility. Therefore, the scope of the law includes a small proportion of agricultural and forestry property traded. The residence requirement for both concessionable properties and non-concessional properties is governed by the concession law, and therefore this is also an argument for not having further increase in the land limit. The left is therefore comfortable with a limit of 35 dekar and considers this to be well taken into account. As far as other proposals are concerned, the Left wishes to wind up the Odel Act. It's therefore unproblematic for us to raise the area requirement for odd assets. It is also natural that the land limits of the Odel Act correspond to the land requirement in the case of compulsory agricultural property. The left is particularly concerned with soil protection. Cultivated soil is a resource that is important to take care of. It is best done by cultivating and caring for it. There is therefore a need for legal instruments to fulfil the obligation to operate and to ensure that sanctions are available whose land is set aside. The left is concerned that the forest is operated in rational units. Agriculture and the forest are an important part of the green shift we have to go through. So it's important that we have a property structure and ownership that makes us get the best possible use of the biomass that is produced. The removal of price controls on clean forest properties will hopefully contribute to this. This change is also wanted by the forest owners’ organisations. That's why we're involved in some of the changes relating to pure forest properties, and we're clear that we're looking at different soils and forests. Detachment of land up to 2 detachments requires Left to regional level. We are promoting this in proposal No. 7, which I'm going to take up. Furthermore, I refer to the text and also to the above proposals, No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e924	The representative of Pål Farstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e931	Sometimes I have some doubts about what the Left really means – also in this case. I understand that a new investigation relating to the proposal on forest property up to 3 000 deches is now being requested, while also asking for an investigation relating to liberalisation in general. Now we have been working on this matter for two to three years in Stortinget. The left is a support party to the government and has been able to ask for investigation every day, if they wanted it. We have examined the matter in the committee, where proposals for further examination of these proposals have not been made, so it does not appear in the vote. Only today early does this appear. What is the reason why the Left has not chosen to ask its partners, the Right and the Advance Party and the Government to investigate this before?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e940	When the proposal was presented, if the 3,000 deaks, as it is referred to here, left wasn't involved, as we know. It is derived from the setting. Then we've discussed whether this makes sense to be in or not, and we've come to an assessment that this needs to be investigated in more detail. We need to acquire more knowledge because what was presented was not enough for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e945	My concern is to get a little grip on what the Left actually wants on such an important property issue and such an important political issue. I register that it is not possible to get hold of it. It's a little sad, all the time left sitting on the tip of such important things. The left and the representative of Farstad are sure to know the proud history of the Left in terms of the concession laws of Gunnar Knudsen's time, where they really called about this kind of set of rules to ensure local ownership and to really ensure much of the foundation of what we have today. Is it not the representative of Farstad that we are now asking the government to liberalise and remove further this legislation, when we see that so many farms and so many forestry are falling out of the whole scheme? Doesn't it worry the Left's representative that they're failing their tradition here?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e950	What I feel is that we take responsibility for is asking for this to be resolved. We have assessed the matter, but now we are asking for an investigation based on what I signed in the main post. That should be a good news, given what the representative Storberget is defending here in the Chamber. For my part, this is a question of getting more knowledge and getting to know more, because we want to take the grips that can be reasonable to get more speed on the operation of the forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e955	I'm recording that when it comes to the proposal on freedom of concession for forest property up to 3,000 dean, the Left is very busy with knowledge. But the changes they have notified that they will vote on do so without running an ordinary legal process. We have had a hearing to which the Board of Directors was very critical, because they said that the proposals were incomplete. We have a situation today where the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre propose a legislative process relating to ownership laws. The left hand side is not inside that side. It seems that the Left now has replaced knowledge with ideology, and that makes me very, very concerned. My question is, what is the need for a cover to raise the limits of property that must have a concession, from 25 to 35 pieces?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e962	First to the Board of Regulators. We have also noted the objections of the Board of Directors. We have discussed whether this was sufficient for us not to take the matter further, but found out that it was sufficient for us to deal with it. With regard to the increase from 25 to 35 decarns, we believe that there is harmonisation of developments in agriculture. It's not that long since it was increased to 25 dekars, and there were good arguments from several teams and on both sides here on the Storing for that increase. So increasing this from 25 to 35 pieces is something that the left is very much in favour of, in terms of both our program and what we have foreshadowed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e969	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e975	I think I'll start there the line ended. This is unusually important legislation in Norway. When we talk about the development of soil and forest, we often talk about budgets, we talk about import protection, and we can talk about market, but the property rule is obviously very important in Norway. The working party is of the opinion that one of the reasons why we have done so well in many ways and have the productivity development we have, and that we have the benefits of Norwegian agricultural and forestry policy that we have seen in Norway over the years, and that we do not see in our closest neighboring country – healthy and good food, a relatively decentralised housing and a food production and productivity increase – is that we have a clear hold on a very differentiated ownership structure and that it is locally anchored. Many of the representatives of Pål Farstad's former party traps and the ancestors of the Left, but also representatives of other parties, who were thwarted by these concession laws, were just concerned about how to safeguard local ownership and how to protect themselves, so that there are no pure participations, often with interests other than the cultivation of land and forest, which enter and take over these sustainable and renewable resources. So I have to ask the question, has that issue become less topical over the years? No, and there are two reasons for it: First of all, we know that capital accumulates around fewer people. We know it has become global, and at the same time we know that the need to exploit these sustainable resources locally is greater than ever, given the food challenges and climate challenges we face – creating sustainability of the way we live. So the consideration behind the concession law is actually more topical than ever, both in terms of a differentiated ownership and in terms of, among other things. the global climate challenges we face. That's why I'm jumping over so that it's the left that in many ways becomes the exponent to liberalize a piece of law that we actually need more. From the Labour Party we have also said that we see that some parts of this law must of course be open to adjustments. But taking this kind of jump, to which you're almost invited over the table, for example. in the case of forest property up to 3000 dekars, is inappropriate both in view of what this law is intended to serve, and in view of its procedural nature. If we are to ensure an even distribution, local ownership and active operation and prevent actors from entering this area for other purposes and purposes, we need to have property rules that function and that ensure this. It is strange that those who drive out see this, and that many of those who own it do not want these changes – those who could gain quickly by removing price controls and eliminating concessional opportunities. I would also like to warn you very strongly in this article that this kind of law is being corroded with this kind of procedure. In this way, I agree with the case rapporteur from the Progress Party that this has been unstructured. That's a mild description. The proposition quotes from a board of rules that suggests, quite clearly, that much of the preparatory work for this work is contrary to the investigative instructions. These are serious things. Moreover, the process in the committee has not done anything better — where we almost got a proposal on very important sizes, and today a new proposal for a new investigation was made early on. You should be able to explain, with all the clarity, that this is not good enough. For this reason, the Labour Party will make proposals – I address the proposals that we share with others – to send this matter back to the government and to ensure that these kinds of changes, small and large, must be subject to a broader assessment, preferably through a Norwegian public investigation, which precisely takes care of and examines the considerations that need to be taken before a change is made. It deserves this case complex more than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e994	The representative Knut Storberget has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1001	Agriculture has its support systems, import protection and rules, while forestry is much more internationally based, has more international competition and is thus less well protected than agriculture. But it is true that the forest offers many good industrial opportunities, and we have created both our own bioeconomy strategy and other messages that show that it is a great potential for forest nutrition. Today’s legislation actually prevents, not only really, but to a very large extent, efficient and rational exploitation of the forest, and it prevents industrial development, which is also pointed out in different messages and in different strategies. My question is why the Labour Party only listens to agriculture and not to forestry when it comes to forest industry's framework conditions, which are intended to contribute to the creation of growth and development in industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1008	It's a little strange to hear that you're just listening to agriculture. As one who grew up in a forest family, and with active forestry around me for 50 years, I feel that I have at least got the impression of forestry. And as I said in my post, it's a little strange to experience that those who are in the industry and have their shoes on, don't scream after these changes, whether you're a little or a big forest owner. I am convinced that if you are to be able to process more of the timber in Norway, and also improve the arrears of forest property around – because it is necessary – this is not the right medicine. It is not that which must be done, and that is where I believe the government parties are bomming. I rather believe on the contrary that many of these changes in the rules could actually help to make the sale of properties worse, and that it must be for both land change schemes and tax incentives, which the Workers' Party has also fought for, in order for us to get better arrondance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1015	I have no doubt that you are in good contact with parts of the forest industry and the forest industry when you yourself come from a family that runs forest. However, industry points out — and so far also the organisations of forest industries — that this is a major challenge in developing forest industries in line with the needs of the industry. My question will then be: How does the Labour Party really want the forest industry to develop when meeting the needs of the industry? There is no proposal from the Labour Party on this. You claim that they will do it another way, but you won't. What do they want, and what alternatives do they have?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1022	The President will note that all speeches are to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1027	It is quite obvious to us, and as I said in my previous answer, the main challenges facing Norwegian forest management are not the subject of concession law. I am absolutely convinced of that. That's why we have the position we have on the proposals for amendments to the concession law that are now being outlined. When it comes to processing more in Norway, I would like to refer to, among other things. the treatment of the forest notification. We had a number of proposals related to this – which I believe are very important, and where the government has not taken the chance – both in terms of the capital situation, how much to do, and in terms of research and development. And we have infrastructure-related measures, which are certainly important. I also believe that if you're going to have a different type of property structure, you have to bet more on an active land change and tax incentives, and there hasn't exactly been any government that has shown particular zeal to do anything, for example. in the payroll round we last had.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1034	The representative Storberget says that we should use the resources in the forest – and concludes with the very opposite. But he'll have to do it on his own. He also says that we should listen to the industry, and he says that the industry is not screaming for changes. Norskog, one of the largest forest organizations, has shrunk loudly and for a long time. How high and long will they actually scream before the Workers' Party and the Storberget react?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1039	I have always seen Norskog as a very constructive co-player associated with measures to distribute more of the forest. I have just experienced Norskog as an actor who does not put all of his eggs in the basket attached to concession law. I am aware that they have a different position than the Workers' Party in this respect, but one should not go far beyond Norskog's environment until one feels that the eagerness to change the concession law is not the same. And then I'm convinced – that's a political question and in this way a political answer – that no matter how much organizations and politicians from the Right and the Advance Party are screaming for changes here, it doesn't look as if you're getting an impact on it. We're going to have to comfort ourselves with that. The measures needed to process more of the forest are, in the view of the Workers' Party, quite different from Norwegian concession law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1048	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1053	It's a very important and fundamental matter we're discussing today. It is about the exploitation of the resource base in districts and how best to do so. As the rapporteur said, the regulation of property in agriculture is a very strong intervention in the individual's right to dispose of his own property. So you're going to think about who you're going to sell, and what price you might sell, as some examples. There are very strong interventions, which must have positive effects on their defence, because they weaken the ability of the owner to invest and the willingness to risk. There has been a clear look in the nations that it is becoming more expensive funding. And it freezes a property structure out in District Norway. So it's all going to be less activity. Then I think it's amazing that the focus of the debate is on maybe getting in and getting bought property, when you actually see that there's no real estate being traded outside the family – because today it's almost impossible to get into the industry for anyone other than those in the family with previous owners. It's also a bad shoe. Agriculture and forestry are two distinct industries. Agriculture is protected within an import protection and receives large transfers from the country. I can see that there are many reasons why you have a concession law that limits, among other things, the development of property prices, so that government subsidies do not shift directly to increased values. That could be a straightforward explanation. But forestry, which is an internationally oriented industry, which lives in markets without any protection, and which receives very little nutrient transfer, is thus subject to the same constraints as in agriculture. It is quite incomprehensible to me that the Storting always listens to those who need protection, and does not develop a nutritional basis in such a way as to bet on the industries that actually live out there in the world. We know that forest resources are under-utilised. The question is, can we afford to keep doing that? We are missing out on jobs, value creation and activity — especially in the districts. When Storberget talks about that he thinks we should have more of this, he speaks against a whole value chain. It may not be so strange, because it was under the red-green we went from being a net importer to becoming a net exporter of timber. We just export the value creation potential to Sweden, and I understand that he wants even more of that. It's also quite remarkable. For my part, I think we need to focus on property structure and get sales on property. That's when it really becomes activity. District Norway can no longer afford to sit and look at a resource that is about to rot down, and that will not do what we are talking about as an important job, namely on the climate side. To our minority proposal, which has also been in the loop: it is clear that there was a proposal that was tailor-made for the Left to be dragged into a further dissolution of the concession provisions. When I now hear in the line that the left is for a full concession exemption on clean forest properties, I am actually quite in agreement with Storberget that it is amazing that we have not heard anything about it before. The matter has actually been dealt with for three years – it actually started with Minister of Agriculture Sylvi Listhaug – and our primary position has been known for a long time. In the Right Programme and in the Advance Party Programme, it is quite clear that there is a desire for full dissolution of the regulation on the ownership side of forestry. If we had received a signal that it was desired, we would have investigated this for three years and had quite a good answer. But when that is said, I believe that the full exemption from price control is a significant step in the right direction. I hope that it can help speed up a resource that the nation of Norway cannot afford to keep up as it does today, without creating significant more activity in District Norway. And that's actually our goal to steer the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1073	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1078	The government's proposal for amendments to the concession law is dramatic and has major consequences, many of which today feel that the scope of which is not visible. In states like Finnmark, Troms, Hordaland, Nordland and Agder will actually between 70 and 80 pst. of the properties be without property and dwelling obligation. This has a major impact on housing and will result in centralisation. Then you hear from Gundersen's posts that the purpose is to get more circulation and better arrondance. Does the representative not see that there are other instruments that are needed to achieve greater turnover and better arrears — such as profit taxation and land change?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1085	Yes, it is clear that there may be other measures that could also contribute. But the dramatic thing is that, as I said, on the forest side, we're going to get a resource that's not being used very closely in relation to what's potential. I can't verify how many uses in each state that go below the border, but what I noticed is that in the hearing replies it was said that on the moor is 50 pst. of the agricultural area now leased land. How many times are empty? We've heard that it's up to 30-40 pst. of the uses around them, especially when far away from the active labour market regions. So I wanted to focus on the fact that we have completely different challenges, which are big, but the important thing is that we need to focus on how we keep this going, and how we get those who want to bet on the industry, into the industry. And our grips have shown that the recruitment is better now than it was under the red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1090	Does the representative, Mr Gundersen, think that changes to this law will result in fewer use in the areas that will be inhabited? Here one would rather see that when there are exemptions from concession and housing obligations, there are other interests that will be raw, such as capital interests and perhaps even foreign interests. Will this not only mean that the uses will be exhausted, that the settlement in the districts will be damaged and that centralisation will be achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1095	As I said instead: I believe the problem is that the uses are empty today. And they're maturing. The question is, could we possibly get owners who actually kept them up, brushed them up and used them? At least we should discuss what is the problem today, and that is that the uses are largely empty and they are due. It gives a bad impression of District Norway. I drive up the Østerdalen in quite as pig-grown strokes quite often, and it is desirable to see just how many uses stand and fall due. They are not even used as a resort. Maybe we could have gotten the owners who at least used them as a holiday home. It would, in my view, have been a step forward in relation to just having them standing empty and maturing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1100	I am sure that I and the representative Gunnar Gundersen are some that forest is an important national resource. Another important national resource we have in Norway, is small power. This is not subject to any concession law, and what we see now is that the small power is sold out of the country. When we now hear that the representative, Mr Gundersen and Mr Right, want a full liberalisation of the forest property law, there is a possibility that we can also do so with our forest property. But only one value question for the representative Gundersen and Right: Is it a goal for the Right to secure Norwegian ownership of Norwegian forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1109	Yes, that's a simple answer to that: of course it is. That's some of the reasons why we focus on, among other things. to lower the property tax: not to discriminate against Norwegian ownership, as the red-greens do. The worst way to handle Norwegian ownership is to give them a lead weight around life, then to sprint and compete with international ownership. So it's clear that keeping local ownership is very important to us. In the case of small power, I observe that there has been an enormous investment out there by local owners. I cannot verify whether it is now being sold out, but at least there has been a significant commitment to local ownership and development, which has benefited the districts. If someone has challenges and sells abroad, it will mean that they probably also rescue themselves from bankruptcy, for example. These may be special examples, but basically we want to welcome the local ownership and the local investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1116	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1121	Long-term and central social interests are linked to ownership and management of soil and forest. The Christian People's Party believes that society should have control and influence over the ownership and trading of agricultural property. We believe that the ownership policy in Norway should be based on private ownership and individual administrative responsibility. The process that has led to today's debate has been going on for many years and clearly shows that property policy is not a «walk in the park». We are not satisfied with the proposals made by the government, but note that good work has been done in the department and the directorate, that there have been professional arrangements for the issues we are debating today. But I don't find so many good bridges from the professional analyses to many of the government's political proposals. Therefore, there is also little support for the government from the Christian People's Party in this matter. One of the observations that worries me is the increase in land rent. We can say that over the past 25 years, there has been a huge gap between the ownership and business structure of agriculture. The proportion of land rented is high throughout the country. One very serious problem, as I see it, is that too much of the agricultural area is about to go out of business. In my opinion, the regulations of the Land Act on compulsory employment are the main tool for ensuring the operation of all land and thus keeping the land in claim and ensuring active farmers access to land. I'm glad that the whole committee joins in this. The obligation to drive applies to all land and all ownership time. The follow-up of the obligation to operate lies with the municipalities, and I think they need more sanctions to enforce this basic obligation as part of the ownership of agricultural land in Norway. I am concerned that the farmers should not lie awake at night because they are not sure whether rented land can be included in a long-term basis for investment and recruitment. Leases must therefore be long-term and written. Furthermore, incentives for the sale of additional soils need to be strengthened. I lack the government's response to the proposal of the working group that assessed the land problem in 2015 and that pointed to tax as an effective tool for the sale of additional land. I have faith in this instrument. The Christian People's Party strongly reiterates the function of the law to ensure good and forward-looking solutions for the design of property. The rules of the Land Act on the sharing of property shall therefore always apply, including for the sale of additional land. In my opinion, the proposal on changes in the landline of the concession obligation is not well-founded. The concession law has important functions to ensure the settlement and healthy formation of prices on agricultural property. I would warn against undermining the authority of this regulatory tool by limiting its scope to the extent that it is now set up. In parts of the country, large parts of the agricultural area will fall under the proposed concession exemptions. Nor can I see a single valid argument that this proposal will reduce the rent share. Nor does the Christian People's Party support the proposal for a concession waiver in cases where the tenant buys property. This is an unnecessary proposal, as we see it, because existing legislation and the practice of it already facilitates the sale of additional land when good operational solutions can be achieved, and when the price reflects the return value of the properties, driven by agriculture. The best can be the enemy of good. I remind myself that all regulation and interference in private property rights should have a very good purpose. In terms of price control on clean forest properties, I have been in doubt. Forestry lives under market conditions other than agriculture and is characterised by long-term investment and rarely harvested. Nor has forestry had such a development in business structure as agriculture. Price control is also not a suitable tool to ensure a scattered and local ownership of forest resources. Such considerations lie in other functions of concessional treatment. On the other hand, most of the forest land in the country is mainly farmland. This, together with land and grazing, forms the basis for most of our farms. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party cannot support the changes in the legislation that could pose a risk that a new price level for clean forest land could pass on to farmland, and thus to general agricultural property. Such an approach suggests that changes in price control of clean forest properties must be extremely cautious. The Christian People's Party will therefore not support the proposal to exempt clean forest property from price control during concession treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1144	It is likely that the representative will address proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1149	Yes, I'm addressing proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1155	The representative, Line Henriette Hemdal, then mentioned the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1162	The Christian People's Party took part in most of the request decisions on the distribution and liberalisation of the concession law. Now we look at the setting that essentially the Christian People's Party does not support the changes that have been proposed. I would like to ask: What is the reason and reason for this – even if the representative was interested in some of it in his post?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1167	I thank you for the line. If anything, I have been in doubt, and I say that quite explicitly in the post. It's about pure forest properties. For the Christian People's Party, there is a balance between private ownership and society's development. To find that balance sheet has spent a lot of time on the signed and Christian People's Party. We now experience that we have found a proper balance. Property law is of great importance to our agriculture. That's why we've spent time. We have asked for investigations, we have worked – and have now landed on a correct and long-term legislation in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1176	My question should not be complicated. My question is: does the Christian People's Party think that changes to such an important law as the concession law should take place on the basis of an ordinary legislative process?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1181	Yes, it means Christian People's Party and signed. This case had a very special entry point in that we started with it after a government council sent out a letter to the municipalities to cancel the price control. Then we got the whole thing from there – I guess we'll write about that. November 2013, if I remember correctly. That's why we also thought it should be a complete review. I am absolutely sure that the representative Pollestad also knows that in the Christian People's Party we wanted to see agricultural policy, agricultural policy and property policy together in our own big message. We haven't been able to get a majority for that. Now we're dealing with this a little bit piecewise and divided, but a whole series of thoughts here would have been important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1188	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1193	I want to start by thanking the case manager for at least trying to get a clean configuration. I don't think the committee's been happy with that. That responsibility shall not be borne by the case-speaker. The case spokesperson said in his post that this is an important matter for the farmers. No, it's not just an important matter for the farmers. It is primarily an important matter for Norway. It's about who's going to have the ownership of land and forest in Norway in the future. Historically, the concession law is a very important law, which has led us in Norway to have a widespread and local ownership, that we have national control of the resources. What has been important for the Centre Party has been how we can secure Norwegian ownership, local ownership, and how we can secure self-owning farmers. This has also been the foundation of our ownership laws, and it is important to stick to them. But now – with a multiple of Right, Advance Party and Left – it seems that the question is more: how can we liberalize the legislation as much as possible? The representative of Farstad, on my question of raising the concession limit from 25 to 35 deches, was able to provide the basis for a harmonisation of developments. One should expect that a party that was involved in such extensive changes as the Left is involved in this matter would have managed to justify its position better than that it is a harmonisation of developments. I have received many requests for this matter. They have not come from a youth who wants to enter the industry and who says that the concession law prevents them. No, they've come from developers, they've come from real estate brokers who wonder if they have to sell a property as a gardener to a neighbor or someone else, or whether they can sell it as a leisure property and take out a big potential. It's those who are interested – it's the participating interests that knock on the door. I have full respect for what the Right Party and the Progress Party have done in this matter. I know that the Right Party and the Progress Party want a different system. I know they want the concession law to go away. They want liberalisation. What I'm wondering is the way the left has behaved, where one without a regular legal process makes quite big changes that we don't know the consequences of, among other things. the exemption from price controls on the pure forest properties. We don't know what the infective effect this has on the combined forest and soil properties, how this can be used by creative lawyers to avoid promises. The concession law is like a balloon. Now there's a piece of a hole in that balloon. Whether it's large or small is quite insignificant. The consequences are thus somewhat the same. This case has a very special story, which started with the proposal from Listhaug to lift the price control, the famous letter and several rounds in the control committee. So the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, and the Left Writing Time in the Storting and made an order. Some of the orders were so far outside that even the Progress Party Council saw no reason to follow them up. This is a hot candidate to become the mother of all the bad processes, and the interview we've seen in the hall today doesn't reduce the chances of winning that prize. Our hydropower is a good example. On the large hydropower, we have concession legislation — it is nationally owned. When it comes to small power, it is true that there was investment – there are exemptions from the concession. But when it closes a little bit, what happens? Heavy national resources are sold out of the country. That's what the Center Party wants to avoid with the soil and forest properties. Therefore, we are moving against the proposed changes. What I'm wondering is that when we've put forward a proposal to get a big deal to see how we can bring down the rented part of the land, to see how we can prevent the deathbud from doing this, how we can get up the translation, then the majority can't support it, because such an arrangement doesn't want to. There is no doubt about why: when you are going to liberalize society, knowledge stands in the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1218	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1223	I have registered that the centre party both in the setting and in the media has expressed fear that the amendments to the concession law will increase the volume of agricultural land that is being used up. As the representative Pollestad is absolutely aware, it is not the concession law that imposes the obligation to operate, it is the law of the land that does. The need to maintain the obligation to drive is a broad political consensus. This Decision will not change it. If properties are to be used for non-agricultural purposes, they are governed by the laws of the Land and the Law on Planning and Building. My question to the Center Party is whether they don't trust local authorities in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1230	The center party is very busy that there will be nutrition, and that there will be people living in the whole country. One of the things we've been criticising is that the majority have turned the concession law into the law that owes it to everything: it's the concession law that owes it to 30 000 empty agricultural properties in Norway, it's the concession law that owes it to the fact that there's little sale of property in Norway, it's the concession law that owes it to the killing of forests for a long time. Of course, that's not right. Obligation is important – and important beyond professional obligations – because the obligation guarantees national ownership of the major property, precisely because one cannot sit as a unit trust or an investment fund and own land and forest in Norway. Difor is she important. Driving is important, but duty is far from adequate. That's why we have this position in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1235	On 3 February 2016, it was read in the Nations that Norwegian forest owners are cheering on proposals for price control. In its program, the center party writes: ‘Today, the wood processing industry is in a very demanding phase. Many farms are closed, many are threatened, and the industry has to change.’ And on the other hand, ‘Member States must organise these new necessary framework conditions in order to ensure future-oriented forestry.’ Nevertheless, the Centre Party opposes the proposal to exempt price controls on clean forest properties, even though the industry has clearly requested this for the benefit of value creation and jobs and the use of forest resources. How does the representative explain this contradiction?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1253	For us, this is about securing Norwegian ownership of the Norwegian forest and the Norwegian soil. The centre party has proposed a number of things in which the Progress Party has not supported us, and which I believe would have far more importance in securing growth and development in the Norwegian forest industry, among others. a green investment fund. We are positive for the development of forest roads. We went, unlike the Progress Party, against protecting 10 pst. Of the forest in Norway, so binding it so directly we're critical of. So the representative Ørsal Johansen will notice that the Central Party is not against changes in laws, but we are against ideologically motivated changes. If one had done a full legal process and we had the consequences, the Center Party could be involved in discussing regulatory adjustments. What I fear about making changes in forest legislation now is primarily the impact of the combined agricultural and forestry heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1262	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1267	If this proposal is adopted, the number of concessional property will be reduced by 3 pst., from 129 500 to 125 700 – according to the SSB. The number of conscripted property will be reduced by 15 pst, from 83,000 to 70,000. It will give a huge increase in the number of possessions without price control and obligation to pay. State-to-state rashes are large. In the West and in North Norway, the rash will be colossal, where one will finally sit again with that about 70–80 pst. of the property is outside price control and mandatory. Why? Past experience shows that many of the ownership areas with busnets and self-service before land borders are raised become recreational property when the next generation takes over. This trend is strongest in areas that, before the change, already face busi­ness challenges. In central areas, property is not moved, but prices are increasing and contributing to the difficulty of purchasing additional land for neighbours active in agriculture. Raising land limits will therefore make it harder, not easier, to buy additional land in areas where agriculture is already struggling, especially in northern Norway, in the West and in Agder, Southland. When the use of a garden in a region cannot provide the necessary additional area at a defence price, the operating base becomes uncertain that it will be invested in further operations. This in turn increases the number of closures. Every now and then, there's an excess of land left on the land, so that more and more land is thought of as marginal and out of use. The sum of these is the regeneration of the agricultural area. It may be a view of report No. 7/2015 from the Directorate of Agriculture – at 9.1 pst. of the full-grown land in operation in 1999 went out of service during the period up to 2014. This part will most likely increase faster than today by raising the area limits for mandatory and price control. So the consequences here are dramatic. And I also think the plural that this is necessary to develop the Norwegian forest industry. But the effect of this proposal is that forest property prices are increasing. I guess that's also the intention, it might seem like. In Sweden, where one has carried out a deregulation, one saw that the average price increased considerably. In addition, the removal of forest price controls will increase the negative land development we already have in Norwegian agriculture, especially in small-scale areas: Sørlanden, Vestlanden, Nord-Noreg – because selling property for hunting, fishing and leisure without price control would be more profitable than selling agricultural land plots with price control. If it goes beyond the field, it goes beyond the field, and it'll be a driver for it to grow further. On top of it all, the Right Party and the Advance Party want to exempt forest and outland properties of up to 30,000 covers from the concession law. The proposal is not published, and the department has not commented on it either, because the hearing authorities did not think this would happen. Therefore, one cannot help but think of this as an attempt at a coup from the government party. If the proposal becomes a reality, some 40,000 new property will fall outside the scope of the concession obligation. When we know that 58 pst. of all agricultural properties in Norway today already fall outside the odels and concession law, an increase of an additional 40,000 would be dramatic. It would then be such a small part that the concession law regulates that it is difficult to see that it can be held by layers at all. Thus, one might have reached the goal of the government party. This proposal has major negative consequences for Norway. It will lead to weighty Norwegian food production and make us more dependent on inputs from abroad, weakening Norwegian food security in general and pulling the carpet away from all the pious formulations the majority have agreed to increase Norwegian food production based on Norwegian resources. Furthermore, it will have great consequences for the woman as her own Norwegian soil and Norwegian forest property. Internationally, we see a strong trend. Rich actors buy up property in other countries where land and forest property are highly sought after, and very often it is for leisure purposes. So here one is going to be running a development where capital is going to decide, not most people -- which I at least once believed was the slogan of a certain party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1286	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1291	We all want living agriculture and forestry also in the districts, but it is that a concessional property with price control has a lower market value than it could otherwise have. It has a number of negative consequences. One of them is poorer access to capital and higher capital costs. It is well documented, and it is mentioned by the Nations, among others. under the title: ‘Borders lose the fight for low interest rates’ My question is: why will SV maintain a legislation that makes it more expensive for farmers, especially in the districts, to develop their farm?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1301	If capital access was the problem, one had to do something about it, but the proposal that's here on the table will cause the price of property to increase. This will, in the long term, reduce access to capital, because more of the values will be linked to loans and banks. It'll just be the investor's arena that goes into it. If you really want to do something about the access to capital, you can follow what our SVs line has, among other things. the agricultural notification – that one strengthens the access to capital, especially in the northern region. There we know that problems with both the mortgage and the value of property cause a problem with obtaining loans to make the necessary investments. Then a tool such as Innovation Norway or new measures can be used to secure that access to capital, while one does here, is to make things worse in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1306	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1311	The starting point for this discussion is, as many people have said, a desire to make it easier for private landowners themselves to dispose of their own property. We do that not only because these proposals are ideologically justified, as some people do today, but because they are necessary. The fact that the Labour Party has always been happy that public administration should be able to go in and out of control of private ownership is nothing new to me, but here we believed that we had a common value base with the Center Party. But it's the way that the Center Party is too private ownership until the private owner makes an assessment that the Center Party disagrees with. Then they're for public regulation. It is paradoxical if we are to follow the ideological trail that several representatives are calling for today. But I'm not just busy with it, because it's not just ideology that's behind these amendments. On the contrary, there is an analysis of the challenges facing Norwegian agriculture and forestry. When the Central Party from the Chair today says that we should have more self-owning farmers, they are at the heart of why these proposals are necessary. This is because Norwegian farmers, Norwegian farmers, are becoming increasingly self-ownership, because the land area is rising. 40 pst. of the agricultural area in operation in Norway is operated by a non-proprietary owner who owns the land. In some states we now see that the land area passes 50 pst. In a few years, if we don't make it possible to translate property, we will experience that in the whole country we will have a portion of the land of over 50 pst. If you're going to have self-owning farmers, as the Center Party says they are, it's strange that they want owners other than those who run the garden. It is therefore necessary to modernise the ownership laws. It's because we're trying to solve a problem that the Center Party recognizes exists, but it doesn't seem like we're trying to make up for it. That is why these proposals are necessary. There is also a background to the need to make changes and modernisations in legislation linked to forests. It's because the business actors say it's necessary, and because they say it's devastating for a potential asset creation that we don't have a property law that allows a continuous development of ownership structure in line with what gives operational profitability, and by ensuring that we can use forest resources to create values and jobs in the districts instead of just looking at who they own. This debate has not been influenced by the actual basis for why we have this discussion, namely that people who are drifting experience that ownership laws are not related to developments in their industries. Few have been within it. There are the main reasons for these proposals. It is therefore necessary for the Stortinget to make the necessary modernisations today. This process and these proposals that come from the government are settled. Based on Stortinget's order, we have made an assessment of them. We have sent them on a regular hearing. We've done an evaluation of the audio recordings. The proposals have been adjusted, and they have been sent to Stortinget as legislative proposals, so that the legislative assembly can decide on them. It is an ordinary legal process that the legislator can order a job, get them paid and get them processed. Therefore, there is no basis for many of the claims made by the Chair today. This means that Stortinget gets quite clear choices today. One can continue to cement a property structure that is not related to the operating structure neither in agriculture nor in forestry, or one can take the necessary small steps in a direction that provides greater flexibility and strengthens private ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1330	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1335	I hear the council say that these rules don't make it possible to trade property. I understand that the lack of investigation has also made sure that the political authorities have not grasped the facts. Is it so that the Council of State believes that the rules we have today do not allow property to be traded? For example: land rent, we really see a great goodwill out there in order to be able to translate it into those who rent, but there is something else that brakes. That is the one question I ask the Council of State to answer – whether it really is such that he believes that the rules do not allow property to be traded. The second is the extent to which the Council of State is comfortable with the procedural criterion contained in this legislative process, where constitutionally it assumes the responsibility of bringing about changes on such a failing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1342	The legislative proposals that come from the government are not proposals that are made on a failed basis, there is no basis for saying. I do not understand how the legislative assembly will have presented legislative proposals if it is not to be done with the Ministry's background, thorough hearings, evaluation of hearing recordings, and then feedback to the legislative assembly. It is possible to translate property, but there are not enough people who choose to do it, for example. Therefore, the proposal that comes from the government today suggests that in some more ownership, it should be the seller – i.e. the owner – and a potential buyer who is allowed to decide whether to execute the transaction and at what price. It is a common way of buying and selling in all other industries, but for some reason the Labour Party does not trust Norwegian farmers and forest owners to do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1350	The Council of State does not really answer the question. The best proof that this isn't well done is that you don't get too much of it and that many are against it. I think in this way the representative of the Christian People's Party made a very good contribution, and we hear from the Left that you want more investigation, you hear it from the Center Party, the Workers' Party and more. But you can also go outside this hall, where the Board of Directors, of all, has established that there is almost a breach of the investigation instructions. In addition, when proposals are made during the committee reading that I have not found any trace of in the consultation note, the Council of State has to worry a little when the procedural criticism comes. The limit up to 3000 deches in the case of forest property had to be interesting to find out, both what effect it has on forest and what effect it has on the whole instrument itself. So I just have to ask the question again: isn't this clear enough signals that the processing is too bad?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1361	The proposals made by the government in this matter have been dealt with in a defence way and sent to the Stortinget. What other proposals the Stortinget had to choose to have about this is up to Stortinget as a legislative assembly. But it's not right that we are going to lose a lot after loss today. In general, the government has several figures for the proposals it has made in the proposition. So to the criticism from the Board of Regulators. It is quite right that the Board of Directors criticises the government for not having essentially cleared the zero option. So the zero option was not going to make any changes. The Storting took the position when they sent the assignment to the government. When the legislative and lying assembly rejects the zero option before they ask the government to set it in motion, I think that criticism is of little relevance to the mission I received from the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1368	When I listen to the Council of State, I listen to a councillor who has a great commitment to the problem of land rent. As I said in my post, there is also a concern of the undersigned. The Council of State and the Government have submitted their proposals for legislative changes to the legislative assembly, proposals that we are discussing today, including on the problem of land rent. But leave it a little bit behind – I challenge the Council of State to that, if it's allowed. What I want to ask the Council of State is: In 2015, the government set up a working group on land renting problems. The report of this group points to taxation as an effective tool for increasing sales of additional land. My question to the Council of State is how he addresses the proposal for a tax exemption for the gain on the sale of additional land when the consideration does not exceed the value of the property used as agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1375	This council stands on the tax settlement the Stortinget has made, just as the Christian People's Party probably does. In that tax settlement, we have shown opportunities to reduce capital taxes on those who currently have taxes on wealth, by reducing corporate taxes and other rates, which give more profitability in agriculture and forestry. The land problem is not just solved with this proposal – I want to be honest about that – but it is an important contribution. Some of the things that are currently pending are not plural, Section 5, first paragraph, No. 6, which would make if a sold area to its neighbor was floating, it would have happened without a concession obligation. I think I would have given priority to those who wanted to buy the area that they are currently operating. The Storting says no. That's what I think is a pity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1382	I have understood that the Progress Party has traditionally been a party that has been responsible for Norwegian ownership of soil and forest. We may be some or not agree on the content and meaning of what is in the setting today, but one thing is certain: if one combines the proposals of the government, with the proposal of the Progress Party that the vast majority of forest properties in Norway should not be covered by the concession law, it will open up for foreign ownership of Norwegian forests in quite a big style compared to what it is today. Then my question is, isn't it a concern of a State Council from the Progress Party to open the door to foreign ownership of Norwegian soil and forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1395	This is exactly the same line of argument that the Workers' Party and the Center Party held when it applied to the hall of Statskog's property, which was relatively large property on a Norwegian scale. Then one also said that it was going to be foreign buyers that were going to storm in Norway and buy up these areas. The facts indicate that this is not the case. For example, in the case of: forest properties that are now sold do not only happen to Norwegian owners, but there are very few foreign stakeholders at all. 70 pst. are sold to forest owners in the same municipality, approx. 10 pst. to forest owners in one of the neighbouring municipalities, 12 pst. to the Environment Directorate and 7 pst. to the municipalities themselves. This shows that Norwegian forest owners are interested in developing Norwegian forest resources primarily in the search for Norwegian forest properties. This means that I am absolutely sure that the modernisation of the concession law and the price control will help to strengthen the basis for local Norwegian ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1400	This case does not concern the disposal of own property. It concerns the rules of the concession law on the purchase and sale of agricultural property. Here's right towards the Center Party. They've done that at all times. The Advance Party agrees with the Right. There are two different directions that are about whether or not we should have a concession system when purchasing agricultural property. The biggest threat to a seafaring farmer is profitability. Wages and salaries are deteriorating faster than property structure, which is why renting land is being provided. That's why you get a number of people working on the soil of others. If you take away the concession law, it'll be free for anyone to buy property, and that's the biggest threat to the owner-in-law, because then you've left the principle that it's a personal property. What's the Council's comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1409	It's that it would have been an advantage if the Center Party had adhered to the proposals I've actually made, and it's going to raise the area limit from 25 to 35 pieces. It sounds like this is a revolution, but it's a necessary modernisation of the law. I'm glad that there are multiples in Stortinget, not based on ideological understanding, but based on a practical understanding of what kind of challenges we see around the yard in District Norway. So the answer is very simple: if the Center Party sticks to the suggestions rather than to its own practice phrases, it will help to ensure that an informed debate on what these proposals contain materially, and that is: a more modern regulatory framework, which is adapted to the challenges that landowners have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1416	There is room for one line – the representative Knut Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1421	Thank you, President. I have so few days left at Stortinget that I have to take advantage of all the possibilities for a reply. In order to follow up what the representative Pollestad said about the concern that international investment actors come to Norway to buy up, for example. forest, in view of the proposal of the Right and Advance Party to raise the limit to 3000 deches: it is almost argued that there is no danger, because it has not happened, and it has not been seen. But this is the law of the future, and I must, with all due respect, be allowed to ask the Council of State if he does not see that there are any contradictions towards opening up to, for example. large forest properties — if you had been in favour of this — that it had opened the door to international capital players. That's the one. The second is about land renting, which sounds very lenient: yes, they have to buy. But won't that create a risk of circumvention of the law and adaptation, by first renting, and then getting bought concessionally?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1431	The last thing I'm not particularly concerned about. I think it would have provided the necessary flexibility for ownership transfer for farmers who are now running land, which they could later acquire based on the fact that the actual owner no longer drives it. It would have provided a property structure that is more harmonised with the structure of drifting farmers. In the case of capital injections into Norwegian forestry as a result of any foreign interest in purchases, the assessment is slightly twofold: I think the interest would have been shown to have been trusted, so we now see that she is trusted for the purchase of State Forest's property in connection with the arrondingsalt. If there is actually an interest in investing in value creation in Norway and creating new district work places based on Norwegian forest resources, only the Labour Party sees it as a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1445	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1452	Over generations, property law in agriculture has contributed to widespread and diverse private ownership of land and forests in Norway. The essential part of this support block in Norwegian legislation is to ensure family farming through local ownership, where an owner lives in the area where the property is located. Yes, there is a very important support in the Norwegian agricultural model. The proposals made by the government are therefore also a threat to the scattered settlement we have, and will contribute to centralisation. Although the Council of State feels otherwise today, the proposals that have been put forward are very poorly investigated and justified. It meant – and pointed out – more in the hearing, and even the government’s own regulatory board has pointed it out and been critical. Even we can see that the Right Party and the Advance Party in Stortinget come up with new proposals on the exemption of property up to 3,000 dean, without it being part of the hearing, and without having seen the consequences of it. When proposing such major legal changes, ideological conviction must not replace knowledge and understanding of the importance of change in society. For this reason, the Labour Party is also proposing today to return the proposal to the government and, in addition, to the government, to carry out a public inquiry into the ownership of agriculture. I think that the setting of what we adopt is inconclusive – and not least the consequences of what we adopt. As pointed out in the hearing, some states will be hit extra hard, harder than others. Experience has also shown that the use – with autonomous operation – is diverted by increasing the area boundaries. In Finnmark, Troms, Hordaland, Nordland and in my own county, West Agder, 70-80 pst. if the proposal for changes is implemented — a dramatic consequence for the settlement of the property in Inner Agder, with all the things it brings, such as the maintenance of cross-country schools, shops, cultural landscapes, etc. In other words, I think centralization will speed up. Capital goods – yes, even non-residents – want to invest in real estate that is now being opened up, and will take over, where hunting rights and leisure are of crucial interest. Just a short time ago we dealt with an agricultural message in this house. Fortunately, it ended up with a belly pad for the government. Today there is a new blow, where we see that the government is coming with ever-increasing attacks on the districts and on the interests of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1463	Yes, the previous speaker could give the impression that today's legislation, which we have had for a long, long time, was in a way a success for both agriculture and forestry. He meant that it meant scattered construction and local ownership. In fact, it's a big challenge that so many curtains and use have been removed, and that one no longer lives there a real own garden. This is a development that has been going on for a long time, so it's high time to look at the legislation around this, because this code has not given us what we might have wanted. As mentioned earlier, agriculture has different support systems and customs protection, but the forest has completely different framework conditions, and so we may also need to have different framework conditions when it comes to owning a forest. The government has put forward a bioeconomic strategy, and later in the week we will discuss the industrial message. In general, when we discuss other industrial policies, both the Labour Party and the Centre are clear that the government is not ambitious enough, that we take too little of the development, and that we do too little. I have to say I'm a little surprised, because when we deal with both the planning and building laws and a number of other laws, it turns out that one just doesn't want to agree with the proposals that allow one to get more business and more industry to establish itself in the districts. There is evidence that there is a lot of rhetoric and little policy from the opposition when discussing practical policies to create more industry. The result of today's case is that the opposition is in a way helping to prevent both new industries and new jobs, and they are also not helping to secure existing industries and jobs. Drag us around and look at many forest plots, we see that the forest rots at the root, and we can't use the forest effectively. More people in this room today have been worried that if we let go of too much of the property restrictions, the price would go up. But it should show that when the willingness to pay is higher, one uses it as a buyer, in a better and more efficient way and creates added value both for itself and for society. I'm overconfident that if we set things straight more in the direction that both Norskog and the industry have taken on, we would also have been able to secure more innovation, more establishment and more activity in the districts, for the benefit of the community, for the benefit of the forest owners and for the benefit of the whole of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1474	Historically, the law of concession law has been the battle of the Left for the law of concession law and a strong law of ownership. Right has fight. Now we are in 2017, and the party is in debt to liberalise, and the Left has even submitted a proposal to abolish further liberalisation. I record that all the lots have expressed dissatisfaction with the way the Left has acted on this matter. So we have such an important case for treatment, with a bad preliminary work from the department's side, with a demanding setting to understand and a rather chaotic situation in the room now about how the parties will vote. In addition, we have experienced a government council that was in the pulpit and misinformed about the central party's attitude to the State Forest Hall. We have supported the government in the State Forest Hall, and the issue is not relevant to what Dale tried to avoid responding to, namely that the Progress Party's proposal to remove the concession law for the large majority of Norwegian forest ownership will open up to a significant foreign ownership of Norwegian forest. It refuses the council to take inwards and tries to get away. But there is no doubt that there is the consequences of the proposal submitted by the Right and the Advance Party. It's a proposal I understand, because the Right Party and the Advance Party don't want this law. But what I don't understand is that the Left – and to a certain extent, but not so much Christian People's Party – gives its support to securing the government's plurality. So I just want to use this post to encourage the representative from the Left and from the Christian People's Party, especially the Left: know a little bit about history, know a little bit about the center values. We have the tradition of modernising legislation, but we do it after a proper legal process. So my invitation to the Left and Christian People's Party is: Support the proposal No. 1 and 4, but vote against the other suggestions now. We cannot allow a law as important as the concession law to be the result of optional grip from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1483	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good and thorough consideration in this matter. This is a matter that we've been working on for a long time, and that has a lot of feelings associated with it. The divorce goes between those who want to detail their everyday lives, and those who think that most people know their own best. This is a very important day for Norwegian agriculture. The government received a clear order in connection with the treatment of the concession proposal we made last year, and is now responding well to the orders that came through the invitation proposals. Two of the main objectives of the agricultural policy are cost-effective food production and efficient operation, as has been seen in the management of the agricultural and forest notifications. We live in a tougher and more open market, which poses challenges, but also great opportunities. Therefore, I am pleased that the Storting has seen such good goals, even though we do not reach as far as I could have thought. Several of my political opponents had little faith in the future of Norwegian agriculture as the Progress Party took over the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in 2013. Now, almost four years later, we can say with the greatest confidence that all negative predictions did not become a reality, but result in progress and renewal. Agriculture produces food that never before, farmers have had an adventurous increase in income, and we get more full-time farmers. We also see good increases in the number of sheep farms. In addition, more people are applying for agriculture, while we have now become self-sufficient in lambs. The fasitator thus shows that Norwegian agriculture is doing well, and optimism is high in the sector. In order for agriculture to continue its good development, it is important that we politicians ensure that the industry has the framework conditions needed to achieve this objective. The party of progress has always been clear on strengthening the peasant's ownership, and it is so important. This is a fundamental right, and he will strengthen the peasant's right to free to dispose of his property. Therefore, I am pleased with the government's objective, which has taken this into account, and the work to reduce, among other things. bureaucracy and implementing a simplification of laws and rules in favour of greater freedom for the farmer. This is well received in the government's proposal for a proposal for a proposal, among other things. through proposals for amendments to the rules on concession obligations. After handling this matter, I think we have come up with a useful result. I'm very happy that there are now multiples in this room to raise the limit of the concession obligation from 25 to 35 decorates cultivated land. These are further measures for growth and development and can lead to more investment in agriculture. This industry is in demand, and now this liberalisation will put this into practice. It's a good day for agriculture today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1496	I fully agree with Mr Gundersen that this is an important debate in principle. The concession law regulates who is to purchase agricultural property. The concession system should ensure socially sound ownership, i.e. have a law that corrects market forces. Here, the Center Party and the Advance Party stand in full support of a tradition where one links ownership with property obligations. It's a sovereign system. It's a personal ownership of duties. Internationally, it's awesome. When we look at other countries, no one has such good experience, precisely because it gives responsibility to the owner, and that responsibility is what the authorities give, and says that within that framework is a welcome one. We thus ensure long-term ownership, because there are so many investments made in agriculture, where the return is well ahead of time. So it's a biological fact that underlies our legislation. We ensure from the Center Party a useful value for the areas, so that you can get a return on what you do. All the money doesn't go away to serve the capital. Through this system, we can also ensure – if we want – that those taking over agricultural property must have a minimum of experience and education in order to take that responsibility. If you take away the concession law and the personal obligations, everything I now say will be gone. It will also be possible to ensure an arrears that provide rational use structures. What the right is saying, completely untapped, is that it's the one that pays the most for a purchase of a property, that's going to take over. Done talking – nothing more to discuss! Do not conceal the debate that one should achieve them and those purposes! We don't guarantee that when we don't have any sort of correction of market forces. What's happening today is that a deep split left is undermining the concession law. The right hand side and the right hand side will not go beyond what the left hand side wants. The council is standing here talking like he's very satisfied. Obviously, the Council of State was to come further, because it says the Prom Party and the Right Program. That is why the Progress Party and the Right must be stopped at the next elections, so that they do not have a majority in order to implement their views. Finally, as the representative Storberget said, the core of this issue is not in property law; it is in profitability. It's in the profitability of agriculture, it's in the profitability of forestry, and I'm going to go into the next article. Interestingly, representatives of the government parties are not concerned with changing the profitability of Norwegian forestry. It is fatal when we see the consequences it has for the use of forests.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1507	In the event of an incursion in the setting, we do not support minority proposal No. 4th from the government parties. In our note, we support this proposal, which concerns the second paragraph of Section 4 of the Concession Act. This paragraph requires uninhabited individual premises which are exempt from concession building under Section 4, first paragraph, paragraph 4. 1 and 2, therefore, non-agricultural properties must be built within five years. This leads to disadvantages for many and unnecessary bureaucracy, and the Christian People's Party therefore supports removing this paragraph. The representative Gundersen makes a visit to the Christian People’s Party – but certainly also to me – in today’s nation, that the Christian People’s Party has chosen to ‘jump off its own order’. He then refers to the setting that we previously had on this matter. I am absolutely sure that the representative has read the settings carefully, and that the representative knows what is in this setting. I can quote: ‘The member of the Committee of the Christian People’s Party requests that the Government make an assessment of the possible consequences of excluding forest property from price control.’ We were all alone about this, but we have received an assessment – and we have assessed: I have read this proposition that we have received, I have used Saturday after Saturday, Sunday after Sunday. It looks like a drawing paper, this proposition. We have assessed, and we have come to this position. When I hear the representative from Farstad from the Left, he says that the removal of price controls on pure forest properties “will hopefully contribute to this”. So he's assessed, and we've landed on different points of view on this case. But let there be no doubt: the Christian People's Party is in charge of the forest, we're betting on bioeconomy, we're going to facilitate industrial growth in this area. But it would have helped if the government had followed its own government platform and also contributed to the changes in capital. Then the representative Pollestad has a greeting to the centermates – or the center friends. I like that. This is how the representative points out that the Christian People's Party has listened to the central values. We've looked at what's available from the government, and therefore we support very few of the changes that a liberalist government has made on the table of the Great Government in this matter, because they don't go along with the center values that this party stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1523	I have heard the word'mageplask' being used in the debate. Then there is reason to say that the vast majority of what is being presented gets its approval, as the Minister of Agriculture also said in the lines. Just so it's turned on. But we've also had a focus on the slightly more general, principled frameworks, and that's something completely different. I can actually conclude the debate by saying that on horrors District Norway will be built. It's amazing how the opposition doesn't deal with the challenge, and it's that we're sitting with a resource that could have been used for much more jobs, much more value-making, much more activity. It was partially strangled during the eight years of red-green rule. You're not dealing with that, but if you change the system a little bit, you're pulling up all of the world's scare propaganda. So it's a little bit interesting this with profitability, which Lundtegen is into. I agree with that. In agriculture, we use enormous resources to transfer state resources to support under-nourishment to try to slow down natural developments. We're not gonna make it. There's almost no coal on the curve over the decline in the number of uses, no matter how much money we inject into the industry, but we're using a lot of resources to maintain activity. In the forest, we leave the resource, because, as the Minister of Agriculture was also involved, we do not take the structural challenges seriously. We have to see from the statistics that there is hardly a real estate that anyone can live on. There's almost no real estate that any youth today will let their path choices be governed by. That's the real challenge. Then you have to start discussing how we're going to get at least an activity on the property market that starts the right processes. So to this with capital: that's not the problem today. Statskog's sales prove very well that it is the locals who buy, it is not the ones that come from outside. And if it was going to be a problem, what would it be like for them to place capital without requiring a return, and to exploit the property? Nothing! And then we'll have to discuss that problem – if it shows up. To conclude, I've met a lot of center parties that are very much for the concession law as long as you can buy cheap from the neighbor, but on the day they come and sell themselves, then the pipe spins, then you wonder why we have a code that makes you unable to get sold to the value you think the property has. There's some of the realities here. We're creating a debate in the local environments that's not good, to exploit the resources – and I'm going to keep talking about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1536	It has to be another time, because now is the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1541	It's not that if you repeat an untruth long enough, it becomes a truth. The representative of Omland was again up and criticised that the Board of Governors had been critical of the government’s production. The Board of Governors assessed the amendments proposed. The Board of Directors criticised that no change in the law was well enough investigated. Then the undersigned and the majority in this case dealt with Inner. 153 L for 2015–2016, we did not ask for an assessment or clarification of ‘no change’ – we asked for a change in the law. And it has been assessed in a very good way by the government, both through the assessments they have made themselves, and through the consultation rounds. The representative of Omland also said that a change to the concession law would have major consequences. Yes, it will have a major positive impact, because that is what the industry will have – positive consequences for forestry, among others. through increased turnover of forest assets, improved operational structure, major closures and increased performance. That's what the consequences are, and that's what the industry wants. And then it's true as it was said: the concession law alone is not the only solution, but it's at least a good step in the right direction. So the representative of Omland also says that this is a threat to widespread settlement and to the maintenance of use. Then I have to ask: where really is the representative Omland? Has he been outside this house? Has he been out in this country and seen all the abandoned uses that lie up in the eastern valley and elsewhere? He could not have been. I believe and believe and am absolutely certain that if we had made some more changes to the concession law, we would, among other things, it has helped us to have a different structure in agriculture, better development and better use of the resources currently available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1551	The left is for forest-related nutrient development. Forest is an important national resource. And we don't want to lean on everything to be like it's always been because it's always been like that. We want better use of the biomass that the forest represents. That's the driver for us in this case. Then I must strongly stress that changes must be knowledge-based. We have received criticism today because we are asking for it. It's anyone's free to criticize us for that, whether the time was right or not, but to us, knowledge of what we're doing now is absolutely central. That is why we have done what we have done with our proposals. I don't have the habit of talking down other parties, and I don't intend to do that now either. But I'm recording that the Center Party has either a touching outline of how it goes in the Left, or they think that the Left should be like this and like that. We are trying to take care of that ourselves – how the Left should act and how the Left's positions and values should be managed. But most importantly, if we're going to make changes, we're going to do it based on knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1560	It wasn't supposed to do the Center Party wrong and include them in my criticism of the Workers' Party when it applies to positions on the hall of State Forest property. But even for a training eye, it has become difficult to see differences between the Labour Party and the Center Party, even on this issue. Besides that, I think those who are criticising the Left for the process today should look at what the Left actually suggests. The left proposes to vote in favour of well-delivered government proposals. Secondly, there are the Left proposals for new distributions. I would characterize it as a defence procedure to vote in favour of well-proposed proposals and to vote in favour of the disposal of new things that may, after all, be thought to be too. So let's add a couple of other items around the procedure. That the minority in Stortinget is not satisfied with their own proceedings about a government proposal, gets up to Stortinget. But when the Christian People's Party signals that they are now clearly beginning to use the Sundays for work, it does indicate that at least the four cooperation parties take seriously that these are demanding matters, but matters one is forced to go into the substance of the background for, to make assessments of them. That recognition seems to me to be a little bit too small to have influenced the articles from the opposition. We are now doing the necessary modernisations, both for agriculture, for forestry and for people who want to have a family and want to live in the vicinity of the garden they come from, by segregated cabin space or empty or other proposals that give greater flexibility to the private landowner. But while Per Olaf Lundtigen no towers from the speaker's chair in familiar style, associated with challenges in forest nutrition and e.g. the proposal for a change in price control is a comprehensive forest industry for changes in price control. And do we think that a collective forest industry is about changes in price control in order to strike a blow for a liberal government, as the Center Party likes to present it as? Or do we believe that a combined forest industry is necessary for modernisation of the concession law and price control because they see that it can provide added value and jobs in the districts? It's been published lately. So it could have been that the opposition too would have been more likely to take over the reality of the industries themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1573	Agriculture lives and is therefore changing. What is the question, then, is how will we, as elected representatives, cultivate the plant that is called agriculture? What changes will we facilitate? What changes do we believe it is beneficial to ensure that the social mission of Norwegian agriculture for soil and forest is carried out in the best possible way? That's the base of what we're talking about here. The centre party is talking about, and everyone is talking positively about it, the seafaring farmer, the one who manages his land and his forest, the one who has a income from that work, so that he becomes interested in it, and thus can deliver his best and carry out the social mission. At the same time, we learn that the development of profitability in soil and forest is such that fewer and fewer people find it interesting to spend their valuable time there. More and more, time is spent on other profitable work. So we're going to have a situation where the farmers who are holding back feel more and more like the housekeepers under a system, a system that's curving you when you're trying to hang on, because the payment you're getting for work is not enough. Many people see it as natural that you can participate in the purchase of land in the vicinity of the soil and the forest you have. It facilitates the Center Party, because the property structures must to some extent keep up with what is economic development. Now we have a situation where property structures and economic conditions have changed so dramatically that very many only own and do not use. The Progress Party and the Right of the Dale Government Council are the biggest threat to the sea-lord holder. It's a historical fact. It's a fact today, and it's a fact that's well recognised by everyone who's working on soil. But those who own land and forests have other interests. This is the case in Norway, as it is in other countries, and that is when one comes to the main point: Norwegian society is based on a view of property rights where there are property rights and obligations — an exemplary system. The right hand side and the progress side do what they can to break up this system. They've come a little way now, but they don't reach their goal. They must not do that after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1584	The background to my taking the floor was the attack by the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen on my post, where I said that the changes in the concession law would have major consequences, and deepened it. Then the representative Ørsal Johansen said that one could not have come, because the industry wants this. I have to say that it must really be the representative of Ørsal Johansen who has not attended, because if you look at the hearings that came, and the hearing that was in connection with the matter, it was essentially a negative view from both the farmers' organisations and most of the municipalities that have taken note of this. When one then says that one wonders if I have been outside this house and seen what is the consequence of what has been done before, I have to say that if one opens this even more and removes the housing obligation for 70-80 pst. In the counties that I was in, it will really take off. I've seen that. I have been rapporteur for ten years, and one so very clear that housing was a good thing for District Norway to maintain settlements there. That's how Lundtägen went about: The concession law has helped to build up the self-ownership of the farmer, it's been good for 100 years. I also have to say that now there is a possibility that the capitalists will take over, and where there is no dwelling, no price control, foreign capital will also be involved in this. We don't deserve that. And that this will be an attack on the districts and will also lead to centralisation, I stand by safely.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1591	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1596	Let me stress that our criticism of the Left does not go along with the loose proposals, he insists that one does not know the consequences of the proposals for which a majority is guaranteed. Today's articles have not brought any additional clarity to it. It is also important that the Left does not support proposal No. 1, which is just about a thorough process to solve the challenges we have with the ownership structure. Governments are tired of seeing differences between the Labour Party and the Centre Party in the Chamber. Then I just want to encourage the state council to do what we do, to try to go to choices and form multiples together with parties that have a share in common with. It will make cooperation simpler, making policy solutions better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1603	The representative, Gunnar Gundersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1608	It's just for a simple explanation of vote. The right and the right will vote in favour of proposal No. 9 from the Left, and against proposal No. Eight. We see that when proposal No. 9 is adopted, it will actually include looking at the possibilities of such things as proposed in proposal No. Eight. So the right and the right are voting in favour of proposal No. 9 but not for proposal No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1615	It is interesting to follow the debate, and in particular the last of the Council's articles, in which he embraces the proposals of the Left. It is a sound process, which involves voting in favour of something that is properly investigated – as the Council of State said – but does not vote in favour of the Right and the Advance Party's proposal on forests up to 3000 deches. It makes me feel – and I have felt it throughout the debate – that the Council of State is not comfortable with the proposal that his own party has made, which affects large forest areas. I want to challenge the Council of State whether it is such that when it is right for the Left to demand this investigation, it is irresponsible for the Right and the Advance Party to do the opposite and bring it to voting. The second thing I want to address is – the representative Trellevik made me do it – the claim that those who vote against concessional amendments would be against the industrial development of Norwegian forestry. What kind of relationship is there in that? None, in my opinion. If you want industrial development, it doesn't depend on changing concession law. It has also been produced as amending the concession law and bringing in strong capital players – mostly non-residents – we bring capital to the processing stage. Do we? No, we're not really doing that. We bring capital to those who own it and who sell it – and who leave the industry. There is no guarantee that you have more capital to develop it all. And that's where our concern lies, that there are different types of interests than processing coming in. If large forest areas are bought up in my home district, in the Østerdalen, there is no guarantee that those owners will be industrial developers. Greater interest might have been in open air and hunting and more passive management. So this doesn't matter. The second thing was that the representative Gundersen was aware that today the forest is standing and rotting on the roots – it is not right, as far as I have understood, it is quite a lot of activity out there – but that changes will contribute to more activity in the real estate market. Is that what you want? Is it today the concession law that slows down people — especially families — sitting on the properties? No, Gunnar Gundersen, I and others know that it isn't. That's different considerations. These include: consideration of selling the property of the relatives, the unwillingness to contribute to the arrival of the relatives. That's why I think you should have seen a lot more active on a land change. Then there has been a great deal of concern about abandoned use in the Østerdalen. Will there be any light on those uses if you repeal the concession law? In my opinion, it won't be. Most of them are currently not subject to the concession law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1626	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1631	Sealord farmers are the centre party’s honorary mark. Everything we do is based on one having to honour it, because it makes sense for society. We are now discussing the law. We're discussing the concession law, which is supposed to ensure social property. Those who sit on properties today get a good price when they sell. That's not the reason why one did not sell. In the case of forestry, no more tiles have ever been exported from Norway to the rest of the world than during this period of government. It has gone so far that the main representative of the forest in the Right, the representative of Gundersen, is taking densies in the case of wolves, because it is obvious now that hunting elk soon means more too large forest areas than the revenue from forestry. I think that the representative, Mr Gundersen, should very soon also object to the economic policy of forestry, because that is the basis for achieving profitability in forestry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1639	We now hear in the debate that tradition has been important and that it is important to keep to the legislation that has been in place. But what are the realities of Norwegian agriculture? Furthermore, we believe that there is fear of foreign capital that is ready to buy. So the question is, where are they? Governments have done a lot of good for that problem — it's not there at all. And then there are capital forces that are ready to buy small farms. The reality today is that a number of small uses are empty, abandoned and forged, and are not used at all, instead of being able to get interested owners who further develop them and bid there – and bid in the districts. In all other economic activities, a market price for their resources is obtained, but not in agriculture. So you might ask yourself, why doesn't the agricultural market get a market price? Well, it's because the politicians are so busy detailing these resources that there's little or no interest, and where there's interest, make sure for another law that stops one from buying them. This prevents initial investment, innovation and new developments, and, in my view, it is one of the main problems in Norwegian agriculture. We need renewal, we need liberalisation, and we see that most people manage their own everyday lives and manage their own resources – if only they are allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1648	To the representative Knut Storberget: I think it is defensive to go as far as the Progress Party and the Right today suggest. I still think it is justified to go further in liberalising forest property legislation than the proposal does. What I said was that if the left is uncertain about what they want, at least it's legitimate to ask for an explanation of it. When one listens to the article by Knut Storberget, one can wonder: if more regulation is the answer to how to get value creation in Norwegian forestry, what is it that they can defend an area limit on agricultural property of 25 covers? Why is it not just 10? What makes the status quo always the best option for the Workers' Party? I don't understand it -- not even with my best skills. We know that of the investments made in soil improvement, for example: in agriculture, 80 pst. of the investments in the area of ownership, while we know that the farmer is becoming less and less self-ownership. This makes the crops go down. That means we don't keep up the earth as well as we could have done, because a good thing to invest in it as an owner, instead of a tenant. This will help a more harmonised regulatory framework to improve for many, and that means that what we are discussing today in sum, which I have been discussing several times before, is: are we going to do the necessary modernisation, or are we always going to believe that what was right yesterday is right tomorrow? The working party is about to go completely into the Center Party trap, after my change. The Labour Party has always been in favour of necessary reforms that have contributed to development. The working party has fueled it for decades, but now they are fully back in the reverse track and the stop track in which the Center Party is in. It seems to me that I am sorry for the possibility of developing new jobs in the districts. I am absolutely sure that when a whole forest industry asks for a reduction in price control – when several operators in forest industries ask for a more flexible concession law – it is not because they intend to salt down the money into a hunting right and a leisure home, but because forest industry knows that there are private landowners out there who will create values based on Norwegian resources. This has been the starting point for which the Storting has always been, but not all parties take the consequences of a vote today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1661	The representative Knut Storberget has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1666	As far as soundness of mind is concerned, I think it might have been fair for the Council of State to say to the demand for new investigations relating to the Forest proposals of the Right and the Advance Party, which came very late in the process, that it has been well investigated, it has been investigated so well that we believe that this should be the Stortinget's vote in favour. I think it is strange that you get into a situation where the fact that you are asking for an investigation from the Left is described as proper, and then in the same breath you have to promote that proposal for voting in the Stortinget. I think that's weird. The summary of this whole debate and process is that there have been significant allegations about how this type of legislation is being changed, and that is why the Workers' Party does not support this. The last red-green period, which is often much talked about, fully showed that we are willing to make changes, and changes were made, but not on such a basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1673	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1689	We can, of course, agree that the draft law we are discussing in this matter has not marked the political agenda over time. But it's an important law, which is about the security of our country, which, once again, means that there are many who have to deal with this law. There is also, then, a unanimous committee which supports the proposal for a new law prohibiting the admission or use of information on specified areas, displayable objects and soil conditions. The Committee also points out that the proposal is essentially a continuation of the prohibitions in the temporary law on the protection of spatial information. The new legislative proposal suggests that information on areas, objects and bottoms can only fall within the prohibition if the information can cause harm to the security of the state, the independence of the state or other vital national security interests. Except that protective objects can also be subject to the law, the proposal will therefore be an embellishment of today's law. In addition, rules are laid down which will clarify the framework for the prohibitions. The proposal is inter alia: justified by the desire to restrict information sharing to the extent that it is safe to do. The key in regulatory work will be to find a solution that balances the interests of civil society and the national need for secrecy. The Committee points out in its observations that the legislative proposal has been out of the question and notes that the hearing bodies have been divided and had partly conflicting views on the proposal. It is therefore appropriate to mention that in this respect the Committee has also noted that the Ministry has made clarifications in the final legislative proposal and its observations and has complied with the objections to the proposal. The Committee has also noted that the question of whether the scope of the law should include Svalbard, Jan Mayen and the bee countries wishes to be investigated by several central hearing bodies. The Committee supports the proposal for a further investigation but asks that the Stortinget be properly informed before any regulation on the application of the law to Svalbard, Jan Mayen and the coun tries is developed. Finally, I would like to point out that today’s law is a temporary law and is valid until 1 October 2017. For this reason, it is important to deal with this law today, so that after 1 October we also have a law to deal with the matter. On this basis, a unanimous committee concludes its opinion on the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1708	The government is proposing a new law on information about specified areas, displayable objects and soil conditions. The proposal substantially continues the prohibitions in the Temporary Act on the protection and control of spatial information in the interests of national security. At the same time, the government's legislative proposals in a number of areas will involve liberalisation and the decoration of the current ban. In addition, the government has proposed the establishment of a prohibition on the recording and use of information on specified display objects. The purpose of the law is to protect and exercise control over information that needs to be protected in the interests of national security and other vital national security interests. Where safe, the law shall also facilitate the use of such information for socially important purposes. I am pleased that a unanimous Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has joined the government's proposal for a new law. I have also noticed that the Committee has asked for the Stortinget to be briefed on whether the law will apply to Jan Mayen, Bouvet Island and Norwegian beeland in Antarctica. The Government will inform the Storting appropriately before such a regulation is adopted. Technological developments are progressing rapidly, and the ability to obtain, process and exploit information is increasing. This has a major impact on a number of socially important activities and offers new opportunities for the private sector. It's a desired development. At the same time, information that can be used for important societal and business purposes, also by foreign powers, would be in conflict with our national security interests. One example is detailed information on the bottoms of the Norwegian coast, which in a crisis situation could be of crucial importance in providing information to Norwegian military forces. The screening of this type of detailed information is essential to avoid that foreign powers can operate with high precision in Norwegian waters. The security policy situation has become more unpredictable and demanding. Today, we are facing a more complex risk and vulnerability picture. In this respect, I have noticed that the Committee has underlined the need to maintain a clear and defined ban on taking up and using information on bottom-up conditions that are deemed to be relevant to the security of the State. In the further regulatory work, the government will clarify the detailed framework for the prohibitions in the law. This work involves strict balances between partly conflicting considerations affecting a number of public and private actors. Provision will be made for maximum information to be used for societal purposes, unless this information does not harm national security interests. Kenneth Svendsen had taken over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1727	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1743	This is a matter which has been discussed several times by the Storting, both in the context of the Committee's proposals and through the submission of this proposal. It is the same representatives who put forward the proposal that are in the committee. I am not going to repeat the arguments that I have reviewed several times in the Chamber, but I would just like to refer to the major debates that have been held, and refer to what the proposals of the review committee of the EOS Committee are based on, and Innst. 146 S for 2016-2017, Innst. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposers propose that the EOS control directive be repealed and that the provisions of the instructions be integrated into the EOS control law. The proposals for material changes to the legislation are based mainly on the proposals of the Evaluation Committee, as set out in Documents 16 for 2015-2016. Some linguistic adaptations have been proposed in the legal text, without any changes in reality. And as I said when I presented the bill: in some areas, the proposal for a representative does not address changes proposed by the evaluation committee. It is highlighted and discussed in the debate and at the presentation, so I shall not repeat it here. But what I thought I would do was link some comments to the sample's inspection and transparency, since there's been a lot of discussion about it here. It has also been raised in consultation opinions to the Committee of the Departments, and it has been discussed in the press. Source protection is important to have an operational EOS service. That is why I perceive that the EOS Committee, the E-service and the PST take this equally seriously. And so does the Storting. So why is the Committee not in favour of the Ministry of Justice's proposal that particularly sensitive information in the PST should be excluded from control? Is it not natural to treat the PST and E services in the same way? Well, as the Committee sees it, it is difficult to call such an exercise a non-discrimination when it comes to two different services, two different missions, two different mandates, two different ways of facilitating control and not at least two different information management systems. In the consultation round, the EOS Committee also expressed its opinion. They wrote to the Supervisory Committee that the proposals of the Ministry of Justice and Defence have been a step backwards for the democratic control of the PST. This has also been highlighted in contributions from the head of the EOS Committee in the evening post. In its comments on the precautionary measures adopted by the Committee, the Committee considers that the EOS Committee complies with its controls. For the purpose of the verification, the identity of the source is entirely irrelevant. The control needs relate to completely different things than who the source is. That is why it is so important to maintain the possibility of control. The need for control concerns the need to record data on the related source. The need for control concerns the need to record negative information on the source itself. This concerns the need to store data on supervised persons that are not considered relevant for monitoring purposes but are stored in a source guidance system to manage the source guidance as a method. It concerns whether the source of the service crosses the illegal provocation limit and whether the source is in line with the internal procedures of the PST. In my time in the Control Committee, where I have been responsible for following up the EOS Committee, the annual reports have taught me that this control is something that PST and all the EOS services want to welcome, and they facilitate it. It's a nobility of our secret services. The internal legislation of the PST on sources has been graduated and, as sources, persons are considered to be hidden and in strict confidentiality reports on the activities of persons and groups. It follows from the proposal for Section 8 that the sample shall, as far as possible, take into account the protection of sources and the protection of data received from the rest of the world. It must be assumed that the sources of the PST, as opposed to the intelligence service, which is most likely to be Norwegian, and that the information collected will apply to the Nordics to a large extent. The Evaluation Committee suggests that the use of sources by the Intelligence Service appears well organised today for the monitoring of the use of sources by the EOS Committee. The selection may have full access to information from and about sources, with the exception of particularly sensitive information. The proposers point out that, following the evaluation committee’s view, the EOS Committee should have access to the information on the source of the PST, as reported in the SourceSys registry. The evaluation committee indicates that the reasons for the PST’s wish to keep information which may reveal the identity of the sources of the service, outside the scope of the EOS Committee, are generally linked to the risk that sources will stop sharing information with the service if it cannot provide the sources with an unconditional promise of anonymity. These are arguments put forward by the PST and presented by the evaluation committee. This has never happened. There has never been any indication that this has been the case, but there is a concern that the PST travels, and that the Minister of Justice has repeated several times, last in an article in the Evening Post on Saturday. In a letter to the Committee, the Minister for Justice and Security writes: ‘The law must ensure that the transparency of the EOS Committee does not prevent the access of services to important information. In order to ensure access to information from human sources, it is essential that the sources of services can rely on the fact that their identity cannot become known to unauthorised persons. If sources cannot trust it, the access of services to information from individuals will be very unfortunate. [[...]] Without security of sources, services will not be able to carry out the societal mission.’ No one disagrees with this. Source protection is as important in the PST as in the E service. But it is the service itself that has not found to be able to facilitate the system so that the EOS Committee can access information about the sources of services without getting to know their identity, and it is the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that it is prioritised. When it comes to the issue of the right of access to information of the intelligence service, the proposers refer to the Innst. 146 S for 2016-2017, as follows: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the member of the Socialist Left Party, considers that the restriction of the transparency of ‘special sensitive information’ must be resolved either by granting access to a single EOS selection or by maintaining the current regime, based on the 1999 decision of the Storting. The majority believe that the current system of unupgraded transparent criteria for which parts of the intelligence service activities other than ongoing democratic control should be continued.’;» It is a unanimous committee that reproduces this. The Socialist Left Party is the only ones outside the comment. Proposals indicate that the Ministry of Defence approved in 2014 the following classified definition of ‘especially sensitive information’. It's important to be clear, especially when we're talking about particularly sensitive information within two different types of services. The particularly sensitive information in the E service is about: the identity of the human sources of the E service and foreign partners; the identity of the specially protected officials of foreign partners; persons and operational plans in the holding standby; Special sensitivity of e-services and/or foreign partners to foreign operations such as compromise seriously damage the relationship to foreign power due to the political risk of the operation; or may cause serious injury or loss of life to its own personnel or third parties; The exemption does not limit the transparency of information on and from Norwegian and foreign sources in general by the EOS Committee. As a general rule, the sample is given access to such information in such a way that the identity of the sources is anonymous by giving each source a unique number, or otherwise. In some cases, such anonymisation would not be sufficient to conceal the identity of the source, for example: because other information about the source or the contact of the service with him would be suitable for revealing the identity. If, in such cases, the identity of the source is considered to be particularly sensitive, the information on and from the source will be totally excluded, subject to the above-mentioned derogation. Source protection is essential for an operational service and the Committee is committed to ensuring it. Another reason why we are concerned with maintaining the current system is that the checks carried out by the EOS Committee against the PST have proved necessary. They have led to important changes that have provided a safer service and that have given better control. We welcome that. A unanimous committee, all the parties to the committee, is of the opinion that the protection of sources is currently functioning as intended. Sources cooperating with the PST and with those on mission for the Intelligence Service may be confident that their identity is well protected. That is why I think it is problematic when the Minister of Justice, in his hearing opinion, implies that it is not necessarily safe to do so. He also writes that in the Evening Post. I think it is problematic when the Minister of Justice himself is questioning the source protection of the PST. That's where the problem lies. In the Ministry of Justice and Defence's proposal for legislative change, it appears that the intention of the proposal is that the identity of human sources in the PST should not be available to the EOS Committee. But it is not today, and there is no wish for that information either. The democratic control of the use of sources concerns the use of methods and the reason for registration. It's not about identity. A unanimous committee indicates that it is the responsibility of the Council of State to enable the services to carry out their functions in a manner which makes it available for control, while at the same time ensuring the protection of sources. Therefore, it is a unanimous committee asking for priority to be given to this work and for the PST register to be set up in such a way that the verification of methodology can be carried out without revealing identity. It is a unanimous and collective committee that is of the opinion that today's right of access works as intended, in order to provide for the protection of sources and the need to monitor the use of methods, and we want to maintain it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1818	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this matter and thank the Committee for a good cooperation on a very important matter, which concerns the confidence of the citizens in the secret services. Every country has its so-called secret services, which are created to provide the nation's, i.e. the interests of the inhabitants in identifying planned actions which would adversely affect the country and its inhabitants. In most countries, it is assumed that these services operate under clearly agreed jurisdictions for their activities, through law, regulation and instruction. In order for the secret services to have sufficient legitimacy in the population and in the legislators, i.e. The size of our country needs to find ways to control whether the services operate in a manner compatible with what was the intention of the legislators at the time the law was passed. In our country, we have established a popular intelligence and security committee, EOS, which has the task of controlling the secret services, and it has worked in its current form for over 20 years. The evaluation committee, which has evaluated the EOS sample, found that overall the sample had functioned according to the purpose of setting up the sample, and this is very reassuring. Some minor adjustments have been proposed by the evaluation committee, some of which have been passed on by the Storting, including collecting laws and instructions in the same document. This change, based on the proposal for a representative, is now the subject of a proposal from the members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. In the case of the intelligence and security committee's action rooms to follow compliance with the law on the part of the secret services, this must be large enough to ensure that a reliable control of the services is exercised and any negative findings corrected. On the other hand, services need to ensure that control activities are carried out in such a way that sensitive information in particular is not compromised, and this includes talking. on the identity of intelligence sources, names of foreign partners, etc. It is important that sources on which the various services are based continue to have confidence in the classified services concerned. If there is information from which the EOS Committee has been screened and if there are any inconsistencies, the EOS Committee may bring this type of question to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and Defence respectively and, ultimately, to the Storting. The Progress Party believes that the Law with the Preprocessor maintains the balance of the above considerations in a good way, and the Progress Party supports the present position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1835	Let me begin by saying that the attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee on Changes to the Laws of the EOS Control Act has a number of good and important proposals that I support. These amendments will provide the EOS Committee with a better legal basis for its important societal task, and it will provide the EOS service with better opportunities for learning and improvement and better predictability and clarity for citizens. However, there is one provision which, for both prima facie and factual reasons, should have content different from that proposed. The fourth paragraph of Section 8 concerns access to specific sensitive information by the EOS Committee. This provision must include both the sources of the Intelligence Service and the PST so that they are given the same protection. I would like to make it clear that this does not mean a tightening of current PST practices. The suspension proposal implies confirmation by the Stortinget of the protection of the specific sensitive sources of the intelligence service, in accordance with current practice. The protection of PST's sensitive sources, following the proposal in the vote, will remain unclear. This discrimination is not factual. In the 2016 Annual Report, the EOS Committee points out that transparency issues ‘have been a theme between the sample and the PST in 2016’. ambiguity and disagreement do not contribute to a good cooperation climate in control work. The sensitive human sources of the PST have as great a legitimate need for protection as the sensitive sources of the Intelligence Service. In the years following the downgrading of the intelligence service system in 1999, the PST has taken the view that the scheme should also apply to the protection of PST sources, as they have the same consideration as it does to them. As the EOS Committee refers to in the 2016 annual report, in recent years the sample has sought access to the source meeting reports, which they have not had in the past. In line with its general wish to provide the EOS Committee with the best possible basis for its control activities, the PST has provided the sample with access to the request, but after the removal of identifying information. The proposers of the proposal ‘will point out that a prerequisite for giving the EOS Committee access to the PST source data register is that it will be practicable and sound in the interests of the protection of sources’. This recognition of the need for source protection must lead to legislative and security protection also for PST sources. The EOS Committee, in its last annual report, expresses its satisfaction with the organisation of the information service for the transparency and control of the sample. PST will ensure at least equivalent access for the PST sample. I would like to remind you that the proposers point out that the Intelligence Service places the particular sensitive information entirely outside the scope of the EOS Committee. The sample therefore has no knowledge of the existence of the information. However, in the PST, the information is contained in SourceSys, the PST data system for the processing of data from sources, and the sample is currently provided with information about its location. The sample may then ask to see the information content, and they will receive it after the identification information has been removed. Nothing other than this changes until the sample sees the reports. In the 2016 Annual Report, the EOS Committee shows the increased transparency of the PST in 2015, that they have gained transparency in the form of anonymised samples in SourceSys, and that in 2016 they have worked to gain even better transparency, in the form of access to access to the system itself. So, as I said at the outset, it's not like the Minister of Defense and my bill are tightening up the transparency of the selection of the PST. However, if the Storting joins the sample’s view, the PST will no longer be able to clear the reports for identifying information before the Secretariat and the sample reads them. This poses an unacceptable risk of identity becoming known. In the PST, there are only a few who have access to the source meeting reports, simply because experience suggests that the more people who know, the greater the danger that the source's identity may come out. It poses a real risk to the life and health of these sources. For ethical reasons, the PST cannot use a source if it endangers life and health for sources itself, for family members or for others. In PST, only the few informants have a special need for protection called sources. All the others are called contacts, and for them, the EOS Committee has full access. Thus, when giving the source status to each individual, it has been assessed that it would be important if they were to provide PST information. It is inherent that those persons who have relevant information for the PST have access to environments that do not want the PST to know about them or their tasks. We know that these environments can be very dangerous. Of course, the sources themselves will also be more restrained or withdrawn when the PST can less guarantee anonymity. It will have a significant negative impact on the ability of the service to carry out its societal mission. The PST depends on the information to implement prevention, investigation and government-enforcement measures. If access to source information is weakened, we will have to accept that the PST will be less able to solve the societal challenge. There is simply no way to ensure good enough intelligence without the information from sources. Therefore, I hope that the PST will be able to provide reassuring protection to its sources in the future as well. We need all the information they can provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1858	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1863	Anonymity must be guaranteed. That's why we have computer systems or other systems that can be developed in such a way that the identity of the source – which is not the basis for control – can be removed from the parts that are the basis for control. I would like to ask the Council of State to comment that the head of the EOS Committee writes that the proposals of the Ministry of Justice and Defence are a step backwards for the democratic control of the PST. I think that should worry the Council of State that he alone is a tabloid bearer of. No other parties – not the Right, not the Progress Party – at Stortinget agree with the Minister of Justice. He is standing alone against the EOS Committee and the control committee on this issue, and I need his comments that his proposal is a step backwards for the democratic control of the PST.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1870	I do not intend to comment on the statement to which the representative refers. But I want to stress the importance of having good rules, which give the source a good protection. Unfortunately, I perceive that a step back is taken if you adopt the changes in the law that are on the table today, precisely because you have practiced according to the logic that the E-service has done in the past, and thus have been able to maintain the identity of the source to a greater extent. There is information that is of the nature that yes, you do not know the name of the person, you do not know the identity of the person – it has been replaced by a number – but other information related to the case can help clarify which person is involved. Then we need the same kind of protection for the PST as for the E-service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1879	I note that the Council of State will not attach any comments to the opinion of the Chairman of the EOS Committee. It surprises me. I need an explanation from the Minister of Justice. In my post I referred: What is the basis for control? What is it that is controlled? It's not the identity of the sources, that's why they're being checked, why the information is being stored. This is an important control, which is needed to maintain confidence in the secret services. Does the Council of State not consider that control to be important? And does the Council of State not believe that it is his responsibility to enable both the PST and the EOS committees to have the type of ongoing control, which means that we have such robust secret services in this country – and have such strong confidence in them?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1886	I am very concerned that the EOS Committee can carry out its important mandate. I believe that the proposals that came from me and the Ministry of Justice and Defence will, to the greatest extent, take account of the considerations to which the representative refers, namely a good balance between the protection of sources on the one hand and – on the other hand – facilitating the operation of the EOS Committee. There's no contradiction here. But you have chosen to go into a solution that monitors the e-service in particular, but does not give the same source protection to PST. I'm sorry about that. I don't think that's a good solution. I hope you can take a closer look at it, because here you go into solutions that can help to weaken the PST in their important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1893	I almost want to ask if the Minister of Justice does not believe that there is a difference in mandate and mandate between the E-service and the PST. That's it. There's also a difference between where they work and what types of sources they have. It is inextricably described in the evaluation committee's report, and that is why they do not propose what the Minister of Justice proposes. I need to ask a follow-up question. Is there any particular reason why the Minister of Justice will not add any comments to the opinion of the Chairman of the EOS Committee when she says that the Justice and Defence Department's proposal is a step backwards for the democratic control of the PST?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1900	I am concerned that we should have good rules, which respect the important mandate and important work of the EOS Committee, and that at the same time we have a good code, which enables both the E service and the PST to carry out their work in a good way. I see it as taking a step back with the proposals that are on the table today, and I would warn against contributing to a worse source protection for the E service than for the PST. At the same time, I would like to stress that in some situations there may actually be a greater need for source protection for the PST than it may be for the E service. At least there is no reason to say that the PST should be somewhat less in need of it than the E-service. Yes, it is a different mandate. Yes, you relate to your country and abroad. But the need for life and health of the source must be brought to the fore.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1908	I want to ask: does the minister always come back to this with source protection, I have a lot of respect for that, but does he have any examples that the EOS Committee has ever carried out a check in the PST – in some records of some people – where the information that the EOS Committee controls has come out? It almost seems like the way he argues here, and it's very serious. I also want to add that I very much want the Minister to clarify whether he thinks democratic control is important, because it does not appear that it is so very important to him today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1915	I have repeated several times that the controls carried out by the EOS Committee are extremely important. At the same time, when the representative points out that it has not been done that type of miscarriage before, it is not in any way my intention to suspect the members of the EOS Committee – just as I believe it is not the intention of the Committee and the representative to suspect the members of the EOS Committee as regards the E Service. I'm taking the same thing into account when it comes to PST. The fact that we have a good regulatory framework, which respects the protection of sources – regardless of whether the representative suspects my intentions with regard to members of the EOS Committee, I would have asked for that – is important. It is important that we have good rules, a code that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1922	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1927	It was not really my intention to take the floor in the debate, but we are experiencing this very special situation that our Minister of Justice and Defence is very uncomfortable, obviously, with an overall increase in the perception of how these control activities should be organised. I think that's unfortunate, and I'll call it serious. I look at the body language of the Council of State that he is not comfortable with the statement that it is «serious», but that is, of course, because it is about so sensitive and important issues that concern so many people. In its article, the Council of State uses the term ‘step back’ to allow it to reset the services. The services have been very good, they have worked very well. There are no examples that this has gone wrong in any way, and it was confirmed by the line change we have now heard. I keep this brief, but precise, post, because I want to hear that the Council of State says to the Storting before we go to voting later today, that he will ensure that it is loyalty to the decision that the Storting is making for the services that he is responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1934	It is obvious that on behalf of the government I will loyally follow the decisions of the Stortinget today. I think that is unnecessary to comment on. But at the same time, I find that if the proposals that were submitted by me to the committee had been based, they would also have taken care of the PST, in line with the E-service. What is on the table today means that the source protection for PST is getting worse than it is for the E-service. I don't think that's a good solution. I hope you will take a closer look at it and assess it when you go to voting. I cannot help but understand that the proposals we made to the Committee had taken good care of all these considerations, which you would like to ensure – on the one hand, good control through the EOS Committee and, on the other hand, that you have a good source of protection. There is nothing to suggest that the control of the methodology would have been worse if one were also able to remove the type of information from the reports that I am asking for. Then it is that once the committee – and the rapporteur – have done this work, there has been a rather limited consultation process. The Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Ministry of Defence and, of course, the EOS Committee have been allocated. No more have taken part in this hearing. As I understand it, it does not contribute to the inclusion of constructive ideas that might be necessary in an important matter like this, the Committee is involved. I may not think that is a citizen for very good proceedings either. I perceive that the process is an important part of what Storting has discussed before today, and probably for several of the issues on the map that lie ahead of us, which we are also going to discuss. It is then important that, when committees wish to make changes to the law, they make sure to hear other parties who can contribute to clarifying information, provide constructive input. That is why I would like to question the procedure that the rapporteur has done in this matter – whether it is necessarily a citizen of good solutions that properly perform the important role of the PST.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1945	After all, I received a reply from the Minister in reply that I was not going to get an answer, but I take the floor to his criticism of the process. It is fine that the Council of State is concerned with the work of the Storting, but this has been a thorough work. These proposals are based on proposals from the review committee of the EOS Committee. They've done a good and conscientious job. It is also a basis for debates in Stortinget. We have had a hearing, we have had this draft representative, which the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence responded to. We also received a letter from the PST that was amazingly similar to the feedback we received from the Ministry of Justice and Defence, and we received a letter from the EOS Committee. But I have to say that it's not that a process leads to a unanimous downgrading where government parties also disagree with what the Council of State thinks, means that it's a bad process. That might mean that it was a bad suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1952	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1968	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1984	I thank the Cooperation Committee on this matter, which deals with changes to the Police Register Act in order to implement EU Directive 2016/680. There is a joint committee which gives its opinion on the matter. This Directive regulates the processing of personal data by police and prosecution authorities for criminal purposes and the processing of personal data in the framework of police cooperation and other judicial cooperation in criminal matters. The Directive does not entail substantial substantive changes in the Law on the Registration of Police. The amendments proposed mainly focus on clarifications and additions or are related to procedural rules. The greatest difference is the scope. While the rules previously applied to the exchange of personal data between countries, the Directive also applies to the national processing of data. Norway has already implemented this mainly in its legislation. Following the proposal, further clarifications of existing definitions will be added to the legislative text. At the same time, some new definitions are added, including: on biometric personal data. It is also proposed to distinguish between different categories of persons when processing personal data in criminal matters. The provision on the provision of data to the rest of the world adds that conditions for the supply of data to countries which have not implemented the Directive are laid down in the Regulation. It is also proposed that the data subject should be able to sue the Data Protection Supervisor, the controller and the processor without prejudice to any other administrative appeal procedures. Furthermore, a number of minor changes are proposed to the Archive Act, the Police Act and the Criminal Procedure Act and the correction of an error in the Criminal Code that is not linked to the implementation of the Directive. It is proposed, inter alia: the requirement to provide police attestations for staff members of the supervisory authority is made mandatory.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e1995	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2012	The changes are largely of a legal nature. There is not so much policy in the laws themselves, and it has not been the biggest debate in the committee, but let me relate a few words to what a unanimous committee is proposing to amend the law. These amendments harmonise the rules on passport and national ID card issuance, which are planned to be introduced during 2018. The proposed changes are also an adaptation to the introduction of new systems and procedures for issuing passports and national ID cards. I'm glad we're about to get national ID cards in place, and these changes are necessary to prepare for the implementation of national ID cards. In particular, there is a need for more flexible rules that provide more room for regulation through regulation. The applicable rules on the period of validity of the passport and the amount of the passport fee are therefore proposed to be replaced by statutory homes, in accordance with the ID card law. The Government's proposed changes to the passport law continue in all respects the law in force, but, like the ID card law, § 11 facilitates the disclosure of data from the passport register when necessary to verify a passport or the identity of the holder. The government also proposes an addition to both the ID card law and the passport law that facilitates the systematic communication of information to the public register about who has been issued passports or national ID cards. In the Committee's position, there is also a comment from the Centre Party, which points out that it is important when the passport fee is to be included in the regulation, that it does not become ‘unreasonable’ high – I think that is the term used in the comment. Now, a total increase over several years has been concerned that fees are to a large extent fixed in line with self-cost, and I believe that this is something that the government and, if necessary, future governments will also generally apply in relation to the type of fees, so that it should not be unduly high. With this I recommend a unanimous setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2027	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2043	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2052	The Norwegian penal system is one of the mildest in the world. It has a lot of nice sides, and then it has some less beautiful sides. One of the challenges of our system is that, in some cases, there is room for very large penalties. In particular, this is the case in the case of repeated gross impairments of integrity. If you kill one person, the maximum penalty is 21 years. If you kill two or three or five or ten, the theoretical maximum sentence is still 21 years in prison. Fortunately, we have custody of the most cruel acts, the problem of the system lies in the grey zone between the ordinary 21-year sentences and the detention penalty. This is what the proposal addresses here. Our system today is simply not good enough to capture these cases. It can be seen that crimes are not reflected in the punishment, that they do not have a consequence. The solution proposed by the government is simple and good. We want to maintain the 21-year maximum penalty for killing or serious integrity violations, but we believe that several such acts should have a slightly higher penalty framework – not much, but it should be possible to reflect the fact that a serious act has been committed several times. It's so simple, so logical -- it's just about making our system a little bit fairer. Then comes a very significant point that I think some have forgotten in the debate that has been. Increasing the maximum penalty for repeated acts is something we are already doing today, but we are doing it primarily for crimes with the lower penalties. To take an example, theft is punished by two years. If several thefts are committed at once, the maximum penalty will be four years. That way, we double the penalties, but never beyond six years. It's a good system, and it's a logical system. But why can't we do this every day for the most serious crimes that go up to the 21st anniversary? It almost seems as if the 21st anniversary limit is a kind of sacred thing that you don't want to change in Norwegian criminal law, but there's nothing in principle in the way of extending the maximum penalty a little for more crimes that have a 21-year penalty framework. So we know that there has been predictable opposition to the proposal. Several of those who are voiced against are the same forces that want not only the same punishment that we have today, but also considerably lower penalties than what we have today. There are also many of the same cancers that thought it was unfortunate that victims and survivors were given a role in our legal system, among other things. in the introduction of aid lawyers, the same forces that announced that it would be the end of the legal system that we knew, but I think things have gone quite well anyway. It is important to remember that we punish primarily for the perpetrator. But there's no doubt that we're actually doing it a little for the sake of the victim and they're also leaving. Those who persistently claim otherwise should wake up to the political reality – this is a real reason, which I know is behind the desire to punish, both on the right and the left. I see that there is nothing wrong with us as Norwegian politicians being involved in developing and deepening the grounds for punishment. It's not written in stone by legal theorists, it's also a teaching developed in this hall. It's not just something you can research. As elected representatives, we also have a responsibility. Indeed, a human criminal justice institution must, in my view, also take care of the victim and the survivors. They may never get the sense of freedom back. Giving them soul peace for a few years extra matters. That they should not be anxious to meet a perpetrator they fear is important – it has a value. Values are not sensory, and this proposal does not reverse the legal system that we know, as someone has claimed. The Labour Party's own Minister of Justice Knut Storberget said in 2008: ‘Strengthening the rights of the offended and the deceased is central to maintaining trust in the judicial system.’ That is an opinion that I fully agree with. It's just so sad that the Workers' Party today cannot follow up on the intention of its former Minister of Justice. Otherwise, I want to address the suggestions we are on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2078	The representative Peter Christian Frølich has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2083	Let me make a statement right away: the working party is to look at the level of penalties for serious integrity violations. We share the sincere commitment of victims and relatives in this matter. That is exactly why we believe that the matter must be dealt with properly and properly. We want to be sure that any new level of penalties will be as fair as possible. We also want such an important fundamental change to have a broad disintegration and to be able to last over time. Let me make the second conclusion from the Workers' Party right away: we will give our support to the part of the proposition that deals with enhanced protection against abuses committed by several in common. Then I would also like to take the opportunity to correct an incursion in the review of the Workers' Party's proposal, page 7 and page 9 of the vote. It shall state ‘integrity impairment’ and not ‘identity impairment’. The treatment of the part of the proposition on increased penalties is a good illustration of how to not control a country. The treatment of this matter by the Right Party and the Advance Party appears to be a purely electoral campaign. The Labour Party will not turn the Norwegian penal system into a ping-pongarena where levels of punishment and criminal responses are changing in fast-moving and back and forth as instruments in party election strategies. It's an irresponsible way to control a country's criminal policy. And every time the representative Frülich desperately points out that the Workers' Party stops the matter, the more sure I am of the irresponsible in this. Right should take on the fact that they are alone, with only the Advance Party on their team, and I understand that. The right-wing Party government believes this is incredibly important to do now, but this is terrible political pre-work and craftsmanship. No other parties in Stortinget support expressive treatment at the tamp of the period. Four years they've been doing it really. They therefore had to know that they did not get a majority for this, until they sent the matter to Stortinget. Still, they're getting on. I would like to point out in particular three aspects that show the irresponsibility. First of all, the Storting is not a sand striker for the government. The grandma is the legislator. The Minister of Justice and Frölich claims that the matter has been thoroughly heard. The Storting has not heard a matter until it has come to Stortinget. Secondly, the matter that was heard in the department is not what we are dealing with today. It has changed a lot, as confirmed by the Minister of Justice. You can ask questions about whether the case that has been sent to Stortinget has actually been heard before it came to Stortinget. Thirdly, urgent procedure is not necessary. For no specific reason, the Right Party and the Progressive Party have carried out urgent proceedings in the Committee and in the Presidency. It is not the way a responsible government controls a country. So to the argument that this is about values. The Labour Party has proposed and adopted more severe penalties for serious crimes such as rape and assault following thorough investigations of which moral and ethical values and conflicting considerations have been explained, and in particular the proposals have been discussed on the basis of available knowledge and the purpose of the change in penalties. The laws of the country are a kind of social contract between the inhabitants and the state based on the principles of legal certainty, non-discrimination, fairness and predictability. These values and this tradition have prevailed over time, as the penal snipers of the previous government suggested, also have. When the Workers' Party wants to change, we will ensure lasting changes. It's also for the benefit of the victim. St.meld. No 37 for 2007-2008, Penalty that works, has broad political support. It can be seen that social security concerns should have an impact on criminal policy: ‘It is the government’s responsibility to stick to the basic principles and not abandon the knowledge-based policy, even if the reactions in some cases may be strong. [[...]] The goal is not primitive revenge, but punishment that works – which reduces the likelihood of new crimes.’ In this case, the government parties have set aside objectives and knowledge-based bases. Right is no longer a knowledge party. The working party will have knowledge and purpose in discussions on this matter. Several heavy hearing bodies, including: The State Attorney and the Supreme Court, and several who attended the hearing in Stortinget, pointed out that the case was unwarrantedly poorly discussed. In the media as well as in letters to the Committee, criticism of the absence of discussion of the legislative proposal has also emerged. I thought the Right Party and the Advance Party that the matter was as important as they say, the matter had been settled, not the political game. The Labour Party is promoting its own proposal, with the amendments I presented initially on the matter. I will take our proposal into account in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2116	The representative of Kari Henriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2121	It is quite gratifying to hear a debate of the kind we have just begun, not least to hear the representative Kari Henriksen draw up to the great heights of the motives of the Progress Party and the Right. I think you should be very careful about that, because we're actually able to define it ourselves -- we don't need the Workers' Party's help with that. And if that's the way to be the new focus, I could mention up to several former Labour Party representatives who from this pulpit have stood and highlighted their own excellence and talked about increased punishments, but who have not done so afterwards – neither as state councillors nor as members of the Stortinget. So if there's blame sharing the representative Henriksen is after, she gets her own list of her own first, then we can take the principles afterwards. That being said, I think there have been many things that have happened in this period that have been good. I am very pleased that we have lifted the limitation period for the most serious criminal acts. There I thought Stortinget and the committee did an excellent job. To me, it was a milestone that did something about the fundamentals of our system. We're doing that in terms of today, too, not least in terms of the part of the proposition that is about compensation. It is not reasonable for a victim to be curtailed by the sharing of liability between those responsible for having committed a lien against someone. At my discretion, it is totally unreasonable. It is a paradox – at least after listening to the previous speaker – that nothing has been done about this before. The possibility has been present. The Labour Party has had the Minister of Justice for many, many years and to those degrees has had the opportunity to do something about it. But then you talk without delivering. Today you do something about it. You get Stortinget on it. I think we should be proud of that, and then of course we can disagree on the rest in terms of punishment, punishment and the length of punishment. I see that, among other things, The working party in one of its comments refers to Professor Mads Andenæs, who says that what has been done is judged to be justifiable. It's probably like the only ones who can define the integrity of the Storting, at last, are Supreme Court. When the Supreme Court concludes that the legislator has not done his job, one might say that you may not have been within the proper area. Fortunately, it doesn't happen often, but it happens sometimes, and I even think that the Workers' Party has experienced getting them against it in some cases in the Supreme Court, on a single level, because obviously you didn't have a good enough legal foundation. One must say that the Party of Advancement and the Right is not sound, but then one may have to take a mirror when going to the pulpit of the Stortinge and assigning blame to others. So for punishment and punishment: today, the minority proposes an increase of approx. 20 pst. One of the motives for that is, of course, to give a better professionalism with regard to the distortions that have been committed. Of course, if you commit one or two or three murders – as the rapporteur was in the Chamber – if you are not sentenced to custody, you have a thank-you today. So you can say from a value point of view that the roof is high enough. I respect that, but I disagree. That is why, of course, I support the proposal that the government has put forward, namely an increase of approx. 20 pst. I also record that the Stine Sofies Foundation has been running a signature campaign. Of course you could say that we are approaching 5 million people in this country, and that about. 20,000 signatures aren't much. But in a short time, I think there's respect for the job that the Stine Sofie Foundation has done, because they take social responsibility. From their point of view – as a victim of extreme crime against the most vulnerable – they take their stand and say that this is unacceptable; we believe, from our point of view, that the Storting should increase the penalties. But the majority say no, the Stine Sofies Foundation doesn't have a clue, we can't go that way – we're going to evaluate it, but we're not going to do anything about it right now. It would have been tempting to say that the majority of the Judicial Committee today does not support victims of crime, but supports the perpetrators by holding back in terms of criminal investigations. So you could say that it's also a basis of value, and it obviously has to be, because our position is the fundamental opposite. Those who commit the most serious acts must be punished most. There is no reason why perpetrators who commit murder or other extremely violent crime should have a curtailment of their punishment. So we can do a discussion: is 26 the right thing? Is 30 the right thing? Is 50 the right thing? I still have, after twelve years in the Judicial Committee, the pleasure of hearing someone from this pulpit propose American states of 100, 200, or 300 years. Fortunately, we didn't get there, and there's no reason why we're going that way. But to discuss the ceiling, I believe that we are obliged to do, not least for the sake of the victims of the worst crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2140	The issue we are dealing with today is very complex. It is about the strongest intervention that we as legislators can impose on our citizens, namely the lifting of the penal framework from 21 to 26 years for serious privacy violations. I will honestly admit that this has been a very demanding matter. I did not want it to be dealt with before the summer, because I believe that such a case in principle deserves more thorough treatment. I believe it was too short a time to be able to handle it properly. We have stated that we do not support the government's proposals, but the Christian People's Party is not opposed to the proposal either. That is why I do not reject the fact that the Christian People's Party can support a similar proposal later, and that is why we believe that the best thing would have been to deal with this proposition properly for the autumn, but that was not the case. During this period I have worked a lot with violence and abuse against children. It affects me that so many children and young people are being seriously assaulted in Norway today. One in seven children is subjected to serious violence and abuse. It's unsustainable, and we have to do what we can to prevent, detect and combat this serious crime in a much better way than what we do today. Raising the level of penalties, which we are discussing today, is not necessarily the most important measure to prevent such abuses in a better way, but it is important to ensure that the level of penalties is met, based on both general and individual prevention considerations. In addition, it is important that we, as politicians, ensure that the level of the penalty framework that we set is consistent with the general sense of justice. In this case, some of the purpose of the punishment is shifted from being of a preventive nature to being more based on what can be considered fair to the offended/injured. I can sympathize with this understanding, but the Christian People's Party was therefore not ready for a change in the historical law and to change the purpose of punishment after a few weeks of comitology. In addition, I believe that the level of penalties should be further investigated in the event of serious integrity violations, from where they are currently located, and the consequences of such an increase. In his reply to the government, the Advocate General said the following: ‘In any case, legislative initiatives should be based on a much more detailed analysis of both the actual level of criminality and the consequences of different measures than those in the consultation note.’ The Advocate General also points out: ‘The overall impression is that the Public Prosecutor’s Corps considers that, in general, the criminal framework allows for the imposition of the criminal charge deemed appropriate in each case.’ I can't see that the proposition government put forward, made this visible in a good way. The need to increase it and the level and specific types of criminal offences to which it should be raised have not been discussed in detail. The Christian People's Party has therefore chosen that we do not now support proposals to raise the penalties to 26 years. But the Riksadvokat further points out: ‘Another issue is whether the criminal prosecution practices of the courts take sufficient account of the fact that more criminal offences are being judged at the same time. At this point, there appears to be different perceptions and shades of state attorneys, both in terms of basic attitude and in terms of whether and how legislative teams should provide detailed guidance.’ It may argue that there is a basis for reviewing whether, in cases of competition, the assessment provided for by the Court of Justice in the event of serious infringements of integrity should be as it should be. The Christian People's Party has therefore chosen to promote its own proposal asking the government to investigate how to increase the level of penalties for serious privacy violations, especially in the light of cases of competition. This also does not preclude the extension of the criminal framework. I just want to brief the representative Ellingen's posts instead. He is a representative I always listen to when he makes comments. He says that the majority supports the perpetrator rather than the victim. I will strongly reject that. As I've been in my post, we haven't, through what we do, rejected the government's proposals, but we want a much more thorough treatment. And as I also said, how can we also look at the conditions that will not 'touche' the upper penalty framework, but that will be raised within? Then I would also say that when you don't want to give discounts, you're going to get into the U.S. system, because with two killings, one will automatically go up to 42 years, etc. – to use the maximum penalty framework for a continuous period of time. I address the proposals of the Christian People's Party. We also support the changes the government has proposed in terms of upliftment and stronger requirements for justification.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2177	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2182	The Central Party believes on a general basis that we have a reasonable penalty level in Norway. It shows the evolution of crime and not at least one low relapse rate. Of course, one should make sure that those who have done something criminal get a proper response. I'm always open to listening to good arguments and I'm willing to discuss penalties and maximum penalties when it comes to some types of crime. In this case, however, there was no good debate, because the time frame was too short. The Labour Party and the Center Party agreed to point this out and try to postpone the treatment, but were not heard by the presidency. If one is to increase the maximum penalty, there must be considered reasons for this. The consequences must be well-developed, and the cases must be thoroughly worked out and debated by the elected representatives. The prison sentence is invasive and very serious for that debt. In addition, whether or not we establish our criminal system has meaning for society, because it can affect the rate of relapse and how many actually live a life that is law-abiding after yet another punishment. This is therefore a matter for more thorough treatment in Stortinget. Since matters were brought up too late in the session, it has not been possible. The representative Frölich tried to make it appear that those who will vote against it today are at the same time for milder punishments. I can confirm to the Center Party that we have been involved in increasing the penalties for the most serious and serious crimes. Where this is the case, several of the hearing authorities have been strongly critical of the government’s proposal. Saka has both principal and practical aspects, and the Stortinget should have been given a better basis and more time to deal with them. As mentioned, the government has not arranged for this to be done in a good way. The centre party will therefore not give a plurality of submissions to increase the maximum penalty for serious privacy restrictions from 21 to 26 years. However, the centre party will vote in favour of the submission of claims for compensation for the integrity of persons who have been subjected to several perpetrators. Substitution is a far less invasive measure than prison sentences, and I believe that the government has provided sufficient grounds for us to vote in favour of it already now. This was also not the most controversial issue in the audience. On the contrary, it was supported by several speakers. The system we have today, I think, breaks with what most people think is fair. I mean, it's an artificial separation that a selection victim e.g. shall receive less compensation if he has been the victim of a three-four-person group election certificate than if he has been the victim of three-four separate electoral certificates during a short period of time. A replacement can help a victim get back on his feet after a traumatic event, and I think it's important that we now put in place a new system. It is also important that flexibility is provided for judges, so that they can measure appropriate and reasonable replacements in each case. In my view, the government has landed on a solution that balances the most important concerns in the matter. Victims must be taken more seriously than they are today when it comes to this type of crime. It is important and right that it is now possible to condemn a higher level of reprisals in cases where people have been subjected to anti-truth crimes by several perpetrators.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2201	This case is about important fundamental boundaries in our criminal justice care. We have, and have always had, a mild society in Norway. One of the reasons for this is that society's criminal responses are humane. We do not have unreasonable punishments in this country, and we do not have unreasonable and poor reconciliations. We're not supposed to have that either. Looking at societies with very high levels of punishment and poor reconciliation, this is often reflected in society as such. It's not that if we have high penalties for, for example. Kill, there's fewer killings, or if we have bad reconciliations, there'll be fewer prisons. In many cases it may seem that the opposite is the case. That's why it's important that we think very carefully about when we move on to the primitive boundary mark. In this case, it has gone reasonably quickly. As I understand it, this case has been delivered after the deadline Stortinget itself has set. Furthermore, it is dealt with urgently within the Committee and several of the hearing bodies were unable to attend hearings and could not therefore be consulted. A case like this requires a more orderly process than it has been put up in this case. At least that's my opinion. In Norway, figures show that crime is on its way down. The rate of relapse is among the lowest in the world. We have good reasons to be proud of the tradition we have in Norway. If the goal is little crime and good rehabilitation back to society, we're really doing pretty well. But it's clear this is a nuanced question. Penalty levels are a difficult question. We have probably all received e-mails with thousands of signatures from a campaign for higher maximum penalties. At the same time, we know that when laymen are sitting in court and going to impose penalties on specific cases, the question is no longer as simple. Then they often judge more mildly than a tradesman would. It is not easy to discuss the level of punishment with those who are victims or relatives after a criminal act. The problem is that it is not possible to make up for the suffering that has been caused. In this case, several argue that as long as one killing can lead to 21 years of imprisonment, more killings should lead to an additional increase to 26 years of imprisonment. But is it really such that an increase from 21 to 26 years of age is what is needed to bring people’s sense of justice into line with the law? Or will this lead to further pressure to increase the level of penalties? The penalty level is not fixed and static. There is something that changes over time, and there are many considerations that need to be weighed against each other when determining the level of penalties. Of course, people's sense of justice is one of these considerations. But we should remember that it is to society that individuals should make up for themselves, and rehabilitation is an important part of the punishment. The sentence is to go back into society and live as normal, as someone's neighbor and someone's colleague. Preventive considerations must be taken into account. In those cases, the preventative effect is less than for other types of crimes. It is often affected inside the picture, and the preventative effect of a punishment is decreasing when the punishment reaches a certain level. There are two reasons why the Left does not support the government's proposals for criminal atrocities. Firstly, it is because the process has not been in line with the seriousness of this matter. But the important thing is that we want to continue the line we have in Norwegian criminal justice, with humanity and moderation as carrying values. With regard to the government's proposal to amend the Damage Compensation Act § 3-5 and § 5-3 in order to clarify the possibility of setting separate claims for compensation for the individual responsible, we support it – as others have also stated that they do. I want to promote the proposals of the Left that have been submitted. In principle, we thought that we should vote subsidiaryly for the Labour Party's proposal. However, I am not as sure anymore, because I feel that we have two government parties that argue very strongly for their view of the matter, which is natural, but which also does not indicate that there is any doubt that this is a difficult matter, and that there are some important reasons that need to be balanced against each other. I'm afraid that if a sample is to be set down, it won't be as broad a structure as it should be, given the gravity and importance of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2221	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2226	The government will extend the maximum sentence to 26 years of imprisonment in several criminal offences that may result in more than 15 years of imprisonment. The matter was brought before Stortinget on 22 May and has consequently been dealt with urgently. That's special. So big issues as raising the level of punishment in Norway from 21 to 26 years in prison, even if it's just for a few crimes, must and should receive thorough treatment, not only by the government, but also by the Storing. One thing that is being discussed in the committee over three working days, which makes sense to listen, it is simply unwarranted. There is a major and important question of increased penalties will lead to fewer criminal offences and more justice for the victims. It is true that there will never be full justice for the criminal acts here, otherwise we would not have a humane criminal system. So there's an important balance where these limits are going to go. SV sees that the legal environment is divided when it applies if it is necessary and desirable, and whether it will contribute to a better criminal system. Many think that this proposal is in line with the people's view of justice, but it is not necessarily certain. Where does it come from? Where does it come from that this is in line with the legal opinion of people? Of course, we should have taken more time to get a better knowledge of that, and a distribution would have just given us the answer. SV will therefore support the proposal of the Labour Party, to set up a selection to look at the need – this is how we will assess all aspects of the matter in a major and important discussion of principle. SV will therefore also support the proposal from the Left to address the impact of various penalties, in terms of rehabilitation. SV will vote in favour of the proposals for separate uplifting requirements for each responsible officer. There have long been unfair and unreasonable ways of calculating compensation for victims, and we support that change. Back to the maximum penalty: for me, it is clear that the proposal contains a rather poor one and narrows the entrance to the very issue of punishment. First, the government led what is a legal opinion to people without having asked them, without hearing them. Secondly, it's completely blue what effects this will have on both the general preventive and the individual preventive levels. Would a slightly higher maximum penalty level at all lead to fewer offences, or to an individual's greater awareness of the seriousness of their actions? The proposers should be able to answer that question. Thirdly, it is quite unclear whether a slightly higher sentence will contribute to better rather than poorer rehabilitation. And what would it be like to come back to society for those rehabilitated after the punishment? Would a higher level have a positive effect on it? In short, it does not seem that the government has neither asked itself nor others the fundamental question: Will this lead to a better or a worse society? I hope that at least one of the supporters of this proposal can answer in principle. Just blowing this proposal through in the Storting without completely fundamental questions being raised is quite daunting. Why is the government party afraid of what people and professionals will say and mine? It's an open question, which I think we'll hardly get answers to in this debate. But I realize that there's a campaign going on, and that this is part of a longer campaign design.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2249	It is a fact that killing, gross violence, rape and sexual assault on children have major adverse effects on offended, relatives, survivors and society as a whole. The victims and their loved ones suffer from long-term suffering, both physically and mentally. Society is damaging in terms of increasing insecurity in the population and reducing life expectancy and quality of life. The government believes that penalties must better reflect the seriousness of committing more serious crimes against the lives and health of fellow people. This is what is at the heart of the matter that the Storting will decide on today. The proposal for a more severe punishment consists of two elements that need to be seen in the context: firstly, raising the maximum sentence by five years, from 21 years to 26 years, in cases where someone has committed more serious violent or sexual offences. Secondly, there is a signal to the courts to judge the penalties more stringently in this type of case. That is, the penalty level has to be raised. It has now been 36 years since the Storting lifted the life sentence in the penal code. It was in 1981. The maximum penalty was then set at 21 years in prison. It has been stuck since then, with the exception of genocide, crimes against humanity, gross war crimes and serious acts of terrorism, where the penalties have gradually been lifted to 30 years in prison. Since then, these questions have been investigated and debated several times. And on the basis of the proposition that Stortinget is dealing with today, there is a thorough investigation based on further developing previous investigations of this issue. That is why I am critical of the proposals for further investigations. The question has already been addressed in several rounds. We already know the reasons for and against stricter penalties in these kinds of cases. Another investigation won't help. What remains is the political balance that this assembly has been set to make. The government's proposals have been widely debated since it was sent to the hearing in December last year. The opinions have been shared. I have noticed that the Association of Lawyers and the Riksadvokat are among those who have opposed the proposal. On the other hand, the proposal has been supported by hearing bodies such as the National Advocate General and the Stine Sofie Foundation. In the hearing at Stortinget, the police lawyers also agreed to the proposal. Some debaters have made a point that punishment can only be justified by the general and individual preventive effects of the punishment. These benefits are important, but in my view they cannot alone justify the current level of penalties. Although we cannot be certain that a 21-year-old penalty framework is more preventative than, for example, it is. 5 years, I think there are few who think we should lower the penalty level for killing so drastically. It has to do with justice: for victims, for relatives, for survivors and for society as a whole. It's also about us, as a society, giving signals about the impunity of an act. I believe today's high penalty discounts give a wrong signal. We can never achieve full proportionality between crime and punishment. The punishment must be in line with human rights and our traditions for human criminal justice. But within these overall frameworks, it is a political issue to determine where the level of penalties and maximum penalties should be. The government therefore believes that the level of penalties for more serious violent and sexual offences should be raised. In view of this, in view of the increase in the level of penalties for killings, serious violence and sexual offences that have taken place in recent years, the government believes that the penalties in these cases should be raised from 21 to 26 years. I note that the majority of the committee has signaled that they want to continue today's high penalties and that unfortunately the majority does not support the government's proposal for increased penalties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2270	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2275	Today we are dealing with a matter in which the Right and Advance Party stand alone on an urgent procedure on a matter that does not need to be dealt with urgently. The economic and administrative consequences of the draft law on criminality have been discussed in a vote on the proposal. The irresponsible proceedings in Stortinget have also cut off the Stortinget from asking questions for clarification to the Ministry, which is an important democratic value that distinguishes the role of government and the Stortinge. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare shows that the need for 5 p.m. paydays is increasing. would trigger investments of 550 million. NOK 125 million. kr in annual increased operating costs. This is not explained in the proposition. Crime prevention in Norway is cut, so the settlement capacity in Norway is to be said to rest on site under the regime of the Right-wing-Fremskritsparte-government. Does the Council of State agree that the economic and administrative implications of the proposal are essential information for the Storting, and does the Council of State consider that it is sufficiently well established and visible in the proposition presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2286	These questions, which I was talking about in my post, have been investigated a number of times since the removal of the life sentence in 1981. It has been debated, and it has been investigated. So lack of information and lack of knowledge to make decisions in this case, I believe is a very bad argument. But I feel that one would like to use that argument in order to avoid making a choice in what is an important matter, and which, through my time as a politician, I have experienced as a recurring topic that has been discussed, without being willing to promote the legislative proposals that are necessary to take care of the reasons that I perceive the people are asking for, that is to say, stricter penalties. Then it's little about discussing even more about the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2297	I understand that it is unpleasant and that the ‘repeat’ button is good to have. In previous criminal atrocities under Stoltenberg, the need for settlement days increased. The estimates by the Directorate of Criminal Welfare of the necessary budgetary reinforcements are higher than the overall cut over this entire government period. The Progress Party is going to elect tens of billions in increased tax cuts, while expressing concern on behalf of the welfare state. Janus face is so obvious in today's politics. The measure in the Netherlands is temporary and, as far as the size is known, no processes have been initiated with regard to the extension of, for example: The ski and Halden, which could quickly be in place. Since this is urgent, does the Council of State now prepare for capacity expansion by these and other prisons, and can the Council of State assess when work in Skien and Halden can begin?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2308	This government has facilitated the development of prison sites. That's what we're doing. It is also evident in the revised national budget. So new prison sites are being built. At the same time, we use the temporary places in the Netherlands to remedy a situation created by the previous government, where there were not enough prison places to deal with those who were waiting for restitution. This government is doing something about it. Then I see the connection between the matter that the representative is dealing with, and what we are discussing here today, that is, increased penalties, that might be a little bit sought. First of all, I don't believe that the best argument for justice and stricter penalties is that you fear you're going to get a little more expenditure on compensation. In that case, there's a cost we're willing to take. So in addition, we've built up prison capacity, and we're going to keep doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2315	I understand very well that it is unpleasant to suffer such a clear defeat in Stortinget in a matter that does not need to be dealt with urgently, and as the Right Party and the Advance Party stand alone to seek urgent treatment. It is particularly challenging when the Minister of Justice is not even able to explain the economic consequences in the United Kingdom, and only indicates that previous assessments have been made. Here we have a situation where almost one has not begun to build a single new prison place in Norway at the time you have had government power. So we're going to ask, what will that cost? How will the Minister of Justice address the increased need for capacity? So far, we've only heard the repeat button. It could be interesting with some facts, and perhaps in connection with the Halden and Ski prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2322	We have set up new prisons. I also refer to the revised national budget and Agder prison, which is going to mean a big boost. So yes, more prison sites are being built, and we're temporarily relieving through what we have in place in the Netherlands. So here the government is acting, and more will come in the time ahead of us. Then I understand that it is unpleasant for the Workers' Party to discuss this matter, and that one prefers it to be about all sorts of things other than what is at the heart of the matter and the reality of the matter. So for decades we have discussed stricter penalties for particularly serious crime, where the same type of crime has been repeatedly committed. This government takes note of it, promotes a bill and asks the Stortinge to decide on it, and the only thing I notice is that you argue with it, so it's process, investigation and more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2332	We are not operating on a penalty rebate in Norway, but the Council of State is talking about a penalty rebate in its intervention. Therefore, my question is simply whether the intention of the proposition is to change this, so that we now operate on a penalty discount. Because you have some principal challenges to it, as I see it, and at least you want a completely different system if you're going to do it. So when the council says it that way, is it that he wants to change it, or would he want someone to change it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2337	The way today's legislation works, you get what many people see as a penalty discount, that is. That the first sexual assault on a child is the most pronounced, and if you repeat this several times, the punishment per per perpetrated sexual assault on this child will be reduced. There's something we're trying to repair with this proposition that, to a greater extent, repeatable crimes that are very serious – we're talking about penalties of more than 15 years – are less likely to receive this discount, as you see it. That is why I had also thought that this was something the Storting was willing to do something about. This has been discussed for a long time, it's been worked out for a long time, and it's just a matter of the big deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2344	I want to follow up on what the representative Ropstad spoke about. The Council of State answers that he is concerned about fines. If you commit a crime with a penalty of up to 21 years, you can get 21 years. If such crimes are committed, the Minister of Justice and the Government now want to increase the penalties to 26 years. But it'll still be a penalty discount, we'll just set the ceiling a little bit higher. The argument used by the Minister of Justice himself will also be valid if he is today to have a majority in favour of the proposal he has made. In addition, the proposal here on the table leads to an increase in the level of penalties for certain crimes with a penalty framework of more than 15 years. My question to the Council of State is: Is he concerned that there will be further pressure on other criminal acts when there is a greater tension in the level of punishment – that we will have further pressure to increase the level of penalties in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2351	It is true that as long as you operate with a upper penalty, you will always get in the situation that if you do enough crimes, you will get what can be perceived as a penalty discount. The intention of this proposition is to reduce that effect and create more balance between what is prosaically referred to as fairness, i.e. expectations out there when people commit very serious crime, and the measurement of the penalty is then imposed on the individual. This is an attempt to respond to that criticism. So it's true that what was originally at the hearing was more extensive. This is an attempt to meet the opposition and the Storting in order to get a solution that we can actually decide on in this downgrade session.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2360	The Council of State says this is more in line with the legal opinion of people. How did the Council of State get along with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2365	If you have participated in the political change of words over the years, you will see a recurring theme that is just about this. And that's exactly why it's so important to distinguish between the kind of crime that has no victim, the kind of crime that's not so serious, and what we're talking about here. We're talking about killing, we're talking about sexual assault on children, rape, gross violence, and it's repeated several times. It's when you end up in that situation, as feedback out there among many voters says, that it's unfair to have some kind of criminal discount when you commit so many serious crimes. I see that there is something that reflects people's sense of justice. It may be that SV disagrees with it, but at least it is a position I have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2370	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2377	I'm going to talk a little bit about the matter, i.e. I have not intended to say so much about the content of the matter, because it is excellent for our justice politicians. I would rather comment on the fact that we are dealing with the matter. I stand here with a letter from the President of the United Kingdom, dated 21 February, concerning the presentation of cases to the Grand Duchy in the spring session, which says that in view of the government's view of announced matters in the spring session, the Presidency finds reason to inform that matters must be brought forward by Friday 21 April at the latest in order to be expected to be dealt with before the end of the spring session. Of course, it's especially because if you get big and important things, the Storting should have the opportunity to do a real job with them. I see this matter as important. The majority of the parties in the committee, the Right Party and the Advance Party, have made sure that we deal with the matter in ours, despite the fact that it was sent from the government over one month after the deadline. They should have done it before, if they thought it was important. When we have the rules for when matters are to be presented, it is for the sake of democracy's demands for thoroughness in the treatment of the Storting, and not least respect for the fact that not everyone has as large groups as the Labour Party, the Right or the Progress Party in the Storing. In this case, it is in fact that neither the Left, the SV nor the Greens have people in the trade committee who have dealt with the matter within a few days. Then it is that the large parties do not respect the ability of the small parties to follow their obligation to work thoroughly and to get involved in the matter. But what is perhaps most serious is that when the minority takes up this matter with the presidency, it is that the majority of the presidency, the same two parties, does not respect the Presidency's letter to the government. And when the presidency does not facilitate a good democratic debate on an important issue – which I also believe is important, and which there may be good reasons to present – then the ability of the Grand Duchy to deal with it in a good way, challenges the role of the Presidentship of the Grand Duchy in terms of democratic treatment. The majority of the Presidency shall respect the interests of the Right and the Progressive Party, but not the interests of democracy and not the interests of proper proceedings. I think that's disappointing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2392	The government has proposed to increase the maximum penalty for repeated serious integrity violations. This is supposed to hit the perpetrator of several murders, more serious rapes and more violent crimes. Today is the day when the Labour Party and the Central Party vote against this proposal – despite the fact that victims, relatives and most people say yes to increasing the level of penalties for the worst crimes committed. The Stine Sofies Foundation has collected over 18,000 signatures in favour of government proposals in just a few days. At least this tells me that people out there want stronger reactions to the perpetrators and rather support the victims, although there is a small proportion of our population. We politicians have a responsibility to listen to people. That's why we're chosen for Stortinget. The debate on the criminal framework has always been up to date, and the proposal by the government has been notified of policies for a long time, ever since we drew up the government platform. In addition, criminal frameworks have been debated in society for a long time. The debate is coming to an end when very serious criminal acts go before the courts. The working party has spent a lot of time criticising the process itself, instead of spending time on the case itself. For a long time, we didn't know how the Workers' Party would deal with it. The only thing we knew was that they wanted to postpone the handling of the matter in Stortinget. The working party is standing here today and criticising the process. They believe that we urgently deal with the proposal in three weeks and run an irresponsible process. However, this is still a paradox, because last Friday the Labour Party promoted a new proposal for changes to the conditions for the reform of the police. This is what they want us to treat in just one week. I understand that it's a campaign, and that the fronts are picking up. But here the Labour Party cannot criticise the government parties for urgent treatment, when they do the exact same thing themselves. It is a pity that the proposal for a criminal framework does not get a majority, and unfortunately the debate has concerned itself with the process rather than the case itself. It is a pity that in another case we seem to forget the victims behind such a serious criminal act. Today, we do not reach a majority for an important proposal that would strengthen the position of victims and relatives. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2413	Minister of Justice Amundsen was for some time challenged by what were the three most important issues this government had done to combat rape. He came up with one: the police reform. It says most of the time about a government that at the end of the period tries to conceal its lack of action in the fight against violence and abuse and introduce ‘longer punishment’ by trying to appear as strict. The government doesn't even bother to add up to a proper process. The Supreme Court is critical, the National Attorney is critical, and the Directorate of Criminal Affairs points out that it's going to cost hundreds of millions of dollars. And then the Storting gets six days to treat it. That's not how you run a country. The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, said that the Workers' Party had plenty of time in government to impose a maximum penalty. With respect to reporting: The party of progress has been in government for four years and has had time to promote this matter for the Stortinge a long time ago. Then we could have treated it in a thorough, tidy and responsible way. We're not going to do that right now. It is soon a campaign, and this case has been marked by day one. For four years, the Labour Party has called for a binding action plan against rape, and tomorrow, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party will vote against such a binding plan. The commitment of the plan is out of the question for the government. They also vote against the proposal that rape, violence in close relations and violence and child abuse, including online abuse, should be a priority of the police. And they are voting against the proposal to intensify efforts to change attitudes to rape and to increase the knowledge of judges and co-judges in the courts about rapes, in particular party and sleep rapes. It does not help to say that rapists should stay in prison for a long time if they are not judged. The main challenge today is that many rapes are never reported, that you can't even be sure that the report is prioritised by the police, and that the chances of the perpetrator being convicted are small. But what does the Minister of Justice do with these real challenges? Not the things of the world. The Labour Party is not opposed to increased penalties for serious integrity violations, but we need to know what the consequences of the proposal are, and what the need is – and not least we will do more, because increased maximum penalties alone are not enough to combat violence and abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2426	For decades, criminals have had a number of organizations, professors, criminologists and other experts who have fought for ever better rights for lawbreakers. With some honourable exceptions, there are few voices in the debate that talk about what is best for the victims. Like the victims' organizations, the party wants more severe penalties for the very worst criminals. In the interests of the dignity of the victims, serial killers and serial killers should be penalised more severely than at present. The Progress Party wants to give victims greater space in Norwegian criminal law. Today, it is possible to sentence a criminal to a maximum of six years in additional punishment for all offences other than the first, or twice the penalty for a crime in which the framework is under six years. Today, rape has a maximum sentence of ten years, cf. the criminal law § 291. According to today's legislation, a serial offender who has committed several dozen rapes can be sentenced to a maximum of 16 years in prison. In addition, we know that the courts are constantly refusing to use the upper part of the criminal framework. An investigation carried out by the NRC in 2011 showed that on average, assaults resulted in a judgment that was less than one fifth of the criminal penalty. Can we say that this is a system that takes great care of the victims? No – we do not believe that in the Progress Party. The government will not introduce an American system in which criminals are sentenced to several hundred years in prison. However, the Progress Party wishes to make the necessary changes to a criminal system that is far too low to care for and focus on the victim in criminal proceedings. The government’s proposals therefore provide for a tightening of current practices so that serial and professional offenders are more likely to be held responsible for their crimes. A moderate increase in the five-year penalty framework means that serial offenders and professional criminals will receive a penalty that takes more account of the need for justice and reprisals. Victims of rape and serious crime are being compensated and reviled by perpetrators today. This is right and good. However, there are some relatively grotesque paradoxes in today’s legislation. In cases involving several perpetrators, the courts will often lay down an overall responsibility for reprisals, for example: in cases of repeat violence. As a result, individual criminals who have committed a group rape pay less in retribution to the victim than they would have done if they had committed the rape alone. This is morally wrong, and I'm glad that this part of the proposal gets a majority here today. The Progress Party has in government removed the limitation period for violence and abuse, strengthened the children's homes and established a victim's office in each police district. I hope the victims' rights can be further strengthened here today, and I urge everyone to do as the Progress Party: vote in favour of the whole proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2444	The criticism of the process just sounds a little hollow. I do not think that there is a lack of time here, but above all there is a lack of will. This has been programmed. It has been notified since 2013. The main content has been known for both the Workers' Party and all of us since December 2016. So the proposition is changed. It's made less extensive. It's just that the proposition has become much more affordable. Yes, the matter has been dealt with a little faster than normal, but it has not required any more work for that reason. There has been a slight loss of life in committee proceedings, but consultation has been carried out in an entirely sound and normal manner, and there have been sound comments, at least for top politicians sitting on the Stortinget. The voters expect us to take action. Instead, we come out of this day with decisions on new investigations, new committees, new selections. Obviously, it's easy to kick the ball down the street and postpone decisions. So it's just to register that of all the parties that complain about the process, the Labour Party is complaining the highest. So this is the party with the largest size group, with most communications consultants and other political advisors, they have a large judicial fraction -- they have all the prerequisites to be able to fit into a proposition of just under 40 pages. Will this theme come as a surprise to the Workers' Party? Is not the very essence of what to do as a justice policy, of taking a stand on our criminal system and the criminal framework? Is it not a debate that justice politicians should be able to take on board? The Labour Party must be against this proposal, it is completely an honest matter. But at least they have to be able to indicate a clear point of view. The Labour Party has spent a lot of time talking about presidency and temptations and formal letters, but what does the Labour Party think about the matter? Is it settled that the Labour Party wants to give the voters? Does the Workers' Party recognise the problem at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2460	One might think of several reasons to increase the penalties for various offences. It can contribute to stronger general prevention, i.e. fewer people want to do such fractures, or it can contribute to stronger individual prevention, i.e. that the offender in question will come up with better thoughts. However, the government party does not use such arguments in the setting, nor in the listening note that went out. It said on the contrary black in white: ‘Prevention theories — general and individual prevention — can give little justification for such a change in law’. So what are we left with? Well, that's the good old common law, which is the most important and only argument in the proposal from the government party. And then what is this size "general justice"? The Minister of Justice said instead that he was talking to some voters. Yeah, that's good. A reasonable interpretation is perhaps what the plural had to mean about the level of punishment. I think there's good reason to say that the plural is too severe a punishment. But the question is whether the multiples mean it because they a) know what the actual penalty level is, or b) because they don't know it. And we actually have a lot of knowledge about that. It was a major research project at the University of Oslo in 2010 that carried out a thorough investigation of people's arrests for punishment. What did we learn from that? Well, we learned three things: People want more punishment. People think the penalty level is much lower than it actually is. When they are asked what would be a proper level of punishment, people in general respond less than what is the real level of punishment today. In the case we've been leading, it's all about serious integrity constraints. Okay, what does the research say about it? Well, when people are presented to things about street election and party election, only 36 pst would. give the same severe punishment as a court actually gives. When they were presented for electoral matters, only 43 pst would. give the same severe punishment as that which a court actually gives. And when one asked them what they thought a court would give in punishment, the actual penalty level in all cases was seriously underestimated by the ones they asked. This was an outrage before the criminal atrocities of the new criminal law. The fact is, then, that the Norwegian level of punishment is largely in line with the general perception of law. Yeah, sometimes it's actually overly strict. But just as fully, most people think that the penalty level is much lower than it is. Why is that? Well, maybe it's because we have a bunch of politicians running around in election fighting after election fighting and giving a misleading picture of how hard we actually punish people in this country. They should end with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2485	Norway is one of the safest and most peaceful countries in the world, not in spite of the fact that we have a criminal system based on knowledge and humanism, but because of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2488	When I listen to the different posts here now, where we discuss how people experience things, how we politicians experience things, and how lawyers experience things, there's someone who doesn't get mentioned often enough, and that's the victims. It's the victims – and the relatives of the victims – who have to be in the center. So it's shown here as if this is something completely new. No, it's not entirely new, we discussed this when I was on the Justice Committee from 2009 to 2013, so it's a bad argument to use it. We know about this -- we have knowledge. Today we have 21 years for one killing, one serious assault, and here we are making suggestions to raise to 26 years for two or more. But we have also managed to adopt 30 years on terrorism, which is also two or more. Where, then, is the distinction between killing 15 and 17, or killing 50 and 150? No one can draw that limit. This is again about the victims. It's not necessarily a sum of heads. It's not necessarily that we're looking at the number of years, but that's the amount. If a representative sitting in this room had a daughter who had been seriously assaulted, and that daughter was one of five, one of six, and the case came into the courtroom and one wanted to see what we were discussing here in this room, then the individual child should not be as well cared for as the first. What does that do to the individual? Is he worth less? This is primarily about being seen as a victim. It's about getting the same recognition for what you've been through, it's about being believed, and it's about having a legal system that takes the victims seriously. I am absolutely convinced that in this case the victim must continue on his way. Victims shall not be required to comply with any compensation scheme or other provision. This government has done a lot of work, and one of the most important things we've done is to set up victims' offices, with low-threshold facilities. But then the legal system must also be included, supporting this proposal, which takes the victims seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2503	This is a matter of fairly demanding evaluations, and it is done too badly by the government. That's why the Workers' Party is forced to vote down individual parts. When the 2005 Penal Code was passed, the Labour Party was the driver behind increasing the penalties for more serious criminal acts. Drapp got increased punishment, from ten to twelve years in prison. The minimum penalty for killing was raised from six to eight years. Sexual intercourse with children under 14 years of age was subject to electoral detention and a minimum sentence of three years. In the case of gross power, the penalties were increased by one-third. For electoral purposes, the minimum penalties were increased from two to three years. Rough selection was clarified to have to give at least five years. In other words, it is wrong, what the representative Frölich and the representative Ellingsen have claimed, that the Labour Party has never been to increase the penalties. Under the given circumstances and with thorough legal reasoning, we have also done so in other contexts. With regard to the proposal we have received today, the main problem is that the Right Party and the Progress Party have made a proposal too late for one to deal with it properly – have given the Storting six working days to deal with it and have done one for bad work. That's not the way to control a country. Frölich had a comment instead that the Labour Party is so large and has so many in the Justice Committee that they must be able to do it within this period, but this is about democracy. It's also about all the other parties that have significantly smaller sizes, and with Frölich's reasoning, one can put down the entire Law Department in the Justice and Defence Department, for what should a real deal with it? There is, after all, a sentence in the Party Program to the Right that there will be such a case. And then you can't have any need to discuss or deviate the individual parts of it, would you believe? I'd like to refer to the hearing letter from the Attorney General, where they point out: ‘It is not easy to see that, in cases of competition, penalties will lead to a greater degree of proportionality: [[...]] [[...]] They also write: ‘Changes in the level of penalties should have broad support both at public and political level and be consistent with fundamental values. A prerequisite for ensuring this is likely to be gradual tightening of penalties over time.’» The Right Party and the Progressive Party have chosen conflict and election fight, not accession and anchoring. Not even their cooperation party was bid to support this proposal. The fact that this is a purely electoral proposal shows the repeated attacks of the Right Party and the Progress Party on the Labour Party, not on the Christian People's Party, not on the Left, which is their cooperation party, but which in this case mean the Labour Party. The Right Party and the Progress Party claim to be concerned with the victim's perspective, but they didn't have money in the escalation plan against violence in close relationships, don't touch the money for the children's houses, don't have the demands for family council coordinators in the police districts, and don't have enough money given to the courts, so that they can be killed quickly, that the victim can get clarification and the perpetrator is punished. They're not a party with the victims, they're a party with themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2530	In Norwegian criminal law, perpetrators usually receive both stricter penalties and have to pay higher compensation, the more offensive and serious a crime is. Of course, this is for all thoughtful and upcoming people — the more serious the crime, the more severe the punishment. A more severe punishment means higher compensation for the more traumatised victim. This was supposed to be the starting point in Norwegian courts. Unfortunately, paradoxical and grossly unfair exceptions to this rule exist. A more grotesque crime may in practice lead to a lower level of liability. In 2008, the Supreme Court clearly concluded that a rapist receives a discount on the compensation if he commits this loathsome act together with several others in a group rape. If each of the rapists paid their legal compensation for the victim, the compensation would be NOK 530000. The Supreme Court, on the other hand, believed, against all common sense, that group rapists should get away cheaper because the assault was committed by several. The compensation was therefore cut by well over half and ended at NOK 200,000. The rapists were also made jointly responsible. In practice, this means that if one of them has money on the book and is forced to pay the entire sum, the rest of the rapists get away without paying compensation at all. So I'm very happy that half of this proposition is going through today, that is, removing the so-called group discount. But the government does not get a majority in favour of the proposal to increase the maximum penalty, and I regret that very much. The bill is on the table. It has been developed by the country's leading lawyers in the Law Department, and the government's proposal has been at the hearing since December 2016. It is also quite special that the majority in this Chamber today believe it is entirely right to deal with half of the law today, but it is totally irresponsible to adopt the other half of the proposition. The arguments of the opposition, which has a majority in this case, are that the Storting has had too little time to assess it. But it makes sense in all opposition posts that they would never vote for this increased punishment, no matter how many extra days, weeks, months or years they had. This is not a new debate. There's a debate that's still going on in public space. I think you're very aware of the positions. But I find that the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and the Center Party etc. Today, it will support a proposal that will put down another sample and get another investigation. I think this really is throwing blues in the eyes of the victims, who want to get a penal code that is more in line with the sense of justice. I am proud that the Progress Party and the Right, our partner, stand side by side in this matter to take the victims seriously and to propose an increased maximum penalty.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2541	The matter and debate are well divided into three groups, the first being the governing parties – the Right and the Progressive Party – which are in favour of the proposal and argue for it. The second group is Left, SV and – as I read and interpret – also the Christian People's Party, a group in Stortinget that is against the proposal. They disagree, but respect the arguments of those parties. Then there's the last group, the Center Party and the Workers' Party, that's against the process – and then we don't hear anything about what they think about the matter. I just want to keep reminding myself that when the Stortinget dealt with the termination of the limitation period for arson fires, in 2015, it was, after a proposal from the Central Party, a proposal that had not been heard by the Ministry. It was in consultation under the authority of the committee, of course, but there was an urgent procedure, where everyone knew this was about one deadline, and it was reaching the limitation period for the Scandinavian Star case. This did not apply to the same principles as those set out by the Central Party from the pulpit in this matter. Then it's the Workers' Party, which has several representatives who stress that it's unheard of promoting things so late in the session and at the very end of this big deal. We also heard that the previous Grand President – from the previous period – underlined how terrible it was that this case was brought forward a month after the presidency had set a deadline for the promotion of new matters. He did not distinguish between matters – whether they were representative proposals or legal cases, all matters – while the representative Andersen's own party has promoted a case from this pulpit almost two weeks after that deadline again, and after this case was promoted. There is clearly a code that applies to some, but not to all, as seen with the glasses of the Workers' Party. Then we have the representative Ljunggren, from the Workers' Party, who is trying to link this to the fact that the government is not doing enough to limit violence and abuse. Then I would like to remind the Workers' Party that the Workers' Party would send back to the government the rapture plan against violence and abuse – and postpone such an important theme. Fortunately, it was not the majority of the Labour Party's proposals. Then we see that they are now promoting their proposals, which they would previously postpone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2552	There are two things I want to draw from this debate that are a little bit strange. The representative of Ellingsen pointed out that the red-green government had eight years to come up with a case like this today – he said she did not make a proposal. I've been with you for so long now that I want to show that during that period, the Storing made concrete efforts to increase the level of punishment here to land for serious fraud. I'm referring to the representative Tajik and she's rambling about it. When it comes to the so-called penalty rebate, which today is so frustrated by the Progress Party and the Right, it's worth remembering that this is a misleading deed. We don't have a criminal system with the accumulation of punishment, which one has in e.g. For example, the United States, where a 21-year maximum penalty was imposed — if one was based on the Norwegian system — on each other. may be given 105 years in prison for five killings by the same person. Here in the country, one considers the total punishment for several immaterials in a different way, with a health assessment and a maximum penalty. I want to do a thought experiment and a calculation with the claim from the Progress Party and the Right that they will reduce the penalty discount, and that we, who will not increase the maximum penalty after an emergency treatment here today, are too mild in the pinch. For example, I mentioned in my own case: if one person killed five others — during the maximum sentence of the day — and each of them killed in such an aggravating circumstance that it could have given 21 years of imprisonment with a new system, one in a system without so-called criminal rebates could give 105 years of imprisonment. The difference between the so-called penalty rebate on the proposal of the Right and the Progress Party today, where they want a maximum penalty of 26 years instead of today's 21st anniversary, is 84 years –79 years, i.e. five years in difference. For me, this boils down to the fact that the government wants to show the power of action – that's okay enough – but they're trying to cover the fact that the procedure when it comes to this proposition is not justified. Then it's natural that we in the other parties, who are voting against this proposal now, do it on the basis that Stortinget has not had enough time to make a reasonable decision. With all due respect, I would like to stress that a proposition on the level of penalties is different from a matter on the limitation period for one specific penalty, such as murder. But I thank the Stortinget for being with the Center Party on that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2565	If I said in my first post that the Workers' Party has not accepted increased penalties, it is of course wrong. You've done that, I'll be the first to admit it. What you should probably have said more clearly is that you could have done something about the individual liability, which you haven't done anything about. You're doing something about that today, and I think that's a good thing. Then it's quite a pleasure to listen to the debate, because here we are stuck in the old tracks. The size is not surprising and cannot be moved to any particular degree. Again, it has been noted that the hearing bodies are concerned about increasing penalties. I did not know that the Storting was subject to the hearing bodies! I thought the Stortinget was free to choose what you want to listen to, and what you want to ignore. Because ultimately this is about politics, not that the judges' association or the police lawyers think this is a terrible thing. This is about politics, and politics is about changing society in the direction you want – politically – and nothing else. Of course, we can make ourselves punishable, where we sort of discuss things back and forth, which are really unnecessary, because at the end of the day it's about what you stand for. Then you're worried about the increased penalties. I met a guy a few years ago in a Norwegian prison. He spent 42 years in a Norwegian prison. It was also said from the pulpit instead that everyone is going out again. No, all of them don't necessarily have to go out again. Our custody system allows people to actually stay inside for the rest of their lives. So be at least despicable from this pulpit! Just listen to the attacks on the criminal scene: I don't understand that criminal work is mentioned, I don't see anyone talking about it being inhumane. On the contrary, we're going to go on with what we have today, with rehabilitation, and most people are going out again, but it's not given that everyone is going out. And it was a pleasure to hear the representative from SV who asked if the Progress Party and the government were in line with people's legal opinion. Did SV have the opposite documentation here? Not as I got with me, at least. It is possible that they can rely on a larger contact area with the population than the rest of us, but in that case that is something I have to hear. Then it's said that you don't get any effect from an increase in the penalties. Again – with respect to reporting: the time you are in, you struggle to commit new crime. It could be a factor, whether you like it or not. The starting point here, at my discretion, is that you are clear about what you stand for politically. And as I said before, the dividing lines are pretty clear here. I understand that someone in the debate is totally against it; others say that we have to investigate it, but at the end of the day it boils down to one thing: those who vote down the proposal today give a handshake to the criminals and trample at the same time on the victims of Norwegian crime, and that is a fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2582	This is a matter that has aroused a great commitment among people on social media, and the Stine Sofie Foundation has collected about 20,000 signatures in a few days. So on social media there is a torch of citizens who want higher penalties for killing, gross violence, rape and sexual assault on children, but I am disappointed that the Stortinget sees another way. These are issues that concern few people, but that lead to enormous burdens on relatives and offended people. In the Progress Party, we have been on the victim's side for decades, and we have fought for a higher level of punishment, because we believe that the punishments must better reflect the seriousness of committing more serious crimes against human life and health. I believe that today's high penalties give a wrong signal, and that the level of penalties for more serious violent and sexual offences should be lifted. Increasing the maximum sentence by 5 years – from 21 to 26 years – in cases where someone has committed more serious crimes will be more appropriate to people’s perception of justice. I record that the Labour Party will investigate, investigate and investigate. Well, the question has already been thoroughly investigated in several rounds. We already know the reasons for and against stricter penalties in these cases, and another investigation will not help. Now we have the opportunity to act, and we should seize that opportunity. This is about justice for the victim, for relatives and for survivors. I believe that there are too many criminal discounts today for people who have seriously and seriously injured more people. I believe it is wrong that a person who has committed rape, assault on children or killed several times receives disproportionately low penalties per act, but I find that the Workers' Party disagrees. I note that they will not do anything about the level of penalties, and I note that the Workers' Party is more concerned about whether the proposals have been promoted within the deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2595	One should tolerate being duly stamped by the government parties in this debate. A group of victims they haven't talked about so much are those who never get their case up, where the perpetrator is never judged. I don't know if it was who the representative Roy Steffensen was thinking about when he was up and talking. One in ten women say that they have experienced rape, eight out of ten of the cases are settled. What have Roy Steffensen and the government done to facilitate the investigation of that kind of case? I see the Minister of Justice shaking his head down here lightly – I don't know what it's supposed to mean. I also wonder when the representative, Mr Werp, is up here and has not understood that the time limit set by the Presidency of the Grand Duchy was not in favour of the representatives of the Grand Duchy, nor was it in favour of the government's proposals for the Grand Duchy, but it was a time to get matters properly dealt with in this Grand Duchy. That you can stand up here and be so tall and dark and have not got it, I think is strange. To compare a proposal from the opposition that wants to get a closer look at whether the government actually complies with the agreement that has been made with the Stortinget, with the introduction of completely new sanctions in Norway, the follow-up to an existing case, I find it strange. Much indicates that the government has not been so concerned about having proper proceedings here. I heard Peter Christian Frölich say that this is a debate one should be able to take on the kick. It doesn't appeal to seriousness. Nor does it give the impression of a government that has done a thorough and good process, when it has not got its own supporting parties. I see that one is most concerned about shooting at the Workers' Party, but right now, if I wanted one of those who normally supported the government, had been the Minister of Justice, I would rather have heard a kind of sensible, narrative post like what we heard from Sveinung Rotevatn, who illuminated several aspects of the matter, and who would not only push the weakest in this matter ahead of him to achieve what you wanted. Instead, we heard a Minister of Justice say he's been with politics for a few years, so he knows a little about what it's all about. Not a reference to research, not a reference to numbers or studies — it becomes too simple. Then it's not nice you don't get a majority in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2606	The debate has revealed, as expected, that there will be no majority in favour of the proposal to increase the level of penalties for the most serious crimes. I'm not going to hide that I'm disappointed that the Right Party and the Advance Party are alone on this, but it's a pleasure, after all, that the other part of the proposition has got a majority. That means that those rules come into force this summer, and at least there's one thing that's absolutely certain that it wouldn't have happened to the opposition's pace of work. So it's joyous. It has been very encouraging through the process to get feedback from victims and relatives. 20,000 signatures from the Stine Sofies Foundation tell us something about this being a matter that is still going to have high topicality in the time that is coming. I just have to say that I think it almost looks like an insult to these 20 000 people who have signed up, that the Labour Party characterises it as an election campaign play from the Right and the Advance Party. I'm going to be very clear: we've promoted this proposition to get a decision. If we do not get a decision, we will at least have a debate and the possibility of a clear speech and a clear answer. Unfortunately, we have not received any of the parts, and that is regrettable. Then it is also sad that several media have reported back that they have not been able to set up a debate between us and the opposition. It's an unfortunate development. Then I am not talking about the one radio debate that has been held, which was primarily about the process, but it is about the content of the matter. I have said before that it is quite fair to oppose this proposal, but one must bear to debate the matter and the content of the matter. We're 90 days before a roll-call election, and the two largest opposition parties have not given the voters a clear answer through open debate. I'm sorry. Although this proposal does not get a majority today, it is worth recalling that several hundred thousand voters voted for this policy in 2013, and several hundred thousand voters are going to do the same for the autumn. We can only promise these voters one thing from this pulpit: if the government continues, we will be promoting this proposal again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2618	First, a little bit to process, and there I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good job. I am very clear that I think the committee had too short a time, but at least the case rapporteur did what he could, not only when the matter came to the committee, but also in advance, to try to anchor the matter better. But for our part, we are wondering that the matter did not concern us, for example. The criminal law, when we had it for treatment earlier, or only at an earlier time, when someone knows it was in the government platform. I can probably take self-criticism as well as that we should have gone deeper into the subject matter earlier, but now it is once that Stortinget is dealing with matters when they get to Stortinget, and then we have had too short a time. Therefore, I am also honest that the Christian People's Party has not been safe enough to decide on or support the proposition as it stands, and therefore we ask for what we are doing in the proposal that we have promoted. But there's one thing I want to say, and it's that I think it's a very dangerous argument when such a rhetorical one connects everything to the penalty discount. We have to value every victim who is hit by such a serious crime, but everyone has stressed that we don't want the American system, and then we talk in a way that's completely wrong. The representative Klinge had a clear example of how it would go with five killings, one will always meet the roof, and one has a different system in Norway, one looks at crime altogether. We don't want to go there either. That's why the Christian People's Party has said that we want a different type, or that we can help raise the punishments, but we don't want it in that direction and with the arguments that many people have used on this pulpit today. Therefore, I believe that much of the feedback in this case is that the victims want greater protection when the perpetrator is released. Then I think it's important that we look at whether we should perhaps condemn them to some kind of ban on living in some areas. Is there a direction we should go in to better protect those victims? After all, we have all the custody. Is that system good enough today? As the representative Ellingen was inside, he has met people who have been in prison for much longer than 21 or 26 years. We have systems to catch up with the most serious crime even today. At least we believe, as we show in the remarks, that we must have a thorough job of looking at what the Supreme Court points to has been successful from this room, just that a point of normality, that if you want to lift the penalties for some type of crime, such as repeated crime, the Grand Duchy should assess it, and that is what we are asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2629	Just to make it clear: the working party takes serious privacy restrictions seriously, and we share the commitment and the desire for justice that user organisations say they want. In 2015, the police received 1,408 reports of rape. This is the top of the iceberg. Most rapes are never reported. The main challenge of these rapes was not that the penalties were too low. It was that too few of the reported cases were properly investigated, that too few came to the courts, and that the person who had committed the rape was rarely convicted. It is a challenge that we are unable to secure those who are subjected to serious integrity violations such as rape, the legal certainty they deserve. People know that the chance to be believed, to be able to prove what has happened, to win out in court is small. That's why there's too few reports. Of 2 154 rape reports in Norway in the period 2011–2014, only 8.3 pst. decided in the legal system, i.e. 179 things. In only 107 of these, the verdict came, that is. in less than five of the cases. And the numbers haven't changed significantly since 2014. However, this is not something that the Right Party and the Advance Party will do. The Workers' Party increased the penalty for serious integrity violations when we were in government. For example, we increased the minimum penalty for rape from two to three years. We have also proposed several measures that will help to ensure that more people can be judged. These will be dealt with in Stortinget tomorrow. The Right Party and the Advance Party are going to vote against. Let me mention one of the suggestions: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that reported rapes are not held by the police, but that rape, violence in close relations and violence and child abuse, including online assaults, are prioritised by the police.’ This proposal is in favour of the Right and the Advance Party. This is a proposal that would lead to several cases being properly investigated, several cases coming to court, and several of those who have committed rapes being convicted. This is a proposal that works. But maybe that's not tabloid enough? To the Right and the Advance Party, this only appears to be rhetoric, only as an election campaign – if they had not submitted to a proper trial in the case, and they had voted in favour of our proposal against rape in the Chamber tomorrow. One of the most important things we can do for victims in this case is to ensure that they get predictability in the criminal system. What the government proposes with the poor treatment they have provided to Stortinget is not of a nature that we can be sure of will be permanent. That's one of the reasons why the Workers' Party wants a more thorough investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2651	In his last post, the representative Ellingsen said: ‘Those who vote against the proposal today give a handshake to the criminals and trample at the same time on the victims of Norwegian crime, and that is a fact.’ It's not a fact. It's a statement. And that, in my view, is a grossly unimaginable statement. It's actually a statement I didn't intend to make. Is it true that if the Left had made an alternative proposal today, where we said that we should have a maximum penalty of 30 years, I could rightly stand here and say that the Progress Party is drawing on victims and giving handshakes to the criminals? No, I wouldn't think of doing that, because I think there must be a minimum level of honest debate and what one dares to take in his mouth, when one is standing on this platform. I also thought that someone should turn to the only true spokespersons for victims of crime, not particularly despicable. It's not just the Right and the Progress Party talking to victims of crime. I'll do it too. I meet victims of crime that are some of the government parties, and I meet victims who agree with me. I meet the victims of crime at any time would have the death penalty imposed on those who have taken from their loved ones, and I meet them who think that the most important thing is to be trusted, and that the level of punishment is not so decisive for them. When we are going to determine the level of penalties, it is a weighing of perfectly legitimate retribution considerations, but also of concern for rehabilitation, for general prevention, for individual prevention. These are debates that I think have a lot of important shades, and dissolving them with the kind of simple rhetoric that is being used here, I don't think the Storting is worth it. Speaking of this, when it comes to the constant use of criminal penalties – not only from the representatives but also from the Minister of Justice: what we are talking about here is not something that can reasonably be called a penalty rebate. We have arrangements in Norway where one can get a deduction from the penalty, for example. if one cooperates with the police. We have arrangements where one can tighten up punishments, for example. if more than one victims are involved, and not just one. You get a severed sentence, you don't get a discount. What we're talking about here is asking about a roof, about what's going to be the maximum penalty. So she's going to increase the government party. But they don't want to remove it. If one then, instead of killing one person, who has a maximum penalty of 21 years, kills two – and 21 plus 21 is 42 – it would be with the government party's rhetoric that one had removed the discount, but it does not suggest it – probably because they still have a minimum of propriety when talking about what gives a humane and fair penal system. It was also said – by Ellingsen, I believe it was – that the representatives from SV have not provided evidence of the general legal position. No, no one has. I think the nearest person would have done that, actually I was in my first post. There's no choice. I think that's because they're not able to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2669	There is no doubt that the matter we are dealing with today has given a lot of attention, and there has also been some kind of debate that is a little special, I think. I'll come back to that. Fortunately, crime in Norway is going down. It's positive. But we also see that some of the serious events have become more serious. We're going to take that over. There is also no doubt that this matter will be dealt with long after the deadline set by both the Presidency and the Stortinget for dealing with matters, which was set by former Grandfather Dag Terje Andersen. Is it a modern, open democracy worthy that the Committee, where two or three parties are not represented, does not have the opportunity to deal with this properly? During the hearing on this matter, there were more at the hearing, among others. The National Attorney General and the Association of Lawyers, representing the highest level of knowledge in this field. They were very critical of the government's handling of this matter. There is no election campaign from the Right or Workers' Party in this area. But we have to take those signals seriously when they are so critical, not only for the handling of the matter, but also for the content of the matter. The Labour Party is committed to having a fair and preventative penal framework. Of course, the punishment for the most serious criminal acts must be strict, but is it 18 years old, is it 21 years old, is it 26 years old, or is it 30 years old? Where should the limit go for what are fair penalties for different actions? It is important to get into this matter in a good way. During the hearing, it was emphasised that people’s general perception of the criminal framework in Norway is that they believe the penalties are much lower than they actually are. It was underlined again and again during the hearing. When it's said here that the general idea is the opposite, that's not true. We need to make sure to prevent better for those in prison and to ensure that they can get back to society in a good way. Not least, convictions should be able to come back to work, be good neighbors, be good colleagues, etc. In other countries, it appears that only increasing the penalties framework does not have a good effect. So we see a lot of spaces. This is a serious claim on which the representative from the Left was involved, because this is not about how we are trodden on victims and relatives. This is an important matter, which we must take seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2686	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2691	I would also say that the Workers' Party does not like to be put in the booth where we are for the perpetrator and for the victim. It's false, it's wrong and it's wrong. I notice that the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party have a line of argument as if the Workers' Party and the Centre – and in so far as also the Christian People's Party and the Left – should have meant all the arguments put forward by these parties. That's not right either. They make their own arguments and use the line of argument against them. The working party does not take the discussion, it is said. Let's do the discussion. The Party of Progress and the Right jumps straight to the conclusion. The Minister of Justice said that increased penalties should reduce the number of offences. We agree. I refer to Penalty that works – less crime – safer societies, St. reported. No 37 for 2007–08, the first to take seriously the victims and relatives. Then I'll give you an explanation of vote. We will vote subsidiaryly for the proposals of the Christian People's Party after we have heard that it is an extended interpretation of the law, so that it includes both the current situation and the increased penalties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2700	Let me start by stressing that I am at least very happy that today you are able to do something about the profoundly unreasonable protection of uprooting, which is not enough to care for the victim today. I think it's very good that at least on that point you can get a majority in this room. Then it's a little strange that the same parties – at least many of them – who support the government's proposal believe that that part has had a sufficiently good process, while the other part of the bill has not had it. It seems a little bit constructed and not quite credible. That is not true, what has been claimed by many in the context of the action plan against rape. There's a work going on with it. The representative, Mr Ljunggren – and I also believe that the representative, Mr Henriksen – was involved in this issue. That work is under way, and it is precisely in the light of the criticism that the Riks lawyer made regarding the investigation of rape cases. I think it is very important that we get better measures in place to combat rape. I have heard many words in the debate today, and it has been very much about committee proceedings, presidency, consultation, deadlines, investigation, selection and process, process, process. Then it appears a little special when the representative Tajik is confronted with what the Labour Party believes about what is actually in the proposal, and the only thing you can point to is what was meant in 2005. It was 12 years ago, and you might expect the Workers' Party to be able to respond to what you mean today. What does the Workers' Party mean? What does the Centre Party think about putting in place a higher penalty framework for repeated serious crime, which is the topic today? We don't know that, but we've heard a lot about process, and we've heard a lot about investigations and deadlines. The government – the Right Party and the Advance Party – is at least concerned with tightening up the penalties for the serious acts we are talking about here. We're talking about child abuse. We're talking about brutal violence, rape and murder. It's about taking the victim, relatives and those who are back, seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2713	Now I think that almost all the parties have gone up here and said that they don't find themselves in the vocabulary that says that if you don't vote for the proposals, you give a handshake to criminals, and you trample on the victims. I had perhaps hoped that this was what the Council of State was going to say about – that he did not understand his own support parties and the opposition parties' vote in that way either. Instead, he goes up here, and – what to say – almost resents the fact that the Storting has democratic deadlines, that the Storting is using a procedure. He says nothing about why when he got the letter from the presidency, he didn't immediately notify me that this was a matter he was doing, and that it would soon come to the Stortinget – he had worked on it for a long time, and all his lawyers were on the matter. There is one thing, but I had hoped that when he saw how all the representatives in this room were dismayed by the language and the stamping of a representative from his own party engaged in this matter, perhaps he would go up and distance himself from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2718	I do not understand that it is my job to describe posts that come from other representatives, and words that fall into a hard debate. Again, I perceive that one is more concerned with discussing the process, more concerned about discussing the prerequisites for dealing with this matter, using time, etc., instead of, as I requested in my post, clarifying what is actually the Workers' Party's opinion on this matter. As the representative of Werp was involved, one is divided into this matter. I think it's an honest thing that the left clearly explains that you don't want this kind of tightening, that you don't want tightened penalties. It's a fair thing to say. The party of progress and the Right believes something else. The government is of a different opinion. But we still don't know what the country's two largest opposition parties mean. What the Center Party and the Workers' Party believe in this matter is cryptic, it's an enigma, it's probably something we'll never know before September 11. It seems a little special, all the time we're going to run a campaign, and it's not completely unnatural to demand a position from the country's largest opposition parties in what is an important matter, which generates a big debate, which puts emotions in motion, and which many have opinions about. It is democracy in the open that there are lively debates. One must not refuse to debate unpleasant topics, but actually take part in the change of words. It is possible to blame the processes – it is possible to take that position, but it is the Storting itself, after all, who has suggested that this matter is being dealt with today. It's not up to me to have any idea about it, but I stress that it's done good processes and good investigations. This has been discussed in public space, and it has been repeatedly investigated since 1981. This matter is well-informed, and it is completely possible to decide here in this room today. When you choose not to do that, it seems that there is a choice made out of convenience.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2729	Truls Wickholm has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute. So the Council of State does not use the chance he has to participate in and facilitate a good climate for debate in Stortinget. Every government and every state council I think over time is well served that we have proper, good forms of debate in the Great Britain, where we don't spend time stamping each other the way we were done earlier here today. I had no expectations that the Council of State would necessarily have to take away some of its own party traps, but that he would not choose to go up here and say: I have respect for the debate, you have different places of stand, but I don't see that with this one being done today, giving a handshake to criminals or tramps on victims, so be honest we must be able to be in the debate, it seems to me to be going a little far. But I see that the council doesn't do it, so we'll take note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2741	Another attempt, as I see it, to derail the debate and talk about something quite different from what is the topic of the debate here today. I have too much respect for the Storting to correct opinions that individual representatives had to use in this room – I have too much respect for this room, and I have too much respect for the debate. My contribution and my input to this discussion is that I had not chosen to use that kind of word, but as I said in my previous post, I respect that there may be a little different vision, and that it is well justified, but that there is a disagreement. What I have requested, and which remains as the big question after the debate here today, is: What does the Labour Party really mean? The largest opposition party in the country is unable to clarify what they think about increasing penalties for people who repeatedly commit sexual abuse against children. The Working Party cannot tell us anything about this. It's a little bit special. It is possible that it can generate a climate of debate that may not be of the best interest, but at least I feel it is very important that in an election campaign one can be required to take a stand, that one can argue for them, and that then one uses reasons other than simply to blame for the process, which I perceive that the essence of the debate has been here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2749	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2765	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the treatment of Prop. 120 L for 2016-2017. Proposition is a follow-up of NOU 2012:17 on Love and Cooling Tower – Criminal issues in case of serious infectious diseases. In the proposal, the government has put forward proposals to raise the blame for gross negligence in the transmission of infectious disease and to change the disease definition to cover the transmission of diseases that cause significant damage to body or health. The Government proposes in the bill that criminal liability will not occur if proper infectious control measures have been implemented. In addition, the circle of who can give a criminal consent is proposed to be extended to any person and not just a consensual or spouse. They have also proposed that before a criminal agreement is to be given, the parties must receive infectious disease guidance together from health professionals. Furthermore, the penal framework for serious transmission of infection has been proposed to be raised from three to six years. In addition, the government has proposed a new penalty clause in Section 238 of the Penal Code on Public Hazardous Dissemination, which is essentially an editorial change. The Government also proposes that the spread of the general threat of terrorist infection be regarded as an act of terrorism, that the removal obligation be extended to cover the spread of the general dangerous disease, and that it be punishable to establish an association for the spread of the general dangerous infection. In general, the Committee has endorsed the proposals made by the government, with the exception of proposals on the pre-criminal consent system, in Section 237 of the Penal Code. The majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Progress Party – i.e. not the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party – have, following an overall assessment, proposed decisions in the vote, removing the condition that prior to the prior consent of the criminal prosecution one must have received an infectious guidance. The majority goes away from the sample recommendation. The Christian People's Party believes that it should be punishable if the partner has given prior consent, but nevertheless believes it is important that the individual is given good information so that he can make a qualified decision. That is why we are voting against the amendment to Section 237 of the Penal Code in the proposal for Decision III.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2780	I am pleased that the Justice Committee has largely supported the government's proposal for changes to the criminal law and the Criminal Procedures Act. The Government’s proposal follows up an investigation that has assessed the appropriateness of the use of penalties against infectious behaviour. Infective behaviour means infection both directly and indirectly between persons and infection into an indeterminate circle of persons, i.e. spread of infection. Like the sample, the government has concluded that both transmission and spread of infection should continue to be punishable by Norwegian law, while making certain substantive changes. The proposal has generally been supported by the Hearing Officers. On this basis, the government has proposed to continue a criminal order in Section 237 and Section 237a of the Criminal Code on the transmission of serious diseases, but with some substantive changes. The government’s proposals address medical developments in recent years regarding the treatment of HIV infection. Developments have led to HIV-infected people with successful medical treatment no longer posing a real risk of infection. The government’s proposals reflect this by making it clear in the legal text that criminal liability is not imposed where proper measures for the protection of infectious diseases have been taken, for example: for the medical treatment of HIV infection. We also propose to raise the blame from negligence to gross negligence. This is in line with the main provision chosen by the 2005 Penal Code. Furthermore, we propose to change the disease definition to include only diseases that cause significant damage to the body or health. In the proposal, the Government proposed to extend the scope of persons who could give impunity consent to any person, but on the condition that the persons must go together to the disease protection guidance of health professionals before consent can be given. I note that the majority of the Committee is in favour of non-compliance with such terms and conditions of infectious disease guidance. The background to our proposal on infectious disease guidance was to ensure that consents should be sufficiently informed. Ensuring sufficiently informed consent is also important as a result of extending the circle of persons entitled to consent. On the other hand, we did not propose that the actual consent be given under the infection protection guide or entered into the record, as the sample originally provided. I believe that our proposal on the conditions of prior infectious disease guidance provides a balanced solution, but takes note of the views of the majority of the Committee. We also propose a new penalty order in Section 238 of the Penal Code, which targets the spread of infection that poses a general risk to life or health. Such spread is already punishable by the law in force, but it has several advantages to regulate it in its own criminal law. The spread of infectious diseases differs from the transmission of infectious diseases by allowing a wider range of persons to be affected. Individuals will be less able to protect themselves against it and will often do so in business or other organised activities. An individual criminal order provides for the possibility of adapting the detailed terms of punishment to those specificities, while at the same time taking into account the criminal framework that the case may be very serious. In line with this, we are proposing a 15-year penalty framework for intentional infringement and 6 years for negligent infringement. The Proposition also proposes that terrorist infection should be affected by the terrorist code, that it should be punishable to establish a transmissible network, and that the spread of infection should be subject to the criminal deportation obligation. In addition to the amendments to the penal code, we are also proposing a new provision in the Criminal Procedures Act, which strengthens the protection of those who have been subjected to serious sexual abuse. The proposal provides for a routine examination of the infectious status of suspects. This is not the case today. In practice, the new home means that it will be known more quickly than it is today if it has been infected. In this way, we avoid that the insult that has been subjected to serious assaults also has to withstand the additional stress it actually is to go in uncertainty about the infection risk. The proposal received broad support in the hearing, and I am pleased that we are now getting a provision that strengthens the position of the offended in these serious cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2803	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2819	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2828	From time to time it is necessary to adapt the legislation to technological developments. Biometric authentication is becoming increasingly common as an access key to computer systems. According to current legislation, in certain circumstances, police have the power to seize digital material and to carry out physical investigations. These are important tools for detecting and preventing serious crime. We'll probably see even more examples of things that used to happen in the physical world, more and more being transferred to the digital arena. Then I think it is important that we as legislators are conscious of our responsibility and adapt the laws to the facts. Developments have led to a slight coincidence in which the storage medium used determines whether or not the police can in practice seize the material, cf. the 2016 Supreme Court judgment. This creates opportunities for criminals to circumvent the confiscation code, which is unlikely to be the scope of the Storting at the time of the adoption of the confiscation rules. That is the bias in the legislation we have the opportunity to rectify today, and I am pleased that we have a clear majority in this Chamber who agree with the government's assessments in this matter. The setting being presented is on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The Labour Party, the minority of the Committee, has requested that these legislative changes proposed by the government be postponed and assessed in so-called wider context, and they refer to the review carried out in the department under the Criminal Procedures Act. It is also a good position to have – as I believe it is the case rapporteur – but we and a clear majority want to make this change of law now, when the government has promoted it, and to give the police this tool as they wish. So there's a broad majority behind the vote, which in this case is promoted by the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2843	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good review of the matter. I just want to say, on behalf of the Labour Party, that the basis for our voting against is exactly what the rapporteur said, that we want this to be seen in the context of the legal work that is actually going on in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2850	I am pleased that the majority of the Judicial Committee supports the Government's proposals for legislative changes, which will ensure police access to computer systems opened by biometric authentication, where the computer system is subject to search or seizure. From time to time, the issue arises as to whether the police have access to new technologies in the investigation. The legislator cannot anticipate technological developments. Therefore, it is sometimes necessary to adapt the legislation in order to close unintended gaps. The proposal submitted by the government is precisely such an adjustment. The laws will allow the police to require anyone in possession of a computer system subject to search or seizure to open the computer system with fingerprints or other methods of biometric authentication. The legislative changes will also provide the police with a clear basis to impose coercion on those who do not comply with such a biometric authentication requirement. The criminal law requirement to impose and enforce must be necessary and proportionate will, of course, apply. The legislative changes are necessary for the police to have the necessary means to effectively investigate criminal offences. It is becoming more and more common to use fingerprints, iris recognition or other methods of biometric authentication to unlock mobile phones or other computer systems. The content of these types of units may constitute decisive evidence in criminal matters. It is therefore important to ensure police access to computer systems opened by biometric authentication, if necessary by coercion. The legislative changes have their background in a decision of the Supreme Court of August 2016. The Supreme Court concluded that the police in the specific case did not have the authority to use coercion against the defendant in order to get him to open his cell phone with fingerprint authentication. The Government’s proposed legislative changes were supported in the consultation by a majority of the hearing bodies. A majority of the hearing bodies also consider that there is an urgent need to establish a legal framework as proposed. I have noted the views of the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, that the Government ‘Should await the examination of this Bill to the Stortinge to be submitted to the notified overall review and proposals for amendments to the Criminal Procedures Act that are expected to arrive at the Stortinge in a short time’. I agree with these members that it may be challenging to get the overall overview of coercive measures when minor changes are made several times, and that there is a need for a comprehensive review. Such a review will be obtained with the follow-up to the Criminal Procedures Committee’s investigation into new criminal law. However, the work on new criminal law will take some time — but perhaps no more than the members of the Workers' Party see fit when they suggest that treatment in the Storing should take place ‘not long’. But it's urgent to put in place a biometric authentication coercive helmet in situations where a computer system is already being searched or seized. It is not satisfactory to wait for the entry into force of a new criminal law. The government will facilitate police use of the necessary tools to effectively investigate criminal offences, while taking sufficient account of citizens’ protection against tampering. I am pleased that we can now present this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2872	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th We call the vote on the matter No. 1-15.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2924	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2936	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e2945	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Environmental Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for the 2018 government budget to propose a new renewable energy support scheme that contributes both to a significant increase in power generation and to the commercialisation of immature technology.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e3021	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e3031	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4132	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4142	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4151	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide that the limit of time at which peat harvesting is always to be carried out is to be reduced from 1500 to 800 pieces. Peat withdrawals of less than 800 covers or the extension of existing withdrawals of the same size shall, as a general rule, not be subject to consistency — unless there are particularly important environmental and societal reasons to this effect.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4178	There is a vote on proposals 2 and 3 from the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: the third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 5-3 is replaced by the following: Other representatives of key stakeholders shall be invited to participate in the meetings of the Platform Forum.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Articles 5 to 3 shall be replaced by the following: The meetings of the Regional Plan Forum shall be open to the public and the media.’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4438	It is quoted above in Section 11-8, third paragraph, point (c). The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4452	It is quoted above in the third paragraph of Section 12-2 and the second sentence of the third paragraph of Section 12-3. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4466	It is quoted above in Section 20-4, second paragraph, and Section 20-5, second paragraph, first sentence. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4480	It is contested in the first paragraph of Section 21-7. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4495	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to I New § 32-8a, first paragraph, introductory part, and proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 32-8a, introductory phrase, is replaced by the following: Any person who proposes a regulatory plan or measures and plans under other legislation may be liable to an infringement fee if it is intentional and grossly negligent:’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4512	It is voted over the sixth paragraph of New § 32-8a. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4526	The remainder of I and II and III are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4536	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4546	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4796	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4806	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4815	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Morten Wold on behalf of the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘‘Derogation to law amending Law No 2 June 1989 27 on the marketing of alcoholic beverages n.e.c. I [[alcohol law]] Paragraphs 8 to 9 shall be replaced by the following: The prohibition on drinking alcohol in the park referred to in point 1 of the first subparagraph. 5 does not apply where the drink contains less than 22 % by volume of alcohol. II The law shall enter into force immediately.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4860	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-4, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Right Party and the Progress Party proposal No 5, from Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No 7-9, from Pål Farstad on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 92 L On amendments to the concession law, the law of the land and the law of the land, etc. [[2016-2017]] [[Concession obligation, cropland, price control, division and driving obligation, etc.]] sent back to the government.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4896	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the proposal to exempt forest and land-use property from the concession law as such, exemptions linked to land limits such as 3000 deches, and at the same time to investigate an increase of 500 deches in productive forest in the concession law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4911	There is a vote on proposal No. Seven from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks to come back with an assessment as to whether the assignment of land to residential, leisure or naust may be managed at a regional level.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4928	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 12 May 1995 No 23 on soil are amended as follows: Section 8 is replaced by the following: § 8 Obligation to provide services Agricultural land shall be drifted. The obligation to drive applies to the entire owner-occupancy period. A new owner must decide within one year whether to operate the property himself or to lease out the agricultural area according to the provisions of the second subparagraph. The obligation to drive can be fulfilled by renting out the land as an additional land to other agricultural property. It is a provision for the professional obligation to be fulfilled by repossessing that the lease is at least 10 years at a time without the right of the owner to cancel it. The appointment must lead to an operationally sound solution and be written. Agreements resulting in operationally adverse solutions may be followed up as a breach of the obligation to provide services. The owner must send a copy of the agreement to the municipality. A lease that conflicts with a second or third sentence cannot be made active between the parties or in relation to public governance. If the department finds that the agricultural area is not managed, the owner may be required to rent the land away for a period of up to 10 years, or that the land is to be planted with forests, or measures for the protection of the cultural landscape.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e4955	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 November 2003 98 on the concession by acquisition of real estate, etc. It shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 4, first paragraph, point (b) 3 is replaced by the following: other uninhabited areas, if they are situated in an area regulated by a regulatory plan for purposes other than agriculture, nature and outdoors and reindeer management, or laid out in the area area of the municipal plan for the purpose of construction and installations, or if the property is not more than 3000 deches and without agricultural land. Paragraph 4, first paragraph, point (b) 4 is replaced by the following: Built-in property not exceeding 3000 decks which do not have an inland parcel of more than 100 decks or which have a full-grown and surface-grown land of more than 35 decks. Paragraph 5, second paragraph, first and second sentences are replaced by the following: In the case of the acquisition of built-up property where full-scale and surface-grown land is more than 35 deches, or the property consists of more than 3000 deches, the freedom of concession referred to in paragraph 1 shall be that of the first subparagraph. 1 and 2 on condition that the transferee settles on the property within one year and is himself resident for at least five years.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 November 2003 98 on the concession by acquisition of real estate, etc. It shall be amended as follows: Section 5 is replaced by the following: § 5 Concession is not necessary where the transferee is: [[exemptions on the basis of the position of the transferee]] 1. the spouse of the owner, or is related to the owner or the spouse of the owner in a straight ascending or descending line, or in the first line of the owner or spouse, up to and including the children of the sibling, or is in union with the owner in a straight ascending line, provided that the owner has his concessional relationship in order. However, the obligation to grant a concession may result from the second paragraph of Section 7. 2. the title of the property. 3rd state. 4. the county or municipality in which the property is situated, where the acquisition relates to a property in the area covered by a municipal plan or plan of regulation under the Planning and Building Act, and the property in the plan is allocated to a non-agricultural area or acquired by expropriation. A municipal land company in which the municipality concerned has at least half of the capital and the majority of the board of directors shall be treated in the same way as the municipality in respect of the freedom of concession provided for in this paragraph. 5. bank or other institution authorised by the King in this context, where the acquisition is made through forced sale in order to rescue a claim for which the transferee has the right to pledge in the property. The property must be resold within two years. That period shall be counted from the confirmation of the auction offer and may be extended by the ministry. 6. the person acquiring a neighbouring property as an additional land or forest. In the case of the acquisition of built-up property where full-scale and surface-grown land is more than 35 deches, or the property consists of more than 3000 deches, the freedom of concession referred to in paragraph 1 shall be that of the first subparagraph. 1 and 2 on condition that the transferee settles on the property within one year and is himself resident for at least five years. This is a built-up property that is or has been used as an all-year dwelling. The same applies to residential property which has not been used as an all-year dwelling, including residential property under construction if housing permits have been granted for residential purposes. If surviving spouses acquire property from their deceased spouse as owner or in the event of a change, the residence shall have been completed before the takeover is counted against the term of the obligation. The first and second paragraphs apply mutatis mutandis to consensual spouses. As consensual residents according to the provision here, consensual residents who fulfil the conditions of Section 28(a) of the Inheritance Act are considered. Freedom of concession under point 1 of the first subparagraph 6 is conditional on: 1. there is a written agreement between the transferor and the transferee; 2. the acquisition applies to the entire property, with the exception of, where appropriate, tuna not exceeding 5 decks and inhabited by residential buildings; and 3. the transferee owns property with more than 35 decas of full-grown or surface-grown land or 500 decas of productive forest, and fulfils the obligation to operate according to law § 8 on his property. Paragraph 13, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: The king may set a time limit for the transferee to apply for a concession if: 1. the time limit for compulsory use according to the second paragraph of Section 3 is exceeded. 2. the transferee fails to build within 5 years in breach of the second paragraph of Section 4. 3. the transferee makes a change in use in contravention of the plan pursuant to the third or fourth subparagraphs of Section 4. 4. acquires as referred to in Section 5, first paragraph, point (b) of the first paragraph; 1 or 2 do not comply with the obligation to live under the second paragraph of Section 5. 5. acquires as referred to in Section 5, first paragraph, point (b) of the first paragraph; 5 does not comply with the deadline for resale. 6. the requirement to settle under the third paragraph of Section 7 cf. Paragraph 6 is not complied with. 7. the conditions for acquiring concessional rights under point 5 of the first subparagraph; 6 is not met. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e5079	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to conduct a public inquiry into agricultural ownership with the aim of increasing the turnover of agricultural property, reducing the share of land rented and active owners.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e5096	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 4, second paragraph, of the Law on Concession by Acquisition of Real Estate etc. [[Concession Act]] shall be deleted.’;» The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e5113	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the consequences of further liberalisation of the concession obligation in addition to the legal changes that are now being adopted for purely forested properties’.» The right-wing party and the Progressive Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e5369	The second paragraph of Section 18 above is added.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e5379	It is votered over III New § 12 a. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e5393	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e5399	54 representatives then voted against the Committee's position and 47 representatives voted in favour. It is votered over II, III § 8, IV § 5, § 9, first paragraph no. 1, § 9, fourth paragraph, first and second sentences, New § 9 a and V paragraphs 2–5. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e5415	Other paragraphs I, III, IV and V(1) shall be deleted. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e5429	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e5443	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e5542	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e5552	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e6029	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e6039	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. I The Government asks the Government to submit as soon as possible proposals for an amendment to the Public Law § 5 corresponding to the fourth paragraph of Section 16 of the proposal for the EOS Control Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e6339	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e6349	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e6648	It is voted on in New Section 12, first paragraph, points (b) and (c). The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e6663	The remainder of I and II and III are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e6673	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e6683	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e6692	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Peter Christian Frølich on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party proposal No 2, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 3, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 4, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the effectiveness of various criminal practices to be assessed in order to create a criminal system contributing to rehabilitation.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e6724	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. Here, Kari Henriksen has made an amendment to the proposal. The word ‘identity impairments’ has been replaced by ‘integrity impairments’. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a public body to assess the need to increase the level of penalties for serious integrity violations’. The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e6743	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to investigate how to increase the level of penalties for serious integrity violations, in particular in the light of cases of competition.’ The Labour Party has now announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e6760	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 20 May 2005 No 28 on punishment shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 43, first paragraph, third sentence, is replaced by the following: In determining common penalties under the third paragraph of Section 79(a) of the Criminal Code, the court may lay down a time-frame which may not exceed 26 years. The current third to the fifth sentence becomes the fourth to the new sixth sentence. Paragraph 79 is replaced by the following: § 79 The imposition of penalties beyond the criminal framework If one or more of the situations referred to in points (a) to (c) exist, the penalties provided for shall be increased as follows: [[several offences, repetition, organised crime]] (a) where, in one or more acts, a criminal offence has committed more than one offence and a common penalty is to be imposed, the penalties provided for in the strictest penalty shall be increased up to twice but never higher than the sum of the penalties. The penalty shall not be increased by more than 6 years and not more than 21 years, except for an increase after the third paragraph of this point. The sentence is increased to a maximum of 26 years in prison if two or more of the offences are punishable by imprisonment for up to 15 years or more. For persons under 18 at the time of action, the penalty framework is not increased beyond 15 years. The increase in the penalties provided for in this point only applies to legal provisions which have provided for the imposition of a higher penalty framework. (b) Where a previously convicted person has again committed a criminal offence of the same nature as he has previously been convicted in this State or abroad, the penalties shall be increased until twice as long as the offender decides otherwise. The penalty rate is not increased by more than 6 years and not beyond 21 years. The increase in the penalties provided for under this point only applies when the conviction had reached the age of 18 at the time of the previous criminal offence and has committed the new act after the penalty for the previous offence has been fully or partially enforced. If the new criminal offence is punishable for more than 1 year, the penalty shall not be increased if the new offence is committed later than 6 years after the execution of the previous sentence has ended, unless otherwise decided. If the new criminal offence is punishable for 1 year or less, it may not have been more than 2 years after the execution has been completed. The increase in the penalties provided for in this point only applies to legal provisions which have provided for the imposition of a higher penalty framework. (c) Where an offence has been committed as part of the activities of an organised criminal group, the penalties shall be increased until twice. The penalty rate is not increased by more than 6 years and not beyond 21 years, and for persons under 18 at the time of action, not more than 15 years. An organised criminal group means a cooperation between three or more persons whose main purpose is to commit an act punishable by imprisonment for at least 3 years or who assume that a non-negligible part of the activity is to commit such acts. The increase in the penalties provided for in this point shall apply to legal provisions conferring legal effect on the criminal framework, unless otherwise provided.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e6953	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e6963	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7109	It is voted over Section III, Section 237. The Christian People’s Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7123	I couldn't vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7128	Then 86 representatives voted in favour and 12 representatives voted against the Committee's position. It shall be weighed over I, II, IV and V and the rest of III.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7140	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7150	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7190	The Labour Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7202	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7216	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. This means that Stortinget has voted in case No. 1–15, and we go back to the things on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7235	Norway’s national human rights institution is a young institution, but important. In our time, when unrest and insecurity characterise many countries and important human rights are subjected to pressure and breaking, it is an important signal from the Stortinget that we want to strengthen the work of human rights by establishing this institution, subject to the Stortinget. It is gratifying to record, and to congratulate, that the institution has now been granted the ‘A’ status of the Board of Directors of the International Network of National Institutes for Human Rights, GANHRI. Thus, the Stortinget’s assumption that the institution should comply with the international principles for the status of national institutions, the so-called Paris principles, is fulfilled. The Committee is in agreement in its position, and I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation in order to arrive at a unified understanding of how the Stortinget can respond to the recommendations of the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights in the best possible way. I would also like to thank the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights for good information and dialogue on the challenges the institution points to. Cooperation and follow-up will develop over time and, there will be scope for good further dialogue on how the Storting can best follow the recommendations of the institution in the years to come. Norway’s national human rights institution has highlighted three main challenges. One of the recommendations is on single asylum seekers and their care services. The recommendation is to provide equivalent offers to lone minor asylum seekers and other children with child protection. The other one is about the right of seamen to sea fishing. The recommendation is to ensure that the rights of seafarers are clarified in the law so that legislation ensures that interventions which may affect the material cultural basis of seafarers are adequately investigated. The third point is a concrete proposal for a comprehensive review of whether coercive use in accordance with the Criminal Procedures Act § 222 d and the Police Act § 17 d are compatible with the Second sentence of the Basic Law. The Committee found that the best way to follow up these recommendations is to propose that the government review these recommendations and return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with regard to the follow-up of the recommendations. A unanimous committee is behind this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7250	The majority of the population and the government are responsible for the observance of human rights in Norway. National institutions are an important – and will be, I believe, an increasingly important – contributor and pre-dispenser for how we manage our responsibilities. This is the second annual report from NIM that Stortinget is going to deal with, and we in the Center Party think it's done a good job. The institution's main tasks include: to contribute to information on human rights and to provide advice and recommendations to the responsible authorities to ensure respect for the international obligations we have. Part of the mandate for NIM is to advise the Stortingen on the human rights situation in Norway, etc. by giving this annual message to Stortinget. Of course, Norway’s national institution should benefit in addition to the annual reporting. How this is going to happen is also new for Stortinget, and the road becomes as we go. The fact that NIM is an independent institution provides some guidance for the relationship between Stortinget and NIM. Last spring, Stortinget will deal with the Annual Report from NIM for 2015. Since the organisation was newly created at that time, the annual report was not long, but it pointed out a direction for which the institution would work, and how they would do this. Last year's debate in the Stortinget expressed high expectations for NIM. It is therefore good to see that the institution has followed closely in the past year and that they come with a full annual report containing recommendations in a number of areas. Of the issues addressed by NIM in the Annual Report, several are still on the agenda of the Judicial Committee. The theme I am particularly busy with is freedom of speech and press freedom. These are among the themes mentioned in the NIM Annual Report. They show that both of these dishes are under pressure internationally, and they conclude that freedom of expression in Norway still has a strong protection, but there are also more developments in us that we would be wise to observe. We can do something about it through legislation, other things not. Because of technological developments, we're facing some problems that we haven't had before. As a result, we still have to follow and take action in line with developments in society, to ensure that human rights are respected. Like several other human rights laws, freedom of expression is not absolute. It has to be weighed against other dishes, and it has to be made subject to mandatory border crossings. For example, the importance of freedom of expression in some cases must be balanced against the concerns of privacy or other important social interests, such as social security at large. Not least, we must live with the paradox that some statements may have negative consequences for freedom of expression in themselves, such as when hateful statements cause some voices to be deterred from participating in the public debate. There must be good and thorough assessments in order to balance the concerns, and there is no easy exercise. Many more themes have been discussed in the annual NIM report, and it is not possible to address them all. What I want to say on the tape is that I'm going to include myself in the work on Stortinget. In its thematic reports, NIM has been hard hit against the authorities in some cases. It's probably better for those who are in opposition than for those who are in their position when NIM delivers criticism of decisions taken, but it's important to remember that there's just such advice to the authorities that are at the heart of the work NIM is set to do. They must have boasted that as a relatively new institution, they are clear and untrue in the fight to promote human rights. The institution has already demonstrated the ability to fulfil the role of critical counterweight to the authorities. I hope they keep doing this in the future. In a democratic society, the Biggest and changing governments themselves need to figure out how we stand up to the advice we get.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7271	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7287	It is a co-consultant's committee which has submitted adjournment following the examination of the annual report on the legal compensation scheme for 2016. The judicial compensation scheme is the Stortingen’s own scheme, where individuals may apply for discretionary compensation from the State when the person concerned has been found to have suffered a particular accident and has suffered damage or disadvantage that is not covered by general claims rules or by social security, insurance or compensation schemes. It's a system based on custom. The cases are decided by the Supreme Court Justice Committee, and it is the State Civil Court administration that has been given the task of secretariat for the selection. The Committee notes that the selection has held 10 meetings and decided 407 cases in 2016. Applications under the specific arrangements have stabilised on less than 100 cases per year. Applications by general scheme have varied, but have doctors relatively stable on about 400 cases per year in recent years. The Committee notes that 25.8 million were paid in 2016. kr in legal compensation from the State, approx. Five million. kr less than in 2014 and 2015. The Committee notes that the overall average duration of proceedings has fallen slightly, from 17 to 14 months, and welcomes it. Finally, I would like to stress that this is an important scheme. These are individual matters of importance. And that's not least part of our common history. We would therefore like to thank the Court of Justice for its work and stress the importance of all matters being dealt with as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7300	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7317	When the dog law came in 2003, it was an important law. First of all, the rules of dog-holding were collected in a law, and second, humans were given a protection against dogs, in a way similar to protection against bumps. It is said that the dog is man’s best friend. We all remember "We at the Salt Crow" and "Båtsmann". But even Båtsmann was a wolf in sheep's clothing, or at least the breed Sanktbernhardshund. The Danish Animal Alliance has shown that exactly that breed is actually the race in Denmark that has the most unwanted behavior. Unwanted behavior can be so often. We know dogs can both eat and bite. What this behaviour is actually due to – therefore there is some disagreement in the professional community. Is this due to the dog's owner, or is it due to the dog and the dog's breed? At the time of the adoption of the Dog Act in 2003, a ban was imposed on certain breeds of dogs, based on the theory that some breeds were more dangerous and more aggressive than others. This claim and this assumption have really come under pressure in several European countries since 2003. Among other things, the Netherlands and Italy have lifted the ban on some dog breeds. Now it's been 14 years since the dog law was passed. There is also some new knowledge in this area. There are different perceptions of whether unwanted behaviour in dogs is due to the breed of dogs, or whether it is due to the owner. Against this background and a few other aspects of the proposal that I have not touched on, there is an overall committee that is behind the position that the Storting is dealing with today in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7328	I'm not going to go out on an already long meeting, but as a proposer, and since we're not represented in the committee, I just want to say a few words on this matter. The first is that many of the questions raised in the proposal for a representative are issues that involve many – for good reason. I want to say that I am pleased that the committee has been so kind in its treatment that one here concludes that it is worth looking at these issues. There were three concrete proposals in the draft representative. I do not take them back up here today, I perceive that what is agreed, so far as is covering, and I see that it is wise to have a process. But I believe and hope that the proposals that have been put forward and the speeches in the draft representative will be included in the work to be done by the government. There's a lot of professional care that speaks for and against in different directions here, so I think it's good that we get a good process. But it is clear, as the case-speaker also mentions, that there are different assessments in different countries, and there has been a good deal since the last time we had this round in Norway, and other countries have chosen different solutions than us, on a professional basis. I want to say that I am happy that the committee ends that here we need to look at the laws again. I think a lot of people out there are happy about that too. Then we get to hope that that work will not be too time consuming and take too long, but that one comes back with a case to the Stortinget as soon as one has done a thorough job in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7339	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7356	I thank the representatives for promoting this proposal, which also contains important and good proposals. But I have to say that it would have served the whole matter if the representatives had actively participated in the Storting's treatment of the escalation plan against violence and assault, instead of the day after promoting this proposal. Although the plan of escalation is initially aimed at combating violence and abuse against children, the government parties and cooperation parties here in Stortinget have helped to make a good government plan even better, and it could certainly have improved even if the Workers' Party had wanted to contribute constructively to the treatment. Many of the measures in the escalation plan are not related to age, but include all forms of violence in close relationships. When we do not vote in favour of the proposals, it is because many of the measures are already in place. There is no doubt that we agree with the proposers that knowledge of violence, abuse or care failure towards the elderly is important in order to take targeted action. There is an overall committee which shares the concern of the proposers that many older people are being subjected to different types of abuse and that there may be darkness. Combating violence in close relations is a priority area for government and cooperation parties. We have strengthened measures and appropriations in this area throughout our reign, and it will also be important in the course of the process. As far as knowledge of the extent of violence against the elderly is concerned, we already have some knowledge, and a number of measures are in place to monitor the occurrence of violence — including against the elderly. The scope survey of the NKVTS in 2014, with a representative sample of 18 to 74 years of age, showed that the extent of violence in close relations and rape in Norway is high, but at the same time this showed that the older age groups reported less violence than the younger. It's set at 50 million. DKK over a five-year period to strengthen research into violence in close relationships. This research covers a wide range of themes, will allow for the follow-up of developments over time and will contribute to a better basis for the implementation of measures to prevent and combat violence in close relations. To further strengthen the knowledge base on violence against the elderly, NKVTS is monitoring lifetime prevalence of violence in close relationships between the population aged 66 and over. In the case of information to the elderly on existing relief measures, different measures have also been taken here. Among other things, a national contact telephone is established for the elderly exposed to violence. In 2017, nearly 40 million have been allocated. kr to various help telephones and network services. However, it may be necessary to look at the different help phones and network services — whether one is able to reach those who really need the offer. All police districts of the country will be established in 2017 by the victims' health services. Victim care agencies shall provide psychosocial support, follow-up, information and guidance to victims throughout the criminal proceedings. Offices shall unload users for professional assistance in municipal and state auxiliaries. A very important target group of offices is exposed to violence in close relationships. Finally, in this case, as in many other cases, it is important with knowledge – that employees in businesses working with older people have knowledge of violence, can see the danger signals and know what to do about it. It is the municipalities that are responsible for a crisis centre offer. In February 2015, the Guide to the Crisis Centres Act was presented. Another important function in the work will, of course, be police contacts, which should be the link between the municipalities and the police. They need to make sure that they have knowledge and knowledge of this important subject. Not least, I have great confidence in the near-police reform when it comes to investigating and prosecuting violence in close relationships – no matter what age group we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7381	Storting representative Lene Vågslid one day told a strong story about something that happened a few years ago. It's a story of an older couple who needed help and care, medicine, etc. There was a nurse who had told me about this, she worked at home and was daily inside the couple. The lady she was visiting was often yellow and blue on her body for a period of time – it was easy to fall and hit her, she said. The nurse then thought that the older lady might want a scooter to lean on, so that there was not so much bang and fall. She got it, but the bruises held out. In the meantime, the nurse was on the course on violence in close relationships – an initiative the municipality had taken. The next two times she was at home with the couple, the older lady would no longer shower. The nurse thought this was strange, and thought that something might be wrong. After a good talk when the nurse both said and asked about the right things, it turned out that the husband was violent at home. There are probably many such stories as the Lene Wagslid told. It is a sub-communicated social problem that many older people also live with violence in close relationships. The Labour Party believes that older people too need to be seen and heard, and we need to take their legal certainty seriously. That violence against the elderly both needs and deserves more attention, there is no doubt about it. We know that happens, both at home and at institutions. We don't know enough about the scale. That is why we believe it is important to carry out an extensive study, in order to gain greater knowledge of this area. We know that some municipalities have had both training and skills for their employees in the care and care sectors, but more knowledge is needed, both in education and in the sector. It is important that older people themselves receive good information about violence and existing measures. The threshold before you can do anything about it is very high for many. It is not particularly easy for older people to get to a crisis centre. Many of the elderly depend on others to be seen and not least to be understood. A good childhood lasts life, it's called. It is also important to remember a worthy old age and a worthy care for the elderly. A worthy old age must be free from violence and free from abuse. A short time ago, the Judicial Committee examined the Government's proposal for a rapprochement plan against violence in close relations. As we know, the Workers' Party believed that it was both unobligatory and unfavorable, so we proposed to send this plan back. One cannot, with respect for all age groups and the quality of life of people in all stages of life, refrain from having violence against the elderly in a rapture plan against violence in close relations and omitting such a large and important group. My clear impression is that the government is not working well enough across departments, against violence in close relations – whether it be the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, the Minister of Justice or the Minister of Health. For four years we have called for better interaction on violence in close relationships. The fact that the government is able to deliver such a thin plan against violence in close relationships and does not even have concrete measures aimed at violence against the elderly is far too poor and completely incomprehensible. The working party believes this needs to be addressed. That is why we and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are promoting proposals for this today. It is a pity that it is only the Workers' Party and the Center Party who see the need to strengthen the work against violence against the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7402	The representative Jorodd Asphjell has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7407	Work against violence in close relations is a priority area for the government. It's violence that goes on regardless of age, that creates insecurity and fear in the environment that would be safe. I would like to thank the proposers for putting the search light on the elderly as a vulnerable group for violence in close relations. The older part of the population is more vulnerable in abusive situations and may often be in a relationship with the perpetrator. The possibility of detachment and re-establishment is reduced by increasing age. When we also know that violence against the elderly belongs to the most hidden and most accessible form of violence in the population, there is every reason to take this seriously, and this government does. The action plan against violence in close relationships is a central instrument and contains a number of measures relevant to the elderly. Our actions in this area are general and do not relate to the age of the offended. Representatives promote three concrete proposals for strengthening efforts to combat violence against the elderly. A comprehensive study, better and more accessible information and, finally, a strengthening of the knowledge of violence against older people in municipalities and among those who meet older people in their work are requested. I agree with the proposers that knowledge of the extent, causes, character and consequences of violence is essential for targeted prevention and good quality in the relief services and in the police. No specific national scope study on violence against the elderly has been carried out in Norway, but this thematic area is part of the five-year research programme on violence in close relations funded by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The report ‘Community action plans against violence in close relations — also for the elderly vulnerable?’ was launched in 2016. It has been examined whether municipal action plans against violence in close relations include older people at risk. To further strengthen the basis of competence in violence against the elderly, NKVTS is monitoring lifetime prevalence of violence in close relations with the population — those 66 years of age or older. Through this project, we will get several points of view on how the prevention of violence should be directed towards the older age group. On behalf of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Institute of Public Health, in cooperation with the Directorate of Health, has carried out an assessment of available data sources with a view to developing possible indicators of violence in close relationships. Work report will be sent to the Ministry of Health and Welfare shortly. With this as a hindrance, I find, like the majority of the committee, that there is no need for further action at this stage. With regard to the need for more targeted information for the elderly exposed to violence in close relationships, a national contact telephone has already been established for the elderly exposed to violence. The ‘Protection of the Elderly — National Contact Telephone’ project was established in 2008. Work is in progress to make the services more known to the auxiliaries. The other information measures on violence in close relationships are directed at the whole population. The police information campaign ‘How little are you going to find yourself in?’ is an example of this. The aim of the campaign is to give increased attention and knowledge of violence in close relationships, and of what the police can help with, so that the victim can seek help and get out of the violent situation. I will also bring forward the website dinutvej.no, on violence in close relations and rape, which was launched in 2016. The portal provides up-to-date and quality-assured information to vulnerable people, relatives, practitioners and auxiliaries on violence in close relations and rape. During 2017, we will also establish victim care offices in each of the 12 police districts of the country. Victim care agencies shall provide psychosocial support, follow-up, information and guidance to victims throughout the criminal proceedings. A very important target group of offices is exposed to violence in close relationships. Victim welfare offices shall be located with the police. Overall, I believe that the information measures we have already undertaken to a large extent respond to the needs of the proposers. However, I will continue to assess the need for even more targeted measures. Good knowledge is a prerequisite for providing good care. I therefore support the intentions of the proposal to strengthen the level of knowledge both in the municipality and in the first line. In the context of the implementation of the close police reform, a function such as police contact should be established, such as a link and contact point between the police and the municipality. This will be an important contribution to the dissemination of knowledge about violence against the elderly and how this can be detected and prevented. Crisis centres offer all victims of violence in close relationships, regardless of age and gender. A guide to the Crisis Centres Act has been developed, with the main target group being the municipalities, which, under the Crisis Centres Act, is entrusted with the responsibility of providing a crisis centre offer, as well as supervisors. NKVTS has compiled an overview of existing routine guides and monitoring tools in the auxiliaries for the detection of violence in close relationships. The overview provides a basis for assessing the areas in which new routine guides or guidelines are needed, and shows, among other things, the need for guidance. shortcomings related to guidance on the detection of violence against the elderly and child care failures as well as the detection of violence in the field of mental health protection against children and adults. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has carried out a survey of how the Nav offices are involved in issues dealing with violence in close relationships. The study has been followed up by revising the supervisor on violence in close relations. In the end, I would like to mention that the Ministry of Health and Welfare has promoted a bill for the Stortinget on the responsibilities of health care services for preventing, detecting and averting violence and sexual abuse, and that this should be made clear. This will further contribute to increased awareness of and accountability for the prevention, detection and averting of violence and sexual abuse in the provision of health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7445	This proposal from the Labour Party addresses an important problem that is still taboo in many ways, namely violence against the elderly. An international review from 2015 of available studies in the field showed that assaults against the elderly are more common than we want to believe. Older people with reduced cognitive capacity, physical impairment or psychosocial distress are at increased risk of abuse. Infringements against the elderly may include mental, physical and sexual abuse, care failure and economic exploitation. According to the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, most abuses occur against the elderly in the private sector and from those close to them. These may be spouses, children, grandchildren, relatives, auxiliary staff or others upon whom the elderly are dependent. In an institution, there may be an employee or another resident. Astrid Sandmoe, of the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, took a doctorate in 2011 with the theme ‘Parents who are subjected to abuse by persons in their community’. She explains that the figures are internationally cracking, among other things. because different methods of data collection are used, and there are different perceptions of the nature of violence and abuse against the elderly. But the studies from England and Ireland are solid, and they can provide us with a basis for comparison. In the elderly in Norway, it is estimated that between 2 and 3 pst. experiences violence in close relationships. If you expand your perspective and think that close relationships also include friends, neighbors, or others the older person has a close relationship to, the number is raised to about 4 pst. by the population. In Norway, as the Minister of Justice also said, we do not have very good occurrence studies. We have some smaller studies and living conditions studies, but they catch up to a small extent with the older part of the population. Astrid Sandmoe stresses that men too are subjected to violence, as we all know, but men are more often affected by violence outside the home, while women are more often hit in the home. The Labour Party has another draft representative for treatment in Stortinget, Document 8:89 S for 2016–2017, which calls for an action plan for the mental health of the elderly, precisely with proposals to strengthen efforts in the primary health service for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of mental disorders in the elderly. A municipal action plan in this field will also reveal whether an older person is or has been subjected to violence. Through several good measures that can lie in such a plan, we will be able to catch up with the elderly who do not dare, or have the courage, to tell about their own experiences of violence, such as violence. is committed by a related person. Such an action plan as this is somewhat more concrete and clearly directed towards older people than information. Then we can discover more and also find out more about some of the mental problems and anxiety of the elderly due to just violence. But unfortunately, it doesn't look like the government parties are doing well to support the good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7456	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7472	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7481	The digitisation of justice is essential both to improve legal certainty and to obtain efficiency gains. Long time trial is itself a problem for legal certainty. I will briefly explain how the majority thinks, and then I will assume that the rapporteurs themselves will present the proposal. I am pleased that the government has launched the project for new procedural solutions, which will lead to more digitisation in the courts. The Digital Courts project covers nine years and has a total investment cost of an estimated 350 million. SEK, of which 26 million. kr in the budget for 2017. The government has long been clear that digitisation of the courts is important, and I believe it is important that it comes into place as soon as possible. At the same time, strengthening of the courts is a cross-political objective, and I hope that, together, both the position and the opposition can provide for a strengthening of the courts. That the government has employed over 70 new lawyers and approx. 1 000 new policemen have also led to an increase in the burden of justice. More things are coming there. This is something we have to take over, and make sure that the courts get the necessary attention in the future. I am especially pleased to have been involved in getting a pass for a trial project with audio and video recording in the courts. This is now being tried out in Tromsø. This is an important contribution to legal certainty and a legal certainty measure for which my own party has fought for years. Sound and image will also in the long term lead to efficiency gains in the courts, which could also help with capacity. We see that there are some challenges in the courts, and that the budgetary situation can sometimes be difficult. I am very pleased that the Progress Party, together with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, in the revised national budget, has found room for further strengthening of the budgets of the courts by 5 million. kr. this year. We are quite united in welcoming this digitisation and, of course, we want all courts to have this digitisation in the long term. Now we're in the middle of a trial project, we're in the middle of a project with new procedural solutions that you've set up for a run. I think it's important that it goes its way. And of course, if you want full digitization, it'll also cost you money. It is important that the Storting prioritise this in the annual budgets, so that this is put in place, and does not, if necessary, ensure that the Court of Justice imposes something that could lead to the need to take money from other operations in order to promote digitisation. It is important that the government parties and the supporting parties have invested fresh funds for this project, as we have done in the current year's budget, and that it will also be put in place in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7496	It is important to facilitate the effectiveness of the courts. Long court proceedings may lead to disadvantages and financial losses for both individuals and businesses. There may be an extra feeling for the parties in both criminal and civil cases if there is too long waiting before the case comes to court. In addition, witnesses may think of the poorer and the Witnesses thus become less worldly. We in the Center Party are concerned that all courts should be effective, both large and small, and that all courts must therefore have the same opportunity to apply new technology. The proposers point out that the administration of the Court of Justice has made considerable cuts in the staffing of the courts over the coming years due to the so-called red tape and efficiency reform, the ABE reform. These ABE-cuts also have an emphasis on concerns among the leaders of the Norwegian Judicial Association and the Association of Lawyers, who both warn against longer trial periods in the courts as a result of the ABE-cut, because they come at the same time as the cause and complexity of the cases increases. The government has implemented the so-called ABE reform in the annual Statebudgets, a reform aimed at red tape and efficiency improvement. In practice, reform is about cutting budgets to such an extent that they are forced to cut the number of additional and/or other expenditure. The centre party also believes that it is important to turn the heads and make sure that red tape is done, but is in doubt about forcing the courts to cut down jurisdictions debt like such a measure. The rule rule is hardly a bureaucracy. Unfortunately, it also turns out that the number of places, as mentioned above, is increasing, and there is cause for concern. This red tape and efficiencies reform involves significant economic cuts, which must be followed up with concrete measures to facilitate the effectiveness of the courts. Such an efficiency measure is the ongoing Digital Courts project, which is now being implemented in the Supreme Court, the Lawyers' Courts and the twelve largest district courts. The possibility of using more modern work tools can lead to a more efficient procedure. However, the small and medium-sized district courts are excluded from the project, which may lead to advocacy of these rights when it comes to both workability and procedural time. This is bad in itself, but it is also bad because it may tend to create a political agenda that some parties have, to make it easier for smaller courts to settle in the long term. The central party in this proposal for a representative states that we believe that all the district courts in Norway should be digitised. It can be, for example, by including small and medium-sized property rights in the Digital Courts project or by implementing the digitisation of these courts as an own project. We have also shown that we are serious about this by adding funds to our alternative state budget for 2017 and to our alternative RNB. I take this into account from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7511	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7516	I am pleased with the great commitment to the framework conditions of the courts, and I agree that the procedure in the courts should not be too long. In recent years, the government has put considerable emphasis on police and prosecution authorities, and this naturally leads to more cases in the courts. The government has therefore had an active and conscious approach to the issue of balance in the criminal justice chain. Several measures have been put in place that will lead to a significant increase in the effectiveness of the courts in the coming years. Digital courts are the most important of these. The project was launched this year, with a budget of 28 million. kr, and shall be scheduled to take place for more than six years and initially include the twelve largest courts of procedure, the courts of law and the Supreme Court. There are several good reasons why the project should be implemented in stages. The transition from paper-based to full-digital proceedings during and after the main proceedings will require much from the Court of Justice and the individual courts. Starting digital courts in the twelve largest district courts, lawyers’ courts and Supreme Courts only reduces the risk during the implementation phase. It reduces the likelihood of delays, budget exceedances and errors in the digital solutions. Such errors may, in the ultimate sense, lead to a longer period of proceedings, and may compromise the quality of the proceedings conducted by the courts. The implementation risk must also be seen in the context of several other major projects in progress in the courts and in the Court of Justice. Since 2014, the Court’s procedure has been further developed and all procedural systems have been given the same platform, Lovisa. The Land Change Courts are in the process of implementing a new procedural system in 2017 and a new one is under development for the Supreme Court. Furthermore, the electronic interaction between the courts, police and criminal services shall be improved through the project ESAS, formerly known as Stifliner II. The judicial administration is planning the project together with the Directorate of Police and the Directorate of Criminal Affairs. In addition, the Court of Justice, on the basis of a separate trial project in Tromsø, shall draw up a plan for the introduction of sound and video recording in the courts throughout the country. The scope of digital courts is also a question of admissibility and a priority between many important initiatives in the field of justice. Therefore, the government decided to start the project where the gains are greater. The twelve largest courts of jurisdiction, lawyers' courts and Supreme Courts account for about half of the total number of cases in the general courts, and they deal with the majority of the largest criminal cases. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that parts of the functionality of the Digital Courts will be made available to all courts in the first stage. In the long run, it's natural that all the courts become full-digital. The benefits of reducing the length of proceedings in the main courts will also increase the overall scope of action of the courts. According to the Court of Justice estimates, the gains will start to rise as early as 2018 and gradually to 2023. During 2017, the Ministry of Justice and Security will reduce a sample such as: shall determine the future structure of the courts. It is likely that the sample may propose amendments which may affect the conduct of digital courts in the remaining Courts of First Instance. I also believe this is a good reason to implement digital courts in several stages. So far, the Ministry has had a good dialogue with the Court of Justice on the implementation of the project. We will maintain this dialogue, so that we can put a plan for the roll-out of the project in all courts with a low implementation risk, and take into account any changes in the court structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7533	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7538	The Council of State reports on the proposal for a representative on 10 May that one of the reasons for first implementing the digitalisation project in Höjsterrecht, the Lawyers' Courts and the twelve main rights of property is to reduce the risk of errors in the digital solutions, which could lead to longer processing times and compromise the quality of the proceedings before the courts. If there is such uncertainty about the technical solutions and the digitization, I would like to explain exactly why the Supreme Court, the Lawyers' Courts and the twelve largest District Courts have been picked out as test rabbits before the project could possibly be carried out in the smaller district courts. Can the Council of State explain the reason for this? Would it not have been at least as reasonable to test out the technology in some small and medium-sized courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7545	If this is a discussion around the court structure, it's quite natural for me to point out that we've been signaling from the government that we're going to set up a court commission, which is going to look at just that. So it's that the introduction of digital solutions is always relatively demanding processes. There will always be a higher risk of an increase in the number of errors if one starts with the full scale, without doing it step by step, and in the worst case, the quality of the work actually done may be impaired. So that's why we're dividing it up. Then it's quite natural that you take on the rights of the District Courts, and of course the rights of the Lawyers and the Supreme Court, which will also exist after any change in the court structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7559	I hear what the council says, but I don't get it, because it's not really a very precise answer to my question. What I'm asking is just related to possible errors in the implementation of this technology. The Council of State pointed out that there are demanding processes and that, therefore, a step-by-step implementation has been fooled. That's all right – we could be a few of them about that. But the question is, is it the Supreme Court, etc., which is the right place to carry out tests, when one has the greatest risk of errors at the beginning, or would it be useful to choose other courts to just test out the technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7569	It is precisely in the fact that the Supreme Court will obviously exist after the Court of Justice has given its consideration. So in any case, when you're going to digitize the Supreme Court, it's natural that you do and start the step-by-step digitization there. It is important that we have time, that we do not make changes that are irreversible, and that we can also deal with them along the way. That's the demanding thing we're talking about. Digitisation is an important goal, but we have too many experiences showing that if you are hasty, it can mean loss of quality in the service that is being provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7576	Finally, what I hear the Council of State says is that he emphasizes that Supreme Court is one of the courts that will stand, and that is why it is worth testing there first. So we know that it's both the Supreme Court, the Lawyers' Courts and the twelve largest dishes that are now going to get this technology. What I want the Council of State to respond to now is whether or not he confirms here and now that the reason why these small and medium-sized courts, the other courts, do not have access to this technology is that one of the governments has not thought they would pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7583	I perceive that the representative Klinge confirms what I assumed was the point of her question. No, the government has not planned what the court structure will look like in the future. That's why we're asking for the setting up of a court commission that's just going to investigate this, look at how we're going to equip ourselves for the future to have a good court structure. But it's clear that if we were to anticipate the work and digitize things that might be moved on in the future, possibly abandoned, it would be a pretty useless resource use. Then it's also that when you implement these projects, you can't do it full-scale immediately, and then it's very natural that you start from the courts that are expected to exist within today's structure even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7590	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7597	There wasn't much new in the post to the Council of State, I really have to say. I wrote a question to the Council of State earlier this winter, and basically this article was almost a pure copy of the answer I'm sitting with on my desk. That being said, it is absolutely necessary, as the rapporteur said, that we should digitise the courts. Everyone has probably seen these legal premises with permes and the use of seatbelts to carry documents, and therefore digitalisation is also high in this sector. The point of digitization is that it gives new opportunities. It gives us a chance of better efficiency, but it also allows for decentralization, because the whole point of this is that you don't have to centralize. It's a paradox that the smallest district courts have not been involved in this digitization project, despite having a flat cut of 0.8 pst. through the so-called ABE reform, the red tape and efficiency reform. There was a cut in the 2017 budget of 16.5 million. kr. The statistics also show that there has been increased access to justice, and it shows that more than half of the warehouses and property rights are unable to meet the Stortinge’s objective of procedural time. The situation has become so precarious that the representatives of the Judiciary Association have called for warning. For the district courts, this is about a pressed everyday life where the main focus is to conduct court meetings and write decisions. The annual cuts the government has carried out have been a great burden to those who work there, and I hope they notice well what the Council of State has said in today's debate. They have also had no digitisation project to rely on. The situation has become so demanding that the Court of Justice will cut 127 posts by 2020. The cut goes directly beyond those who conduct judgmental activities. There is little bureaucracy in the courts, although the Council of State has taken this into account in the previous written response to me this winter. We're going to get more for the tax money, as it was written. But what we get back for the tax money is that the treatment period will go up and that the offer to the public will be worse by the government's so-called efficiency reform. So no more efficiency is achieved – on the contrary. And with regard to the debates that have been here before today, on punishment: we also have to take with us the burden that it is for the victims to have to wait for a case to be settled in court. It is therefore important that if the so-called efficiencies reform is to have any legitimacy, all district courts must participate in the digitisation of the courts. This is about structure and structural changes in their extreme sense, because when they fail to comply with the deadlines, it is very quick to put down the ‘poorest’ District Courts gradually, which were also the subject of the Council of State's response.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7612	I think it is commendable that the Senterpartiet is in charge of digitisation. I would like the Center Party to be equally eager to use digital tools and to facilitate it, as we do, for example. are in the process of implementing the police reform. It is absolutely right that there are huge gains in implementing digitisation. The Court’s calculations show that the benefits associated with digital courts will be high. The socio-economic profitability, measured in net present value, is estimated to be nearly 150 million. kr. In addition, several efficiency measures are under planning. I have already mentioned admission to the court, which could significantly improve the effectiveness of appeal proceedings in the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law I have also mentioned the committee that will investigate the future court structure. The court structure is too fragmented, and it is currently difficult for the Court of Justice to allocate resources effectively in the courts. The winding-up of the jury system will also contribute in the long term to a lower duration of proceedings in the law of law enforcement. The government is also working on further changes to the Criminal Procedures Act, and a pilot project is under way for the rapid handling of criminal cases in Oslo. The problem is not that important measures are not being taken, that important projects are not being implemented, and that we are not doing the modernisation work that is imperative and that all parts of the public sector must undergo. But I think you should be careful to go too fast. The public sector has gained some experience when it has done just that. Therefore, it is wise to take the time available, use it well, implement it step by step – just as the government has set up, and I believe that there is a broad connection in this room. It will in the long term strengthen the courts in their work. It will reduce the length of the procedure. It will mean even better quality, and it will, of course, also facilitate more efficient use of taxpayers' money. I haven't concluded in any way what the court structure will look like in the future. That is why this should be investigated; that is why this work must be thoroughly and thoroughly investigated before any changes are made to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7623	In fact, it seemed to me almost as if the Council of State had concluded, when we think about the line change that he had with the representative Klinge instead. What the council says, is that this is wise, and that it is wise to take the time to help. She can do that. It's very good to spend a lot of time doing a digitization project. What is unwise here is that the government, on the one hand, expects to streamline the efficiency and red tape of the smallest rights, and, on the other hand, they cannot participate in the digitisation project. That's what's wrong with the government's decision. Had the government said that yes, you who participate in the major digitisation project must expect a cut, while those who do not participate in it, you do not have to expect it cut – then there would have been some sense in it. As this now appears, it's simply out of time. And we know that as the years go by, and when the smallest district courts fail to deliver on the goals set by the Storting, it will be easy to tell them in the next round – first for the court administration and then for the government – that then we have to merge the property rights, because you do not achieve the goals set by the Storing. There is a centralization logic in this area, which has been going on with everything else in this government for the last four years. Small and efficient dish dishes closer to where people live are simply not a goal. When the Council of State says that we have a much too fragmented structure, I'm actually wondering what the Council of State really means by that. Is this really a hindrance? I am glad to see that this is a hindrance to good practice in the district of Norway. I don't think it is, because what's being run out there is actually a procedure, and they have almost no bureaucrats helping them with what they're doing. So I don't think this is wise. I think it is quite unwise, and I hope that those who are out working in this department have noticed what has been said today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7636	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7652	The proposal by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights addresses a very important issue, and I am absolutely very pleased that the government, through the Directorate of Criminal Affairs, has set in motion a process to better protect the name and identity of the prison officers. The proposal proposes the introduction of a service number and it should be possible to combine it with relevant changes in work logs to ensure employee anonymity. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare sees the problem in a broader context in the work they do, and also wants to look at instruments for, among others. to hide registration numbers on employees’ cars. This is an ambition to which the majority of the committee subscribes. At the same time, it is important to stress that difficulties in getting everything in place should not be used as an argument for not introducing individual measures. The introduction of a service number rather than the use of a name is something the majority of the Committee is very clear on which to implement it. As the Justice Committee sees it, it is urgent to introduce service numbers and changes to the system of work logs. At the same time, as I said, it is not that all measures need to be implemented at the same time. Different processes may require different levels of preparation and therefore the timeline for the fastest possible implementation could be different. The Committee is very clear on this matter and has joined the draft representative. It also has a very clear order – unanimously from the Committee – that this should be carried out as quickly as possible, and asks for the government to come back with its conclusions as quickly as possible, and no later than the autumn of 2017. I myself have visited many staff — and other prisoners — in Norwegian prisons. The employees' organisations have been very concerned about it, so I think it is good that a proposal has been made to make progress in the work. I am also pleased that the Directorate of Criminal Welfare and the government have been very clear that this is something you take seriously. This may seem a small matter, but it is important to meet what employees have said can help improve their safety. So I'm very happy and proud that we have an overall committee that comes with this order, and I feel that the government is ready to implement this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7665	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good cooperation. It's very good that we have an agreed desire to get this in place. It is true, as the rapporteur said, that employee organisations have worked hard and for a long time in order to obtain a hearing in order to introduce a service number for staff members in criminal matters. I want to commend the trust-elected and the organisations that have been involved in this matter. The Workers' Party has agreed with employees' organisations, and the lack of political commitment to get this in place by the Right-wing Party government made it necessary for us to promote our own proposal in order to have it put in place. There may be several reasons why there is a large increase in violence and threats in Norwegian criminal justice. Some conditions that are likely to play out are the result of several years of modern criminal execution in line with St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08, namely that several zones with footlinks and in open prisons, in line with the objective of providing a more custom-made housing level. Those who serve in closed prisons are more often convicted of serious, organised crime and more often have serious mental illnesses and drug addiction. The fact that the Right-Fremskrit party government has cut the allocation through the ABE reform has, says employees, led to less active follow-up work outside the departments. So in my opinion, there are many issues that need to be improved in the next enlargement period, but now we are dealing with a measure that can improve the situation of employees as it is today – something that the employees themselves have pointed to as a necessary solution. For the Labour Party, it is important that policies in Norway facilitate and stimulate growth in the number of jobs, so that people are given security for a job to go to. It is equally important for the Workers' Party that when you have a job, the employees should be safe in the job they have. Criminal staff have for a long time pointed to insecurity challenges. We know that the level of threats and violence has increased dramatically in criminal matters under this government. This development should trigger a great deal of political commitment. Nevertheless, today's government has not engaged itself worth mentioning before March/April 2017, and I have to say that the new Minister of Justice seems more responsive than his predecessor. That's good. It is also good that the Directorate of Criminal Welfare took seriously the concerns of the employees and started work on establishing a service number scheme with the employees’ organisations. That being said, it is gratifying that the majority of the Grand Duchy has moved in the direction of the Labour Party’s view, namely that the top political body in Norway — the Stortinget — should be involved in criminal matters. It is also gratifying that the Ministry, in its letter to the Committee, expresses its intention to follow up the matter when the work of the sample is completed. The Committee agrees to ask the Stortinge to bring the matter back in the autumn of 2017. Then a new accumulation can assess the results of the work and then decide on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7686	What the proposers point out is an important principle of legal certainty – that the disclosure law and the data protection law also apply to prisoners in prison. Prisoners in Norwegian prisons have the right of access to documents dealing with them themselves, including assessments made for criminal offences committed for offences against legislation, refusals to manufacture and leave, etc. The representative proposal indicates that there has been a development of violence and threats in Norwegian prisons from 2011 to 2016 and that the introduction of employee service numbers will provide them with better protection. It is true that there has been a strong increase in registered violence and threats in the criminal justice system from 2014 to 2016. I share the concern for an increased number of violent and threatening episodes. At the same time, it is positive that it is working to raise registration awareness, so that several events are also recorded. The Ministry closely monitors developments in violence and threats, including: in the governance dialogue with the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. It is important to put in place proper measures to reduce violence and threats to employees. It is also important that employees remain an active co-player, together with the prisoners, creating a natural and positive environment and good interaction together. Spending several years in prison and using only one number in the dialogue with employees could be alienating and contributing to the opposite of what you want to achieve. Prison inmates are to be rehabilitated, and the prerequisite for this is also good relations between the officers and the prisoners. Open dialogue provides a basis for better climate. This can contribute to less violence and threats than if the prisoners did not become acquainted with the employees. This will also ensure greater security in the job. Also, a service number alone will not eliminate all opportunities for violence and threats as long as it includes: is the right of access to work logs where events are recorded with the employee’s name, and there is a view from prison to the parking places where employees’ cars are registered with their name and address. Therefore, as the Committee points out, other measures need to be considered. After dialogue with employees’ organisations, the Directorate of Criminal Welfare will examine the possibilities for better protection of employees in various service activities. A working group has been set up to address the issue. The working group will assess whether service numbers or similar traceable anonymous identity should be used in some types of situations and events. The working group aims to present a proposal during this autumn. I am concerned about the safety of employees and understand their concerns. I would therefore like to follow up this issue and consider further actions when the Directorate of Criminal Welfare has submitted its assessment after the working group's investigation, and I will return to the matter in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7703	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7719	This issue concerns the establishment of a European Agency for the operational management of large-scale IT systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, and the conclusion of the ancillary agreement. The establishment of the Agency is an improvement in the operation of the systems, and the development of new large IT systems is also for the benefit of Norway. Through the additional agreement negotiated, Norway is given a limited vote on the Management Board of the Agency and Norway’s financial contribution will follow the general formula for the calculation of Norway’s financial contribution to Schengen cooperation and Eurodac. The regulation does not require any legislative or regulatory changes, but participation in the Agency requires decision-making and the consent of the Storting to the acceptance of the act, and the supplementary agreement is necessary in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. A unanimous committee, except for the Central Party, is behind the vote, and I assume that the Central Party will explain its views on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7730	I'll be refreshing cards. The previous association agreements Norway has with the EU do not cover the activities of new EU bodies that are being developed within the framework of Schengen and Eurodac-related actions. Therefore, an additional EU-Noreg agreement was negotiated in April 2016 to regulate the participation of the Agency. This includes other participation in the Management Board and advisory committees, the financial contribution and staff management from Norway. The reason why the Central Party does not vote for this proposition is that there has been no clarification from the Court of Justice of the European Union on the rules on voting rights at all in line with EU law. I do not think it is right that we should at this point give authority to renegotiate the agreement, precisely because we do not know whether he is in breach of EU law. The proposition states that it is only if a renegotiated agreement requires a promise decision that the matter will be referred back to Stortinget. In reality, we do not know what we are voting for today, and the Central Party therefore believes that the government must wait and re-examine the matter after the European Court of Justice has settled the matter. It is worth noting that the European Commission will not sign the agreement until the European Court of Justice has delivered its opinion. I include this in the report from the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7743	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7748	Europe has again felt, through new reprehensible and cowardly terrorist attacks in the United Kingdom, that some environments do not stand back in terms of killing, harm and grief. No nation alone is able to combat radical Islam and the seemingly increasing will to commit acts of terrorism. Preventing acts of terrorism requires, on the contrary, close international cooperation at several levels and across several sectors. In the EU, this is among the highest priority areas, and it was at the latest in the last week’s Justice and Home Affairs Council. I would like to point out that through our participation and good cooperation with the European Union in the field of justice and home affairs, the government is helping to provide Norwegian policies with a safer everyday life for citizens. Both in order to prevent and to combat it, we need to ensure that the agencies that need it have access to the necessary information in a timely manner across borders. Relevant information is now widely disseminated through electronic systems. In order to professionalise both the development of new large IT systems and the operational management of existing systems, the EU set up in 2011 a dedicated agency for these purposes, the so-called eu-LISA. The current central IT systems in the field of justice and home affairs are therefore now managed by eu-LISA. It concerns the Schengen Information System, the SIS, the Visa Information System, the VIS, and Eurodac, the fingerprint comparison database for asylum applications. The EU's objective in this field is to create a comprehensive and strategic view of IT development in the field of justice and home affairs. New IT systems are under discussion and under development. These will be subsequently added to the Agency. Through its operational management and development of new IT systems, the Agency supports EU policies on asylum, migration and border control. We are talking here about key elements of the work on internal security and security in the EU/Schengen area. In order for Norway to participate in the Management Board of the Agency and thus participate in strategic developments, it had to negotiate a separate supplementary agreement with the EU. While the establishment of eu-LISA is a proper further development of the Schengen and Eurodac acquis, new EU bodies set up within them are not covered by our association agreement. The agreement on Norwegian participation in eu-LISA was finalised in April 2016. A number of the conditions regulated by the agreement are referred to in previous agreements on Norwegian participation in other EU agencies. The main issue this time was the extent to which Norway and the other Schengen-related countries could vote on the Agency’s Management Board and Advisory Group. The EU has said that they wish to submit the agreement to the Court of Justice of the European Union once all Schengen-related countries have notified the regulation. The European Court of Justice will then be asked to assess whether the provision on voting rights is compatible with EU law. If the Court finds that the rules are contrary to EU law, the agreement will have to be renegotiated. Otherwise, the contract may be signed and enter into force. Should a renegotiated agreement require a decision to grant that deviates significantly from the draft presented in the proposal, the matter will of course be referred back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7765	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7781	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7790	I want to start by giving tribute to the proposers to discuss a theme where I am aware that a total mass shares the intentions behind the proposals 100 pst. There are four proposals. I want to divide them into two categories, where the first category is proposals for providing information and working awareness-raising and knowledge-based to see what measures we can take in the law today and with the tools we have to reduce children's exposure to pornography. It's an intention I think all parts. The Internet in particular has made this phenomenon more accessible. Children are more exposed than before. No one wants that. The second category of measures in the proposal addresses different instruments related to blocking or filtering the access that children have to pornography. With regard to this last category, the Right Party and the Advance Party will not support these proposals. We are, as I said, fully aware that the intention behind the proposals is the very best, but in terms of different types of blocking, this type of information, images and events are not illegal. We're worried if we're going to cross the border of authority-incited filtering of something that's not illegal, but that's unwanted. We're concerned that we can cross a limit that is both fundamentally difficult to deal with in later cases, and where at worst we open up to other types of censorship of other undesirable phenomena, which we also want with the best intentions to limit the exposure of. That is why we are voting against the II and III settings to contact Internet service providers and to look at the possibilities of blocking Internet access. Of course, with regard to the proposal of those representatives behind the proposal to block access to these pages by primary schools, we understand why that proposal is on the table. But here it's also important to be aware that it's the municipalities that are school owners. In my knowledge and knowledge of Norwegian municipalities in the role of school owners, they are at least as busy limiting this access as we are. But there's a difference between us as cavers going in and imposing, and they themselves doing what's on their table, which is their responsibility in securing their computer systems against access to pornography. At the same time, those who are school owners are also the closest to working both mind-creating and value-based to stress in their information that this is not wanted — therefore, we have put some restrictions. But that we as a national parliament are going to pass that line, we think we're in another category, and we don't want to pass that line.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7803	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a thorough job. I am grateful that a joint committee supports our main proposal on a separate selection. The Internet is a good thing to protect. It contributes to increased democracy and the ability of individuals to express themselves and participate in the societal debate. But there is also a lot that is not good online, and that is especially not suitable for children. Unfortunately, the risk of exposure of children to pornography, child abuse, rape, and other sexualized criminal acts is great. It is therefore time to take action to protect our children from pornography and to increase sexualisation. Of course, it is the parents who have the primary responsibility. They have, and will always have, the main responsibility for the children and their use of pornography. But we politicians also have a responsibility. Alcohol is e.g. a legal drug for adults, but it is prohibited for children, and in addition there are many restrictions for adults. No one would propose removing these regulations even if children are primarily the responsibility of their parents. Protecting children from pornography is a common responsibility that parents and politicians must share. I am therefore pleased that an overall judicial committee has endorsed our proposal to set up a multidisciplinary selection, which will find new measures that can more effectively protect our children from pornography and increase sexualisation. However, I am amazed that it now appears, although there is a majority in the vote, that we will not have a majority in this Chamber for our other proposals that will be able to protect our children on the Internet, and especially the youngest children. More kids are starting to see porn before they've had their first day at school. More stringent regulation is, of course, no guarantee that children will not have access to pornography, but the point is to raise the threshold, as we are today, for example. make just with children and alcohol, or that one puts porn leaves on a shelf higher up, preferably with dark glass in front, just to protect children. Our proposal is based on measures introduced by David Cameron in the United Kingdom. He invited the Internet service providers to offer their customers a pre-set filter such as: can block children’s access to pornography. This has now been introduced by the four largest Internet service providers, and customers are asked when they install the routes if they want to switch on the filter or not. In Norway, filters are available, but often they are not easily available and are often installed on individual web browsers and not on routes. Our proposal will be that we want to engage in dialogue with Internet service providers, so that they offer their customers such a filter. It will be an opportunity for the individual and no coercion. That's why we don't reverse freedom of expression, as someone claims. We have also proposed that schools introduce porn filters. Children who have such filters at home must not be exposed to pornography at school. It's tempting to say that when the logic is that it's only the parents' responsibility, what about the schools? There are many workplaces that have different barriers, whether it's for Facebook or for pornography, and I think it's quite natural that you also take the discussion in school. I follow the logic of the Right and the Progressive Party's argument that the intention of the proposal should be respected by the individual school owner. However, they point out that it is also important that the school owner has an active attitude to this according to local circumstances. I have to say I wonder what local conditions are going on here. All children should be protected from pornography and online sexual abuse, irrespective of where they live in the country. Important steps have now been taken to introduce age control on films and online series. That's good. But I think it must have consequences for industries that ignore this. The Christian People’s Party has therefore proposed that the government consider blocking pornographic websites that do not introduce the age limit for visitors, as they are now doing in the United Kingdom. This age control will, of course, get older children around, but the point is to raise the threshold and make children not involuntaryly exposed to porn. Unfortunately, this proposal has not received a majority. When the industry itself does not take responsibility, we politicians must demand that they take responsibility. Children must be more protected against pornography. Sexual education needs to be improved. It is important, but we have already proposed this and have had an impact on it. There is no contradiction between regulation and education. I say yes to both. I address the proposal on which the Christian People's Party stands alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7828	The representative, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7833	I would like to thank the representative of the Christian People's Party for the initiative and the proposal and for raising an important debate on how children and young people are exposed to sexualisation and the impressions associated with sexualisation at a relatively young age and on a very large number of surfaces. To see it in a larger context, I think we're important. Of course – as several of the other representatives have done – it is about prevention, it is about retention creation. Of course, it's about parents having to play their part, and it's also part of the custody that allows the kids to be exposed to and not. It is quite clear that the sexualisation of children and young people is not something that can primarily be regulated away from it, but it is at the same time possible to take some political initiatives. For this reason, I am pleased that the Labour Party, together with the Christian People's Party and SV, wants to vote in favour of II and III, which is about engaging in dialogue with Internet service providers to ensure Internet users have easy access to network filters that can block access to pornography for young people, and that the base ball will be able to block access to pornography for students in school. I would like to stress that it is important that this type of initiative does not interfere with freedom of expression, which is an important principle, and that we do not want it to be a development towards a state filtering of information or an image that people do not want to see. Therefore, the initiatives outlined here are not meant to be state-based filtering, but rather a dialogue with Internet service providers, and not least a simpler possibility for users – whether private people or schools – to opt out of exposure to this type of sexualisation that children and young people are exposed to. That is why the Labour Party supports I, II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7844	I would like to make an explanation of vote on behalf of the Left. Like Mr Werp, I would like to stress that it is by no means desirable for young people to be exposed to neither pornography nor increased sexualisation. This is the way an important issue is addressed by the Christian People's Party, and it is also important that as a society we are aware of it and work towards children and young people – involuntarily in many cases – being exposed to it. The left is going to vote for I because we also want a multidisciplinary selection to be put down. Then we have expectations that such a sample can look at this issue with a very broad mandate and on a broader set of fields than only what is mentioned in the other Roman numerals, and that the sample may also come up with proposals for decisions. Then, of course, after that sample has done its job and made its recommendations, we have to consider them. The left is not going to go in for II and III today. Just to link some comments to it since questions are now being asked about whether these are issues of freedom of expression or not: With regard to II, which is about encouraging Internet service providers to have a filter available, I see, first of all, that it is quite accessible with such a filter for those who want it. I also do not believe that this is necessarily a question of freedom of expression, because no one is going to impose such a filter on anyone, but our scepticism is linked to the fact that Storting should impose such a dialogue on a supplier about something that is initially entirely legitimate. I fully agree that all Internet service providers should have such a filter easily available, but I think it is a threshold to oblige the government to meet with Internet service providers on such a matter. So we're not going to go for II. In the case of III, it is also not difficult to agree that children and young people should not be exposed to pornography at school, but I regard it as a responsibility for the school owners. I think it's relatively easy for them to handle this internally at their school or in their municipality, and local democracy must also apply in cases where we think they should address a problem. So I don't see it as natural that the Storting should oblige the municipalities to block this for their schools. It is a debate I believe the municipalities must take care of themselves and that the politicians in that case will decide that they want such filters or blockades on their computers in the schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7859	I think it is important in the debate to distinguish what is abuse and crime and grotesque abuse against children or others. It is obvious that we are going to protect children from it, but we are doing so primarily through the police and through also having a system that can follow up victims of abuse. I think this is an important discussion, because it has to be put into a larger context, where we might see an increasing sexualisation of our culture. Then it's also important to remember that sex and life are good, that's fine, that's something most of us appreciate. Sexualization is something else. Sexualization is when you reduce people and individuals to just the body, and when you make a living technically. What characterizes a sexualized culture is just such a technical, instrumental view of the body. It's not certain that the attitudes out there are worse than they have been before, but the impressions and the bombardment are so much bigger because we're available, all of them, 24 hours a day. Then it's enough to say the obvious, banal point, but it's nevertheless worth saying that the main barrier to this is not legal regulations or filters, but the internal barrier that the individual has. There's norms, there's values, there's support from family and friends, there's maybe even a post-it-note on a mirror somewhere that tells us that values have nothing to do with what kind of body you have. The work on protecting children and young people from pornography and sexualised culture and poor physique must therefore be done primarily through awareness-raising work and through good sexual education. Attitude-making isn't just about what you get at school, it's about what we do as a society, and not least what adults do. I want to say a little about what the government intends to do. One thing is that, on the school and education side, we have now ensured that, both in kindergarten and teacher education, it is clear and clear that all kindergarten teachers and teachers should learn about violence and sexual abuse and how they can detect it and prevent it. But it is also the case that we are going to renew all the curricula in school, and in connection with this, the Stortinget and the government have wanted to raise three cross-disciplinary themes, one of which is public health and lifelong learning. Now, of course, we need to be careful about putting all the good intentions into such a cross-disciplinary theme, but one of the points is just to help students get knowledge, skills and attitudes that help promote health, both physical health and mental health, and help them to cope with different challenges in life. Among them is learning to set limits and learn to respect the boundaries of others. It's the Education Directorate that handles that process. So, as many people have said, today it's up to the individual school or municipality if they want to block students from accessing pornography at school on the school's wireless network. I just want to add that also here applies another important rule. It's hard to monitor the mobile usage of students every second, but if it happens in an hour, the main barrier to this teacher is to use the digital tools in a good way, and it's to make sure that if the mobile phone is up – and it shouldn't be – or the PC is up, it's because it's to be used for work, not just standing up for some special reason. So it assumes that the municipalities are following this and that they are the conscious problem. Otherwise, I believe – perhaps not surprisingly – that the government parties have sound assessments of what they support and do not support in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7876	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7881	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good article. I'm going to admit that I had him a little bit in the back of my head when I wrote the suggestions, and that's why it wasn't as a separate subject at school, or that the school was going to fix everything. But as I underlined in my article, we are also pleased with the work that is going on, to which the Council of State referred, in terms of lifelong learning and public health, and in terms of dealing with frontier setting, etc. The Justice Committee was also very concerned about the escalation plan to combat violence and abuse. But I would like to challenge the Council of State, for he is a person who is being listened to in public space: David Cameron, to whom I referred in my post, and who is of course also an inspiration to me to promote part of these proposals, said that not only as a politician, but as a father it was important to him that society took a settlement, and therefore he has promoted a number of proposals. He himself engaged in dialogue with the Internet service providers, etc. Then it is said here from the representative Nybø that she will not support a proposal where we force the government or the Council of State to take that dialogue. But does the Council of State Røe Isaksen want to take on that role either to take such meetings or to combat the exposure of violence and porn in that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7888	Of course, this is something that also engages as a parent or as an uncle or as an aunt or whatever it should be. But I'm concerned that it's not that there are simple regulatory solutions to all the major societal problems we're facing. The policy can contribute, but it is not certain that a filter or a dialogue is what is going to happen. So I have nothing against the fact that the public is cooperating with private people. It can often be sensible, and it can often be reasonable for public opinion to ask questions, that public, at least politicians, contribute to getting attention around an area. But then it's also worth mentioning that if this feels like a precarious topic, it's something that we as citizens and as customers of these companies have to deal with. But I think -- once again -- that the most important thing school can do is have teachers who are well trained, professional, can handle this, and that the school also contributes to the Christian People's Party has been very concerned about, that is, a valuelift in connection with renewing the school's value document.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7898	Thanks for the answer. I fully agree with that, as I also said in my post. The school has a very important role, and the parents, not least, and as the Council of State was in it, it is the compass inside of the individual student or child that is the most important, so that they are trained to make good choices. But – and that was also the subject of the state council’s intervention – it’s about attitudes in society. I happily admit that when I travel these kinds of suggestions and debates, that's not what I do, but I think it also affects. The way the state council talks about post-it patches that say you have a value for who you are, not for what you are -- it's extremely important that it comes out. That's why I also believe that an active state council in this field will mean something. And that's why I also think filtering won't necessarily solve everything, but I think it can have an effect, at least for the youngest children. So I totally agree that you shouldn't have any authority control, but actively having dialogue and challenging Canal Digital, Altibox or whatever it is, to take even greater steps, I think it's important, and I think the authorities are going to have that role and not just leave it to parents, school or others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7915	Now I'm not someone – I can't say an expert on pornography, but what I should say is that I'm not an expert on online filter technology, and it's also partly because I have kids who are so young that there's no problem. But today online filters are available for those who want to use them. I'm not going to say that you can't take the initiative or talk about it if there are are arenas where it's natural to talk to the Internet service provider about how they relate to this. There are no problems with that, because I think this is an important issue. What makes it more difficult, however, is that this also affects a wider discussion of how much commitment we, as authorities, should put on freedom of expression. Now everyone understands that there's not full freedom in a school, it's not like you have freedom of speech in a classroom to scream out whatever you want, or surf what you want. This applies in particular in the spare minutes – there are some driving rules. But I think that discussion is being taken a little too lightly in the specific proposals here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7922	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7940	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7949	What are we going to do with the humanities? This question is the title of a report on the humanities situation in Norway published by Fritt Ord in 2014. The report is written by a working group chaired by Tore Rem and Helge Jordheim. There is no official investigation, but it asks questions like: What are we going to do with literature, and art, and history and language? The book discusses the situation of the humanities of the Norwegian community and includes proposals for possible course changes and measures to strengthen Norwegian humanities in response to current and future challenges. Because as a society, there's no doubt that we actually need humanistic knowledge. The message we are discussing today, Humaniora in Norway, is an answer to how the government perceives that the societal potential of the humanities can be fully triggered in response to today's major questions, in the food and cultural life, in school, and for example. also in a central community institution such as the Defence. This is the first political document to provide a comprehensive review of the humanities field in Norway. But the message goes into a wide range of ambitious government issues about higher education and research. To the right, it is a prerequisite for meeting the complex challenges of society that we build new knowledge and ability to connect existing knowledge from different disciplines. As rapporteur, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its good cooperation during the debate. The Committee notes that the Communication describes the reality and challenges of the field in a good way, and that the humanists have too little knowledge and skills to use in tackling the major societal challenges. The purpose of the communication is precisely to facilitate a better release of the potential of humanities in society and in the workplace and in schools. In the Communication, the government is bringing forward the climate, demographic and technological changes we are facing, such as areas where the needs for more and better humane knowledge and competences are significant, and problems affecting how the professions can contribute to meeting these challenges. An important step in the Communication is to facilitate the strengthening of humanities in the major research programmes, while taking seriously the relevance of the humanities disciplines when assessed at their own premises. Other objectives of the Communication are enhanced academic quality in humanistic research, better opportunities for humanities candidates in the labour market and a better link between academic humanities and the school. The priorities and measures put forward by the government for humanistic research and education in this Communication are in line with the long-term priorities of the Long-term Programme for Research and Higher Education and the objectives of the Quality Communication for Higher Education, which we discussed last week. The long-term plan contains both general priorities for quality and more thematic priorities for meeting the major challenges of our time. This is also the approach of the humanities communication, where the government first discusses the general framework for improving quality and then the need for humanities in thematic areas. A society is always moving, and therefore political changes and adjustments are also necessary. However, there is also a need for changes both at the humanistic research and education institutions and in the social and labour life that are to use humanistic knowledge disseminated through research results and candidates. In Norway, since World War II, we have had clear political expectations and demands for subjects such as science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Large public investment has been made in laboratories and equipment. Social sciences have also been the subject of great political interest. But we have not had similar political expectations or demands for humanities. Now we get that. The Communication sets out measures to ensure that the policy framework we have is more appropriate to the specific nature of humanities. It makes it visible that not only in universities and colleges important humanistic research is carried out, but also in archives, libraries, museums and research institutes. Finally, I will give a good example of what we might see more of in the future. This morning I visited the Olympic peak, where I met the top sports manager in the Norwegian Sports Federation, Tore Oberebø. He's a trained philosopher, he's a former top sportsman himself, and he's using his skills to the full in the top management job, where he's going to help build up Norwegian athletes at the top international level to pick up the most awarded medals in international championships. It is a recognition that the humanists have knowledge and skills and tools that are too little used to deal with major societal challenges – not for humanists to change their peculiarity, but because they are in perspective we are totally dependent on. If we look around today's world at climate change, migration and rapid technology shifts, we are quick to deal with issues like identity, values, religion, culture and ethics, i.e. humanistic perspectives. Many of these issues come out of the way people behave. To understand their motives, we also need to know something about the world's ideas. In short, the humanities are vital if we are to navigate well through some of the changes we are facing as a society. This Communication responds well to the challenges, and in the roll-out of the long-term plan, coming to the harvest, these perspectives will be seen in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e7983	Thank you to the rapporteur for the good work done by the Committee. There's a great deal of consensus, but there's some points I want to mention, where we separate some layers. The Labour Party believes that we should strengthen the humanities of all. The justification is as follows: Research-based education means that students should be introduced into scientific research method, basic science theory, research ethics and academic discussion. This is one of the most important humanities that can contribute to other education. The ability to think critically, understand science theory, respect for and insight into other subjects and the ability to work interdisciplinaryly is more important if possible than ever. There should therefore be separate subjects and institutions should not think that this should be done within the individual disciplines. The goal of student-active research also reinforces the need for all students, no matter what they study, to develop early the ability of critical reflection and source criticism. In addition, I would like to mention something else, namely digitisation. It's going to change the work we're all meeting. Basic ICT competence is needed in all disciplines, including humanities. Therefore, we should have basic ICT skills developed and adapted to individual education and training, including the humanities. We believe that universities and colleges should take responsibility for designing education courses that do this in a good way. A little bit of the background for this message is the question: What are you really going to do with the humanities? Asking this question means that it is extremely important to develop relevant links with the labour market through education. It may seem that it is not good enough today. Relevant work experience and practices are important for getting a job after completing education. Employers also call for more expertise in project management, interdisciplinary and collaborative areas, according to the NTNU employer survey. The question is, do you get enough of this if you choose a humanities course? The system of placement, practice and internships in the course of study should be used more widely in these subjects as well, and I wish it had been mentioned to an even greater extent in the notification. Students should also, to a greater extent, write tasks relevant to working life, based on real-life issues and societal challenges in cooperation with social and work life. Different practices, work-related activities and work-related tasks could contribute to better quality of education and increase motivation, as education is perceived as being more relevant. In this way, transition to working life will also be easier for students, while more will discover the relevance of the subjects and become aware of their own skills. This is probably where the Workers' Party believes the message is too weak. Interdisciplinaryity, critical thinking, links between different disciplines – everyone here in this room knows we've been to it before when it comes to the Ludvigsen Committee. We want to grow it in primary school. We want to get it into high school and high school, and it's obvious that students also have to master it. The institutions should then facilitate multidisciplinary choices to a greater extent than they do now, and we, as politicians, should support them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8000	We in the Progress Party are very pleased with the humanities message, and the Progress Party has been a driver for getting a separate message in this area. The priorities and measures presented by the government for humanistic research and education in this Communication are in line with the long-term priorities set out in the Report. St. 7 for 2014-2015, Long-term plan for research and higher education 2015-2024 and the objectives of Meld. St. 16 for 2016–2017, Culture for quality in higher education. The purpose of the notification is to stimulate further quality development of humanities in Norway. It is necessary to make more clear the expectations of humanities, both in terms of the social relevance of research, its inter-professional relevance and the relevance of education to working life. The humanities have to go further in our consciousness. In large research and innovation programmes, it is important that the panels are broadly integrated, with sufficient competence to assess humanities as well as multidisciplinary contributions, where the humanities are an important part. Humanities are researching and teaching on topical issues, and overall our understanding of problems and problem solving will improve if the humanists contribute more to knowledge development and education to meeting the major societal challenges. All school activities also have a humanistic basis in view of the fact that the purpose paragraph of the Training Act states that the school should ‘open doors to the world and the future and give historical and cultural insight and anchoring to the students and learners’, and ‘training shall contribute to the deepening of knowledge and understanding of the national cultural heritage and our common international cultural tradition’. I will not outline all the measures and initiatives contained in the communication. Instead, I want to reflect a little bit on the importance of the humanistic subjects. At best, humanities enable us to understand our past and our present, they contribute to promoting critical thinking about power and government and to deeper understanding of language, culture and values. It is in the nature of humanities that rapid market research results are difficult to achieve. The strength of humanities lies in the long-term perspective. In economics, law and real science, more can be produced than in the humanistic academia, where the value of money is easy to see. It's not like that within the humanities. So we can't just look at short-term and superficial benefits. From ancient Greece, through the ages of information and to our time, the principles of how academic work is to be carried out have evolved. Central to today's humanistic, democratic tradition is the emphasis of free research. Akademia should not be a critical tool for the government. Just in the context of free and critical thinking, humanities have an important role to play. Humanities teach us to think, to understand texts and images and not least to be critical. But here, as an educational politician, I want to make a call to the spokespersons of the humanities at the same time. Because they have a big challenge. The humanists have to be better at selling themselves, to tell you why the humanities are useful. Think about the importance of language skills in today's globalised societies, or how important it is to understand culture, or how important it is to have knowledge of the past, of ideology and philosophy, of national cultures and values. In today's situation, there are many dark clouds in the horizon. Here, humanities have an important role to play, and that role must be better formulated by the humanists themselves, so that we, too, politicians in the Grand Duchy and in the government, are more able to see the importance of humanities, so that we can make good use of the resources available to the disciplines. The party of progress sees the value of the humanities and is pleased with this announcement. In the future, we would like to have a more active dialogue with the actors in the humanities. This presupposes the will for dialogue and innovation of both parties – both from the humanists and from us politicians. In this way, we can work together to strengthen the whole of Education and Research Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8021	The government parties and cooperation parties have done a lot to raise higher education and research during this major period, and I want to commend the government for now also providing a big message about humanities in Norway. I would also like to thank the rapporteur both for a good job in the Committee and not least for a good review of the content of the communication. This is not the big message that has revealed the very big contradictions between the different political parties. On the contrary, it is an overall committee that ends up with most of the measures in the notification, and it is great. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this either, but I want to mention a few things. One applies to language. It is great that the government will integrate further education into Spanish, German and French into the Quality Competence strategy, and it is a good proposal to extend the Bachelor's degree to four years for languages that are particularly time consuming to learn. Then I expect the Council of State has noticed the majority comment in the vote that it must also follow sufficient funding. It is important that students in the humanities are given the opportunity to make a good link with their working life through their education, and not least there is a need for more places of practice in school. Therefore, I would like to refer to the proposal for a decision by the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV to ask the government to take action so that states and municipalities establish more practical places in the school for students in the humanities. This is something I had hoped that the government parties would also support. Finally, I would just like to make a very brief comment in the settings of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left that some kind of ex.phil should be introduced. and ex.fac. to all courses covered by the Law on Higher Education. I do not think that is necessary. Perhaps we should focus on the education perspective more strongly in basic education and make sure that primary school does not get too narrow. It was Christian People's Party also concerned when we put the leaders for the renewal of the curriculum, but demanding that everyone, no matter what education they should take, also have to study some philosophy and idea history, I think is a bad idea. I've never heard the Senterpartie suggest it before, for example. when we've discussed how we can better facilitate school and education for the practically motivated students, but now the party wants it. I believe that is an academia of the practical vocational training courses, and I think that is the wrong way to go. But this is a good and important big message, and I am very pleased that a joint committee so clearly says that the humanities are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8036	It's very good to have a message about the humanities. It is a good attempt to highlight the value of these subjects, which have been politically in the valley of the shadows and have received much less attention than technology and real science in recent years – despite the fact that these subjects are also important in providing responses and solutions to the major societal challenges we face. Climate and environmental challenges, population growth, cultural awareness, migration, war and conflict are areas where we cannot count on a solution; we need a greater understanding to find challenges and define solutions. That is why it is good to send a big message. Then it will be up to the further follow-up if the sector succeeds in this. The potential to contribute more heavily to the major research programmes is an important signal. It is important that the Research Council ensures the development of programmes targeting humanities, both in the university and higher education sectors and in the institute sector. The intention that candidates from the humanities should be better linked to the labour market and specifically to the education sector is also important and that the ministry should follow up with each institution and with each subject. As I said when we dealt with the report on quality in higher education, the funding mechanism for the UH sector can be challenging. Studies in this sector are characterised by the fact that whole degrees are being completed to a lesser extent, and that study scores are being taken in individual disciplines. This means that the ability to ‘survive’ in the UH institutions of these disciplines becomes more demanding with the new system. This is why the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have asked the Department to follow developments closely. It's very important that we don't get such an unintended effect. We live in a digital age. Many of us have probably sat and joined the TV series ‘Who do you think you are?’. Here, the NRK, the archive sector, libraries and museums put down a great deal of work to find the family history and social history of known people. I think the series is a very good example of the importance of subjects that preserve our cultural history and our collective memory through archives, histories and stories. It is very important that this documentation of our lives be digitized and made available to people most and to historical research in many fields. In the hearing held by the Committee, the situation of the linguistic professions was highlighted in particular. Some languages are considered more difficult than others to learn for the Nordics, and there has been a desire to extend the Bachelor's degree from three to four years. This supports the Center Party. It is also very important that there is enough money to add to such an extension if it is adopted. In addition to the extra difficult languages, it is important to ensure that enough candidates are trained in the more ‘common’ languages, such as French, Spanish, German and English. In primary school today, almost half of those who teach English are without formal credits. It is not good for a subject that we expect students to learn from the first stage. There's something better in high school, but there's also the big need. Finally, we are moving towards a choice. During the day I was asked if we could be sure that voting was safe at the time of the autumn. I guess it was thought of hacking, but just as important it is to be observant of fake news. This could be a challenge to the harvest of the political parties. A ‘truth’ can be created and shared and lead to the playoffs of other parties and up-and-coming debates that do not actually need to be rooted in reality. Therefore, critical thinking is more important than ever. In addition, it is essential for all subjects, including humanities, to have digital competence, and this is where we have at least thought that we should be able to use ex.phil. or ex.fac. for those who are required to take higher education. In the message of quality in higher education, there were three areas that were very important. It was throughflowing, relevance and proximity to work. It is worth mentioning also in the treatment of this message that the institutions must be concerned with the close follow-up of the students. They must ensure that research is relevant and that candidates are relevant to the labour market. We miss, like several, more detailed discussions and concrete proposals on how the government intends to do this. In the end: briefly within the practical-esthetic subjects. It is a pity that the message does not take up these subjects, as several of the practical and aesthetic subjects are humanities. At the NHO conference Friday before the weekend, the position of practical-esthetic subjects in the school was a theme. It is very important to raise these too, so that in the future we will not be standing without skilled teachers. If these subjects don't get lifted, we'll get a poorer school. The humanists are also important to make sure that we get the wide school many of us want. I'm addressing proposal No. 2, on behalf of the Centre Party, Left and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8059	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8064	In the last few years, we have witnessed the emergence of populist movements in Europe and the United States, which have in common the nourishment of them by deepening their respect for knowledge. It affects researchers or professionals in different fields, such as: climate, people working in the public sector, human rights, nature management and child protection. In several countries, confidence in independent courts and the free press is also beyond reach. At the same time that this is happening in the United States and Europe, the media public is changing quite dramatically, especially with the emergence of the social media and with the relative decline of the edited media. There are great opportunities for a broader debate, but at the same time there are great demands for understanding society, knowledge of sources and critical thinking, and not least digital competence. Former popular political movements that shared with today's populism that they grew up in opposition to elites, had the dissemination of knowledge as their goal. In Norway, this resulted, inter alia, in: in the introduction of public schools and public information projects. The solution when knowledge is under pressure is more knowledge for everyone. That's also the answer this time. That's why it's very good that we get a message about the humanities, not least that it's coming now. It is, of course, a broad political consensus on what is contained in the communication. At the same time, we all see that there are some challenges we are facing in the future. It is pointed out that more research is needed and that there is a need for more cross-border cooperation. Today, a lot is happening in key arenas such as the university and higher education sectors. But it's also elsewhere that we have to raise the humanities and the significance of the work that's going on there. Let's talk about, for example. libraries, archives, museums, art and cultural management. The potential for lifting humanities also there and allowing them to take part of the work ahead of us is absolutely present, not least in cooperation with the UH sector. As many people have experienced, we face major challenges in terms of integration, migration, major technological shifts, environmental, sustainability, etc. There are important issues, and although we are not going to talk down other professionals or other subjects, it is clear that the humanities also have their position in this and have to take a role in solving the future challenges facing us as countries and societies. The left agrees that closer cooperation between the humanities and teacher training is important. But it is also important that there is cooperation both ways. The humanities must also be more active in the development of Norwegian schools, and they can do so both through curricula and, in particular, through educational work. That is why the Left supports the proposal that the development of educational resources should be included in the credit system for universities and colleges. We believe this is an important job. The Committee distinguishes a little layer in this respect with ex.phil. and ex.fac. – whether it is mandatory for all courses covered by the UH Act. Today it is such that ex.phil. not required at state universities to obtain a Bachelor's degree. Ex.fac. is required in some cases, for some subjects or faculties. The reason why the Left wants to lift this up is that we believe it is important to become more aware of the basic challenges of science, and that it is important that we train our students in critical and independent thinking. Not least, it is important if we see it in the light of the discussion about the declining degree of respect for science, research and knowledge. We are going to vote in favour of the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, where we are also involved in the comments in advance, which is about exploring how to organise your own topics on critical thinking, insight into science theory and source criticism in all higher education. We see it as a matter of course not creating one program that will apply to everyone. Of course, it is possible to adapt the offer to the direction of study chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8081	The great strength of humanities is to understand, analyse and interpret people, culture and society. Therefore, humanities must be an important premiscible for the public debate, and the labour market must be better equipped to use humanities in new fields and in other disciplines and sectors. Unfortunately, this big message is too little in the discussion on how to improve relevance and good practice are shared between the humanities. It is a clear weakness that the notification does not clearly show how the relevance of working life in the humanities can and should be strengthened. There are many good analyses in the Communication, but at the same time it is characterised by few concrete tools and responses to the challenges posed by the humanities. concerned that the new funding scheme for universities and higher education institutions could unluckily affect several of the subjects of humanities. This is because completion of Bachelor's and Master's degrees is rewarded, but not the credits, as it used to be, and that's what we fear about smaller subjects, like the language subjects. The interest in humanities is created at school, and if students' ability to think critically and analytically, creativity and education is strengthened, the school must base its work on a broad knowledge view. Unfortunately, this government is helping to narrow down the knowledge of the school and reduce the professional space of teachers and the ability to create a more practical and varied school day, where all children with different assumptions can have equally good chances of success. We can see that, among other things. as regards the prioritisation of the practical-esthetic subjects, because they are also humanities subjects. The practical-esthetic subjects need to be strengthened in school, and there is a weakness in the communication that it does not contain mention of these subjects. It is of great value to our society that there is competence to create artistic and cultural expressions, and it is of great importance to the school and our working life that respect and space for practical learning are strengthened in every school in Norway. It is within the practical-esthetic disciplines that the proportion of teachers who lack depression in the subject is greatest. For this reason, on several occasions SV has made proposals to introduce competence requirements for teachers who are required to teach in practical-esthetic subjects and to make one practical-esthetic subject compulsory in primary school teacher training. In addition, the Stortinget has already asked for a plan to strengthen practical and aesthetic subjects, including practical and aesthetic subjects at school, in the short and long term. The plan must include, inter alia: address the recruitment of qualified teachers for these subjects, and it is symptomatic of the view of learning and knowledge that has been governing under this government that the work is not a priority. We support the message's ambition that humanists should be more involved in the development of educational materials in schools. However, there is a challenge to the absence of incentives in higher education that pay off for educational development. In order to achieve this ambition, and to stimulate quality in the development of textbooks and other teaching materials, SV believes that a relevant measure may be to include educational resource development in the merit system in the university and higher education sectors, so that we can in this way stimulate researchers and professionals to choose to make more educational material. That is why, together with several other parties, we have proposed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8096	This is the first time that there has been a comprehensive political review of humanistic education and research in Norway, and I am quite proud of that. The reason for this, of course, is that the humanities are an under-utilised resource facing major societal challenges. I note that the Committee and the Council also agree with that. It's a very good starting point, and it's a thorough and constructive attitude. In particular, the Communication points to the relevance of migration challenges, sustainable development and new technologies that can change our whole way of life. However, humanistic knowledge is also relevant in a wide range of other areas, not least in business, such knowledge can be better exploited. The humanities of previous research policy documents have not always been particularly prominent, to put it mildly. As a result, there may be clear indications that the research policy instruments, perhaps in particular the programmes and support mechanisms of the Norwegian Research Council, have not been adequately adapted to the humanities’ work and characteristics, and that is some of the background to the notification. One of the most important steps in the Communication is, of course, the better integration of humanities in the Research Council programmes, and it is therefore essential that the humanities are not treated as auxiliary disciplines or as supportive subjects, but integrated at their own premises. Research funded by the public should be publicly available and open publication should also be an important part of the research infrastructure. The government wants to be a cautious country in this area. By doing so, we believe that we support the objective of open publication, but recognise that realistically, it is a step forward and that we must not create schemes that are detrimental to Norwegian research in the longer term. An important measure in the Communication is the establishment of a national consortium model for the financing of high-quality open Norwegian journals in just humanities and social sciences. Language subjects are also an important part of the humanities. The government wants to strengthen both Norwegian, neo-Norwegian and Sami — it should have been book goals, neo-Norwegian and Sami — as a social language in Norway, and at the same time the knowledge of foreign languages. Being able to have a foreign language is both about knowing culture and also about being able to put words in context and knowing what values they have. Knowledge of the cultures of other countries is necessary and valuable knowledge of all international cooperation. Therefore, the Communication contains a number of measures to strengthen the linguistic disciplines. The government has received praise from the humanities that the message is written in a way that they can recognize and that shows an understanding of the specificities and needs of the humanities – that the message does not have a simplified, instrumental approach to humanities. A common understanding of the situation and opportunities of humanities is a good starting point for identifying actions that can strengthen humanities education and research, including the links between working life and school. So in this area, as in others, it's a balance sheet because universities and colleges in Norway also enjoy a high degree of professional, economic and organisational freedom, and it's a freedom that essentially serves us well. They are expected to act within the framework of a comprehensive national policy, at the same time allowing them to evolve according to their own strategies and priorities. That is why this Communication is not a restriction of academic freedom, and I am also pleased that the Committee stresses the importance of free and independent research. Of course, that doesn't mean that we as elected representatives, who distribute the funds, can have opinions about, for example. priority areas, but research shall be free and independent. I have formulated it as if this message were not to carry cups of water to the humanities, but to lead them to the great river where the financing actually is. This applies not least to the programmes of the Research Council. Nevertheless, the notification also contains measures that cost money. Measures requiring fresh resources are proposed, such as: national consortium model for the purchase of journals, the extension of Cristin to include research carried out by archives, libraries, museums and cultural memory institutions and subsequently also the extension of the Bachelor’s degree in some particularly difficult languages to four years. At the same time, a number of measures and schemes are also continued, such as the Sámi Research Programme, the Higher Education Apprenticeship Support and the Secondary School Class Exchange Scheme. The humanities notification must therefore be seen in conjunction with other processes where it is granted or prioritised. Not least, it must be seen in the context of the long-term research and higher education plan, which will be revised next year. Then the humanities are going to have a bigger place than the current plan. The content of the communication also includes the structural and quality messages, all of which aim to improve the quality of Norwegian research and education. In particular, the chapter on humanities and the school has received a lot of positive responses. This suggests that many people are familiar with the situation description and agree that there is a need for a more active approach between the disciplined humanities and the professional environments working with school contents, primarily in the various teacher training courses. I would also just like to add that there is also a balance here with the professional autonomy of the institutions, but with this message the ministry sends a clear signal of direction, to which we expect to be listened to and followed up. A majority of the committee, which I have not yet seen as a majority in the Chamber, has asked the government to assess measures to ensure the practical places in the school of humanities students. There I would like to point out that we have recently put forward a strategy for teacher training where practical places in school are being discussed, and that would be natural for the ministry, regardless of whether that proposal gets a majority or not, to also assess the content of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8120	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8125	We are now handling an important message. What has happened in the university and higher education sectors in recent years is that all subjects have been research-based. That's a good one. It develops the subjects, and we're getting more and more master degrees. We're going to get it, for example. in the field of teacher training. But it also presents students with new challenges. There are stronger expectations and demands that you have an in-depth understanding of what research is, and what is not research. How does the Council of State think that we should ensure that all students have the tool with them, so that they understand the depth of and are able to interpret and preferably participate in research? Politics is about wanting, and then I wonder how the Council of State will ensure that this happens on all subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8132	I fully agree with the description of the representative of Aasen. Therefore, where we have control over the framework plans in the ministry, for example: in teacher training, we require scientific method. It is quite right that scientific methods have a core in themselves that will be the same for all those who are engaged in some subject that is research-based, and that is in practice all subjects. I assume that the representative Aasen wants to brush me into the proposal for a type of compulsory ex.phil. and ex.fac. for all those covered by the Law on Higher Education. I'm very pleased with ex.phil. and ex.fac. at universities. But I'm skeptical about also imposing on the new professional universities with all their professional width or absolutely all the colleges to have a type of half-years or full-year ex-phil. and ex.fac. by model from the old universities, is a good idea. I believe that the scientific method must be integrated into the disciplines.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8139	Yes, now perhaps the Council of State went further in describing what it should be than any of the proposers have done. But it is easy for such issues to drown in the other subjects, and that, when it comes to the problem, there is not really much teaching about exactly this in professional subjects that have a weak tradition of research and science theory. So then I'm so disrespectful that I repeat my question: how is he going to make sure that this actually happens? Just research is very important to the Council of State, I have understood during these four years, and then it is absolutely vital that all the students have clear thoughts about what it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8144	I'll try not to repeat my answer. But where we make the framework plans, for example. in teacher training, we demand that it be method instruction as well. I just think that the question should really be turned around. If it were that we couldn't even trust that Norwegian universities and colleges were interested in learning their students' basic scientific thinking, which is the very foundation for these institutions being existing, maintained and can be dynamic organisations, then we would have had far bigger problems than I think. It turns out that my answer to that is that of course we can be pretty sure that they also have an interest in. So I don't want a more detailed management or more framework plan management, for example. of more subjects than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8151	This means that the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8158	We have soon returned this entire period of government – four years in which we have had a strong focus in education policy on research and higher education. The government has provided a long-term plan for research and higher education, the structural message for the university and higher education sectors, the quality notification for higher education and now the humanities notification. In addition, the government has delivered its own notification for higher vocational education, the vocational schools. Overall, this shows a breadth and strength in efforts to increase the quality of higher education in Norway. We're a small country, and we're a high-cost country. We depend on exploiting our skills smartly, and our main advantage is our ability to exploit and develop skills and knowledge. We're in the middle of a technological shift. We celebrate frontier-breaking technologies. At the same time, we are implementing a necessary real-discretion lift. But in this very setting, I am particularly pleased that the Minister of Knowledge now also raises the humanistic subjects. And I'm not a moment in doubt that the humanities deserve more attention around their contribution to society's development than they often become part of. It is said that a society that is only interested in the present, the present, the economic benefits and the acute problem-solving is not viable – but that knowing history is also crucial to understanding the context of society. I agree when the Committee emphasises the necessary balance between work relevance and education. At a time when we have major challenges, which many have been facing here, related to climate, globalisation, migration, people's movements, conflicts and war, productivity and industrial development, it is in place with a broader debate around the contribution of humanities to understanding and addressing the major societal challenges. I feel that this message is making a loving contribution to it. Humanities have been criticized for living their own lives, at a safe distance from everything called business. The humanists themselves have sometimes shaken their heads at the fact that the business community does not understand the competence they possess. I mentioned earlier in this room that the headmaster of the University of Agder recently announced that he would use this year to identify how all the students at the UiA can get work practices into the studies. It will be useful for the quality of the studies. At the same time, it will help the professional community to clarify and enhance its competence and contribution. It'll be an exciting opportunity for the humanities. With this message, we are just linking the humanities more closely to the work of solving some of the most important challenges of our time. This is perhaps the message's most important contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8171	I have a brief comment on this with detailing/non-detailing universities and colleges. I don't think anyone here is really ready to make framework plans for most subjects. That's something that belongs to the units of frequency. But what might be a point is that we underline in the debate and in the message, and in the comments that we have made – because it is basically text and not so many concrete proposals – what more people in the Chamber have addressed, namely how important critical thinking is, how incredibly important it is, and it has become more significant lately, to understand the difference between documented facts and statements. I think the representative Iselin Nybø had a very good post about it. I might have wanted the Council of State to focus more on that particular aspect, that it is needed in absolutely every subject, whether you are studying technology, language, humanities, social sciences or whatever it is. Then I'll bring up proposal No. 1, which I should have done in my first post.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8178	The representative of Marianne Aasen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8183	I would just like to thank you very briefly for a fine debate and for a fine communication from the government, which has given us the debate on the importance of humanities in the societal challenges. So I want to comment on the very last post, which is about practicing critical thinking, and the questions that were asked to the Council of State at the turn of the line, and remember that that is exactly the whole point of all the quality work that the government has done now in the last four years, by working to enhance the quality of higher education and research through the long-term plan, through structural changes and through its own big message of quality in higher education. This is how we all, best of all, ensure that we have high-quality institutions that provide high-quality education – which then of course also includes learning away the ability to think critically.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8190	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 24th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8206	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8215	Today we are dealing with a big message about learning, early work and quality in the school. I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. The government points out in the Communication that the Norwegian school is in a positive development, but that there are also challenges. Central measures in the Communication are to introduce a legal obligation to early action, to enhance the competence of specialised education in schools and to introduce a lower school-quality threshold, where schools that score below the lower limit are to be assisted by a coaching body. In the long term, the government will consider requiring municipalities to receive assistance from such guidance corps. Increased support is also proposed for local work on quality development and an innovation fund for testing actions and local school research projects. The batches agree on a lot in the setting, but there is also a disagreement about some points. I'm assuming that the different parties will explain their positions, and now I'm going to explain the Christian People's Party's view of this message. I believe that the message contains good intentions, and also many good suggestions. It is a good idea to clarify the obligation to provide intensive training to students who are dependent on reading, writing and billing. I am pleased that an overall committee supports this being a low-threshold offer without a requirement for extensive proceedings. Anyone who has problems cracking the reading code does not always have time to wait for investigations and proceedings. Help must come right away. Nevertheless, it is important that this does not go beyond the right to expert judgement and individual decisions on special education. But the most important thing that needs to be put in place for the students to get the help they need as quickly as possible is teachers who have enough time to help them. That's why we have to stop crowded classrooms and teachers who have to go home after the end of working day with a bad conscience because they didn't get to help everyone who needed help. That's why we need more teachers, and the Christian People's Party has had an important impact in this period: 1.3 billion. kr in earmarked funds for several teachers from 1 to 4. class. All Norwegian municipalities have now been given the opportunity to recruit more teachers for the youngest students. But we also need a norm, clear rules that say something about how many students we can have per teacher at each school, and we need a norm at school level and for the whole primary school, as the Christian People's Party has suggested twice in this big time period. When we want to give teachers more time for each child, it's also important that we manage to recruit enough teachers. I will perhaps come back to that in a later article in the debate. It is also important that those in need of special education receive it, and it is important that they are provided with the help of a educator who has the competence to help them. It's a bad idea to give those students who need the most help to get help from the least qualified teachers, but there's unfortunately the situation in many places today. The government will consider introducing a further training offer in special pedagogics for teachers. That is good, but the majority of the committee has already carried out an assessment and stated in its opinion that this should simply be done. Then I think it is great with an offer of state aid to those municipalities and schools that are struggling a little extra to get a proper swing on the learning process. We have to set quality standards for all schools, but we know that there are great variations in how much school actually contributes to students' learning. Nevertheless, I think it is wrong to identify which schools need drug treatment by introducing a quantitatively defined lower limit after which all schools should be assessed. Quantitative information must not be the only measure of quality. I think we can manage to help those schools that need help, and figure out which schools it is, without introducing another national ranking of schools with all the negative consequences it will bring. I think the schools that are struggling know that for themselves. I think the municipalities that are struggling know for themselves. I think that the State, with its academic competence, also knows that, and I think it needs a more discretionary assessment, based on a broader set of indicators. I therefore hope that the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to introduce a follow-up scheme based on a broader set of indicators reflecting the school's broad societal tasks, as well as the County's discretionary judgements, will have a majority. Then I'll bring up those suggestions in the setting that the Christian People's Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8247	The representative Anders Tyvand has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8252	Every single day, thousands of planes are flying and landing in Norway. A comprehensive apparatus is in turn to get us from A to B: the personnel taking care of the check-in, security controls, the total flight review before each take-off, cabin crew, pilots and employees in the flight tower. A sea of technical factors must be in place to do well, as must a sea of human factors. We simply do not accept that it should go wrong. All aeroplanes shall proceed safely. Every day tens of thousands of lessons are offered in the Norwegian school for even more students. A comprehensive set of tools has been put in place for students to learn as much as possible: skilled teachers, educational support staff, child and youth workers, janitors, SFO staff, etc. A sea of human, material and technical factors must be in place to do well. In spite of this, we accept that a little bit too many people don't get completely into the goal. Every year there are 28 000 students who do not complete basic training at a normal time. Around half complete and never complete the initial training. Many of these have already fallen from primary school. This is a matter of urgency. This was the introduction to the post I held in this room in 2015, and it really fits just as well now. The reason for this was the Workers' Party's proposal to increase early efforts, which included: suggested that all students who needed it and who followed it should be quickly provided with additional training so that they learned to read, write and calculate within the second stage. The parties to the Government voted against the proposal. So 2015 went over to 2016, and 2016 went over to 2017, and now, on the very last day of the debate, the Education Committee has in Stortinget, we are going to discuss a big message where we recognize much of the same thing that we proposed in 2015. Let me first say that we're happy that we're now going a step further. But this could have happened a lot before. The reasons have been many. The government has voted against several good proposals – yes, five or more times they have voted against our proposals to increase early effort in this period. The year has passed, even more have fallen away, and that is not good. We agree that there is a need for a reinforced obligation to follow-up of students who are following, but if it is to work optimally, we also need more teachers who can spend more time helping each student to achieve their goals. This is one of the reasons why the Workers' Party wants more teachers in school and that a national standard for teacher density should be established. We want more teachers, especially the youngest students, because it helps to ensure early work. Paragraphs are not enough alone; there is also a need for more wise, caring and helpful heads. One of the things that has created the most debate in the Communication is the way the government will design a lower limit of school quality on which the schools are to be measured. Many hearing bodies have been critical of this. We fully agree with the Student Organisation that there is a need to create a system that ensures more that students receive an equivalent training offer across the country, but that the set of indicators to be considered by municipalities must be broader than the government has proposed. It does not include a tab of the student survey and any selected results on national tests; the training of students is too important to create such a narrow assessment system. That is why, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we are promoting an alternative proposal to create a follow-up system in which additional assistance and guidance are offered to municipalities and schools based on a broader and more comprehensive set of indicators, as well as the County's discretionary assessments. In this way, we get a follow-up scheme where the focus is more knowledge and more insight, so that the schools and municipalities that need it can get even better help. The working party considers that it is also appropriate to consider whether to allow the State to provide guidance to municipalities and schools that do not provide a training offer of satisfactory quality over time. Time is running out, and my speaking time is almost over. Five minutes goes very fast. It also does four years, but there'll be limits, the government has spent too long on this. This can't be called early effort, on the contrary, this is late effort. I bring up the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind in the document that has not already been included.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8269	The representative Christian Thinning Bjørnø has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8274	In fact, Norwegian school has been on a rather spectacular journey since 2001. We're the country that spends the most money per student, but we don't have the best results in the world. This means that more resources do not automatically lift the results. We also need to discuss what we're spending resources on, how we're fixing resources, and how we're helping those who need it the most. In 2001, when there was a change of government, the previous bourgeois government started work on the Knowledge promise, as well as introducing national tests, transparency of results and an open societal debate on what is good at school, and what can be better. We have already received some of the results of the work that was done that time. For example, the international PIRLS survey, which measures students’ literacy skills, shows that Norway, after the introduction of the Knowledge Promise, has gone from 12 pst. by our fourth grade cut below the critical limit in reading, that now there is only 1 pst. which cuts below the critical limit. In many ways it can be said that when the Knowledge promise came, it was one of the most important not just school reforms, but the social policy reforms that have been made in this millennium. And now, in this period, we have had a new bourgeois government that has carried out the teacher's vow of time – a teacher's vow that has once again recognised that we are using most in the world, but that we do not have the best results in the world. So we have to spend the money on what creates more learning. And by strengthening the most important input for students' learning, the teacher in the classroom, they have now also raised their skills and ability in Norwegian school to adapt their teaching better. School policy takes time. From something introduced to it shows changes at the other end, it takes time. Now the bourgeois government is proposing a new, important reform, namely a large-scale reform of early school work. The fact that you are now saying that you are not just going through a simple decision, but actually have a right to adapt education and to receive special education if you need it is in many ways a revolution for those students who have experienced that they have been sitting on the school bench either and bored themselves because they have learned too quickly, or that they have fallen off because the teaching has gone too fast. At the same time, they say we should have a closer follow-up of the municipalities as school owners. Yes, it is good that we have local school owners, yes, it is good that the municipalities and the counties are the ones responsible for the schools in Norway, but it cannot be that where Mother and Dad bought houses, the chances of success at school are determined. Professor of pedagogy at the Hedmark High School, Thomas Nordahl, has been able to demonstrate that if you are a boy who lives in North Hedmark and has two parents with only high school, you have three times as much chance of completing and passing high school as if you are a boy and living in South Hedmark. The reason is that in Nord-Hedmark, six municipalities have joined forces to do quality work, measure quality, but also discuss how they can lift students. That's very good. But it cannot be left to chance where that effort is put. That is why it is so important that we now have a message that seems to have a great deal of support, which says that we should set a lower limit on school quality and put measures in place and offer help to the municipalities that need it. And it's not just about knowledge or the ability to read or write or really calculate, which is incredibly important, it's also about students' well-being and that too many students get bullied at school and experience nothing happening. That's why it's also a criterion to measure school quality that the students are well-being and well-being. In addition, the ability and willingness of local politicians, municipalities and counties to be active school owners must be preserved. This is why school skills are also strengthened, so that teachers, school leaders and municipal politicians together can drive more school development than they do today and have the skills to do just that. It's also about strengthening the skills of the principals, so that they can be what they really are: an executive in a workplace where you not only have to produce values, like in other companies, but actually produce whole people who will succeed and live the rest of their lives. So this message is essentially, not to say the whole of it, being accepted by the Stortingen today. It deserves it, because the Council of State has done a thorough and good job of taking the next step in the bourgeois school reform: from the promise of the Knowledge, to the Teacher's promise, to a grand boost of early effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8291	‘Teaching — Early Work and Quality in School’ is a very important message, and I am pleased that the government has presented it. It contains a lot of good measures, which will provide students with better learning outcomes in school. Important measures in the Communication are to introduce a legal obligation to early action, to enhance the competence of specialised education in schools, to make higher demands on the proportion of pedagogues in kindergarten and to strengthen the competence of school leaders. Among the measures the Progress Party will bring forward is the proposal to introduce a lower school-quality threshold. The municipalities that may be located below the lower limit will, among other things: be calculated from the results of national reading and billing tests, primary school scores, learning environment — and the proportion of students who declare that they are being bullied or kept out. In our view, this is a broad range of criteria, which will provide a good and varied picture of students' learning outcomes at school. The current municipalities will receive assistance from a school-experienced guidance team. There is a lot of good happening in Norwegian school, but there is no doubt that there are also basic challenges in school, which have to be met through, among other things. a stronger commitment to early action and strengthening the skills of teachers. The introduction of master’s education, enhanced further training and the introduction of a test scheme of teacher specialists are key steps that the government has put in place and can have a significant impact on the further development of the role of teachers in the future. For the Progress Party, it has always been a goal for students to learn more at school. Then it is essential to capture and support students who need help. Research shows that early in the course of training measures have a higher impact on pupils’ learning and personal development than measures later in the course of training. It is also important to increase the proportion of students who complete and pass secondary education. The progress point here will indicate that the implementation rate has increased to 73 pst. in recent years, which is the highest degree of implementation since the start of the measurement. Hopefully that suggests that we're on the right track. When the SSB brought this up, they said that there is reason to believe that the concrete quality measures that have been implemented have had a clear impact. Increased emphasis on early intervention, national real-life investment and quality enhancement in teacher training – in combination with higher skills requirements – are important factors. In addition, the Professional League has included a number of measures – which the Progress Party has worked for for a number of years – to reduce the drop-out rate. The Progress Party is pleased that there has been close dialogue between teacher training environments, KS and organisations working on a strategy for teacher training. It is an objective to establish mutually committed and developing partnerships between teacher training and schools and kindergartens. In this context, we in the Progress Party will point out the importance of the school’s full use of the competence of the teacher’s staff. The planning and implementation of the teaching and evaluation of and feedback on student work must be the primary task of the teacher. The school must therefore have a different apparatus to deal with reporting and commercial tasks. The teacher's main task is to be a teacher, not a bureaucrat. There are still some challenges in this area. The Progress Party will also highlight the important role of the school libraries as a tool to support students in achieving the objectives set out in the curriculum. International research shows that children and young people who read varied scientific literature at the school library and in classrooms develop an commitment to reading. The studies also show that well-developed school libraries and partnerships between teachers and librarians are essential for the development of a reading culture. School libraries are also important in learning source criticism. The Progress Party would point out that the Training Act is clear that students should have access to the school library throughout their initial training. Finally, I would like to stress that there is a lot of good work done in the school. Unfortunately, it is also such that many students are met with a waiting-and-see attitude, instead of taking hold and giving students who are struggling, early efforts. Therefore, the Progress Party is pleased that schools are required to make early efforts. This, together with the various measures taken and the measures contained in the communication, will improve pupils’ learning outcomes in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8312	As I see it, this message is an attempt at a follow-up to the NOU of the Ludvigsen Committee. The Ludvigsen Committee report was received with enthusiasm - it is sad that unfortunately this message does not have the same enthusiasm. A grand boost for early effort I would hardly call it. Governments presented this message to the media in a known style in good time before the actual message was published, so that the media wrote about the government's desire to market. We in the opposition in Stortinget therefore had nothing but plans to deal with when we were asked what we meant. My reaction then – and now – is that there is a lot of interesting reading, but little new, despite the fact that the government itself presents the measures as powerful. For fun, I did an online search a while ago to check out some words that a person would like to associate with the title of the message, namely ‘teached’. If you ignore the headings of each page, the word is used five times in the whole message. ‘In-depth learning’, which was emphasised by the Ludvigsen Committee, has also been used five times. The words ‘practical-aesthetic subjects’ are referred to once, ‘critical thinking’ are referred to zero times, and ‘play’ is not mentioned at all in the whole message. I heard the council say on the radio today early that playing was something they wrote about when they talked about kindergarten. It says about kindergarten in the message, but not one place on the 110 pages is the word "toy". The term ‘national tests’, on the other hand, has a total of 21 matches and the word ‘quality’ has a total of 290 matches. It's a play in words, but it certainly says a lot about this government's focus and view of learning in school. So to the rest of the content: early effort. It was not just me who was stunned when this was presented – for the first time by the Prime Minister and then by the Council of State – as a new measure. The young people would now be offered help earlier. But the municipalities already have an obligation to make early efforts. It was underlined in the regulation, which was introduced by the red-green government. That government is now going to legislate intensive training is okay, but in practice there is no difference. The most important thing is that the schools now follow up. The story of «Aleksander», which we could read about at nrk.no yesterday, I hope many have read. It tells us what the individual school should do now. The history of ‘Aleksander’, who travelled to Finland because he did not fit into the system at home, is also very descriptive of why the Centre Party has proposed that early efforts should not only be limited to 1–4 pupils. steps, but must be valid throughout primary school. In the case of special education in addition to what we consider to be early follow-up, the Children’s Ombudsman has shown in a study that 70 pst. by those in need of special education are taught by non-qualified school staff. It is therefore good that the majority in the Chamber on a subsequent case will make proposals for young people to have the right to receive training of personnel with the relevant professional competence. The central party opposes the Government's proposal to remove the requirement for a single decision. Like several of the hearing bodies, we are concerned about the legal certainty of the students. I refer you to the comment in the option about it. So to the proposal that has created the most trouble: the introduction of a lower limit on school quality. It's the Center Party against it. In Report. St. 28 for 2015-2016, which was examined by the Committee last year, made it clear to the majority that the quality assessment system should be based on the school’s broad knowledge view, build confidence in the teachers and facilitate increased professional space for action. The government was asked to carry out a review to ensure that the quality assessment system ensures this. Instead of following this and changing it, the government almost chooses to go in the opposite direction. The corresponding system has been strongly criticised in other countries, where it has also been used to value the pay of teachers. It's a dangerous way to go. I understand that those who work to create such control systems will defend their job, but it is amazing that no more are seeing the challenges of the growing bureaucracy, asking questions about control and resource use. Of course, schools that need it should be helped to improve. The county already knows which schools and municipalities need follow-up, but here the reasons may be many, including that one who is struggling to get skilled teachers. As you know, there are more non-qualified people working in school today than it was before this government took over. Competence in the education sector has been a recurring theme during this period, and I do not think it is necessary to repeat what the Centre Party believes, whether it is a teacher education or a teacher's competence requirement or a character requirement for admission to higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8333	Would the representative Mr Tingelstad Wøien like to comment on the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8338	I'll deal with the suggestions we have with others, and what we have alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8344	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8349	A good school is important both for the individual and for us to have a good society. Through a good education, we make it possible for everyone to pursue their dreams and abilities and make a good life for themselves. It is also through the education system that we are making it possible to solve the major societal challenges. It's not long since we had Left's Document 8-proposal on Teacher's Lift 2.0 up here in the Storting. But also in this case a lot is about the teacher. It's the teacher that's the school's most important resource. We're facing major challenges in the future to ensure that enough students want to learn, that we can fill the classrooms with competent teachers, and that we can hold the teachers at school for as long as possible. The Children’s Ombudsman had a review of special education for some time. Unfortunately, it turns out that it is not as good as we had both hoped and had reason to expect. As I have understood from the Child Ombudsman's review, the main problem is that the quality is too poor. In too many cases, there is no requirement for what students should be able to acquire from knowledge and skills. There'll be too many alternative schemes. In addition, teaching is too often carried out by persons without relevant training. It turns out, not surprisingly, that special education is like other education — it is the teacher who is the key. But early efforts are not just about special education. It's about each student getting help with what they're struggling with, as early as possible. Starting primary school is really too late. A PPU leader once told me that if you have two kids starting in the first grade and one can double as many words and concepts as the other, then he who knows fewer words and concepts will never take back the one who knows the most terms and words. On the contrary, he's the one who knows the most when he starts in the first grade, which is going to subtract. It says something about how important it is to get started early. And it says something about how important the learning that's going on in kindergarten, not least as the linguists are. That is why I am pleased that during this period we have invested in, among other things, free core time and therefore ensured that it is not the parent’s economy that keeps children outside this important learning arena. Then I'd like to hit a blow for the school libraries. Very often these are forgotten a little bit. I don't know if it's because the school libraries are being questioned, or if it's simply because they're such a natural part of school everyday life that they're a little forgotten. In the left, we believe that the school libraries are a unique arena both for learning and for finding pleasure in learning. In the new technological everyday life, school libraries also play an important role in the dissemination of source criticism and the use of technology. The left considers it to be both important and useful, therefore, with a communication on the role of school libraries and university libraries in education, and we hope that this proposal will have a majority in the European Parliament today. The practical-esthetic subjects are important. We're going to educate whole people, and a variety of subjects is absolutely crucial. The left considers that there should be no reason to make lower demands on those who are to teach in these subjects. That is why we believe that in the long term, masters must also be taught in practical-esthetic subjects. At the same time, we are concerned about the recruitment of these subjects. We believe that there is reason for the ministry to pay extra attention to this and consider whether the exemption from masters to be admitted to PPU training needs to be extended for a longer period. Such an assessment considers that we need to be consulted with the sector. The left is concerned that all kids should go to a good school. Most municipalities and county councils are good school owners who work for the best of their students, but we agree with the government that there is still a need to follow up the municipalities that over time are unable to keep a good enough level. In order for this not only to be a ranking in the newspapers of which schools are poor, and which are good, we believe it is important to look a little more comprehensively at what should be assessed when we talk about quality. There should also be some more discretionary exercise related to it, and we believe that it can also make the follow-up more targeted. The comments mention proposals for criteria that can be included, but I would like to stress the importance of a professional assessment of what is appropriate. We cannot risk the indicators leading to excessive numbers of schools being followed up. This should be an offer to those who labor the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8366	The debate on the future school has been increasingly marked in recent years by new directions and new tones, but it is largely due to the government. This is due not least to the recommendations made by the expert committee chaired by Sten Ludvigsen – the so-called Ludvigsen Committee – that the school needs to improve its knowledge, that the curricula must have fewer objectives, and that there must be more time and space for in-depth learning, creativity and lifelong learning in Norwegian schools. Despite the fact that the Storting largely agreed with the advice of the Ludvigsen Committee on what the school of the future should look like, the government has little followed it up in this communication. On the contrary, I believe that the message and government in crucial areas are taking the school in the wrong direction. With some of the proposals in this Communication, the government reinforces target management based on control and ranking, leading to further narrowing of school knowledge and building on further theorisation and uniformisation of education, as revealed by the evaluation of the Knowledge promise. A child does not prepare for the future by mastering as many learned responses as possible in the shortest possible time. Instead, more depth learning is needed, so that students can understand the core of the subjects, see contexts across subjects, and learn how to find and make use of new knowledge. In the future school, practical and active learning needs to be used to a greater extent than today, and there must be room for creativity and culture. Therefore, the most important thing for the future school is: more teachers, so there will be more time for each individual student a school trust reform to reduce unnecessary target management, control, ranking and testing; time and space in school for a more practical and varied school day, which is why SV proposes a time shift in primary school where we will take time from the school leisure system and home lessons and create a longer day in primary school – the full day school – which can provide the basis for a more practical and varied school day Increasing teacher density will enable schools to succeed in making early efforts. It will give teachers a better opportunity to create a more practical and varied day of school for everyone. SV has on several occasions made proposals to amend the national quality assessment system. It is a central part of our proposal for a trust reform in school, and it is in line with the recommendations of the Ludvigsen Committee. We will therefore once again ask the government, in cooperation with the sector, to do something about the quality assessment system. In this communication, however, the government is proposing a follow-up scheme in which municipalities with poor school results over time are offered assistance from the guidance body. We are strongly in favour of assistance from the guidance body, but in order to identify the municipalities that need assistance, the ministry has moved in to develop a so-called indicator set that defines a lower limit of quality. There is strong concern in the sector about what this will mean, that too much emphasis on test results, user surveys and other quantifiable results will be another contribution to narrowing down the school’s broad societal remit and not least too easily understanding quality. Again we see what has become a characteristic of this government in the field of knowledge: it does not listen to professionals, and it does not listen to teachers in particular. We believe that the County and education authorities have the information that is needed to identify municipalities and schools that are struggling. Therefore, we do not believe that there is a need for a so-called national lower limit based on a narrow indicator set. As it appears that the majority will nevertheless support the establishment of such a lower limit, the SV will vote in favour of the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that in this case it will have to be based on a broader set of indicators. Indicators for both structure, process and performance quality should be included in the case. We do that in the hope that with it we can contribute to the majority for this. I will return to a couple of other points that are important for SV in connection with the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8397	The purpose paragraph to which the Stortinget joined a few years ago, sets some very ambitious goals for the Norwegian school. The school will open up the future and the world to the students. Students shall develop knowledge and skills that enable them to master their lives and to participate in working and social life. The school shall meet the students with confidence, respect and demands and provide them with challenges that promote education and learning. Reaching those goals is not the responsibility of teachers, principals or others who work at school alone. It is also our responsibility – as elected representatives. We are the ones who have the opportunity to make these visions reality. Equally important is the fact that we are aware that Norwegian school should also not be controlled in detail by flooding or government in order to achieve these objectives. Our job as politicians is to help the school solve the problem of giving all children and young people good learning, more knowledge and a good school day. This is precisely what the apprenticeship message is about — facilitating quality development in schools adapted to local needs. At the same time, we also make clear demands for the student because it must always weigh heavily – regardless of demographics, geography or economics. We can't have a situation where it's so dependent on where you live, what quality and learning you get in school. I want to start with something that is surprisingly little mentioned in the setting, namely a large grip that changes the way national authorities contribute to quality improvement in school. In this work, we build on both the promise of knowledge from the Bondevik II government, Kristin Clamet and Right, and the Teacher promise from this period. With the Knowledge promise, more responsibility was transferred from the state to the municipalities. The government's major investment in, among others: further training of teachers and conditions of immersion provide a good basis for municipalities to discharge their responsibilities towards pupils. Now we're taking the next natural step, that's to use more of the means that the government uses to develop the school, through the municipalities. We want the school development measures to take place where they are actually used. The framework may be laid by the State, but it is the local analysis of what is needed to determine what action is to be taken. In 2017, the municipalities will thus receive a transfer of 100 million. kr to be used to develop the quality locally. In the long term, the state will support local school development up to half a billion per year. In addition, we are creating a system that gives us more research-based knowledge of what actually works in school, so that you don't listen to politicians who turn research results into each other. This gives us a lot of opportunities. At the same time, we also put in a safety valve, when we say that we want closer follow-up of municipalities that, for various reasons, need support and guidance in order to be able to operate their schools better. This major conversion has received a lot of support. At the same time, many people also say that it's going to take time to build good cooperation relations locally, and we have to take that into account. This message also marks a continuation and an enhanced early effort. 10,000 students go out every year with so weak skills in mathematics and reading that they can get problems with further education and work. The problem isn't always legal, but it's still so that for many places there's a wait-and-see attitude. There are too many students who are struggling professionally and socially, and who are not getting help early enough. That's why we need financial incentives. We need changes in laws, as the government suggests, and we also need a new teacher training with several initial experts sent out to school. I also want to say something about the quality assessment system. I don't understand why anyone wants to present it as a target and result management system. Training at school is characterised in Norway by a wide range of knowledge. It's a great professional room for action. The quality assessment system is there primarily to be a tool for the professional communities. What we've done is we've put this system forward in its full width, and that's because the Storting should be able to make some clear choices, not just make vague orders to the government, but if you want something to go away, be honest and say what it is you want to go away. Someone's clear. The Socialist Left Party wants to abolish national tests for everyone, the Central Party wants to get us out of the major international school surveys, but there is no majority for that. In terms of indicators, I would first like to say that these are not just narrow indicators that measure on the basis of some national samples. I would also like to discuss whether there are other indicators that better express the overall quality of the school, but there are some things we have to think about. First, there should be indicators that are the same for everyone, that is to some degree standardised. This means that, for example: The character sections can be a little bit difficult if you're going to go down on the individual subject, even though we're also using primary school credits. The second is that there should be output and not input factors, because it is not that we want to end up giving extra state support to Oslo, which may use less per pupil, but also has quite good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8416	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8421	At the end of his speech, the Council of State was somewhat concerned that the government had received a lot of criticism for the proposal to define a lower school-quality limit based on a narrow set of criteria. It is a narrow set of criteria when it is narrowed into some national samples and very little in the pupil survey. Fortunately, the political opposition to this is great in Stortinget. The working party will have a follow-up system based on a broader set of criteria. We want a system where you gather more knowledge, so that schools and municipalities that need it can get even better help than the government adds. The government parties do not agree with this, and it amazes me. How can a minister of knowledge disagree with the need to use as much knowledge as possible to help schools improve?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8428	We have to use as much knowledge as possible, but let me just first say that this is not as subtle as the representative wants it to be, because it includes primary school credits, national tests in different skills, bullying, support from the teachers and motivation. It's pretty broad, and it captures quite a lot of the school's activities. However, as far as possible knowledge should not imply imposing more indicators on municipalities or schools. I believe that is agreed in this Chamber. We don't want schools to start filling out new forms, have new registrations, new tests and new measurements because it's going to be into a national minimum standard. In other words, we should base ourselves on the information we already have. The second thing I think is important is that we should be primarily concerned about what comes out – not what we put in. That is, resources and stuff might be less interesting in this context. We're concerned about how the students are doing and what they're learning. So I'm more than happy to take on the challenge of finding even more indicators, but my starting point is that it's not going to lead to more bureaucracy in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8437	That is also the starting point of the Workers' Party, so we thank the Council of State for being positive about looking at a broader set of indicators. But if we're really going to succeed in the fight to ensure early action, we need to have more teachers in school. Therefore, the majority in this room is for a standard of teacher's density. Regardless of the design, everyone is clear on the need for more teachers. In the VG, the state council repeats what we've heard of the boring before, that better teachers are more important than more teachers – as if there were some contradiction in it. Let it be clear: the working party wants both. Can the Council of State in the last education debate answer clearly: Will the Right, or will the Right not, have more teachers per student in the Norwegian school? It's a yes/no question. If I know the Council of State right, he's probably the most concerned with the Labour Party's policy, and it's pretty clear: we want more. But what does the Right want?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8450	The right and government want more teachers in school. It was just supposed to be missing. When we reach e.g. introduces the largest recruitment package of times, not because we don't want more teachers in school. Once we've agreed with the Christian People's Party and the Left in 1.3 billion. kr more earmarked for more teachers from 1 to 4. Steps, it's not because we want fewer teachers in school. We want more teachers at school. When we are also concerned with such things as continuing education, master training, better practice, better guidance system and have followed up all of this, it is because we know that good – which is the word I use – teachers are even more important than just more teachers. Then, since the representative assumed that I would do so, I have to pay a visit to the Workers' Party. The Labour Party spent eight years in government fighting against a national teaching norm. Now they have finally come to realize that they are too, but they are for a norm that no one is satisfied with, and that the Workers' Party cannot even say what is. The fact that the Workers' Party is unable before elections to concrete its most important election promise is alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8457	I just have to say that instead of focusing on the lower limit of quality, it would have been an idea to make sure that we have enough qualified teachers in school. Then I think maybe we'd have gotten rid of these new systems. I want to ask if the Council of State read about «Alexander» at the NRK recently – and I don't just want a yes or no response, because I have to follow up here now. It was about early work or lack of such work, and that ‘Alexander’, who attended school in Norway, did not find the right place, did not manage to do the school, but came to Finland and experienced how they were doing, both with school psychologists and with early efforts and individual follow-up of him as a boy. We have proposed that early efforts should not be statutory only for 1–4. steps. I wonder why the government is so determined that it's only 1-4. Steps to get this early effort, when we know that this applies to students throughout the school cycle.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8465	That's a good question. Then it is important to say that adapted training applies to the entire school cycle. This applies whether you are in 1st grade, 5th grade or 10th grade or through high school. As far as I remember, this case was about «Alexander», which was initially also a pretty good student, who had great potential. There the government has done what turns out to be new work, through the Jösendal Committee, which was just on high-performance students. Some of this is already being followed up in this staging message. But the reason we want this strengthened duty as an early effort is that the foundation laid down in the first few years is so crucial. Then it is quite simply that when there is too much waiting-and-see attitude in school, we really need to press to change the mentality that some places unfortunately are there – including the municipal politicians: saying that they are satisfied that children are not being followed up and thus leaving school without, for example, leaving school. to be able to read and write properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8472	Now I don't know if «Alexander» was high performance, but at least he was better than his mother's headcount. But he had, among other things, ADHD, and I don't see that there's any very big difference between this with early work and adapted training – it's one side of the same thing. If you're going to have early efforts for someone like this. struggling with something in reading, the early effort coming in there will be the adapted learning that the learner receives. Therefore, I think it is a little disappointing that the government adds that it should only apply from 1 to 4. steps. I've been wondering, does it have any economic significance? Is that why it's like that? I don't understand why it's limited to 1 to 4. Steps, because I think it's very bad for the kids who go to school today, who could have benefited from this. With regard to what the Council of State was finally about, what we wanted to take out when we went to fight goals and results, the Central Party is to take out both PISA, national tests and... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8479	The time has come, and the representative has to come to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8484	I had no question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8489	I have seen the Central Party as very clear and clear about what they want to take out, and also the Socialist Left Party. Then we can disagree. Adapted training must apply throughout the school cycle. It is a general obligation on which all training is to be based. But this is an obligation that we impose not only to have it in the law because it's fine, but that it should lead to a change of practice in schools. That's something quite specific we want to achieve. We don't exactly control the way the municipalities do it, but we're sketching that a natural way to do it will be, for example. intensive training for the students who are following, early. I understand the argument whether it means that a student in the 10th grade will not have the same reinforced duty – yes, that means. But that doesn't mean that the student is not entitled to adapted training. That means that this duty, this reinforcement, we are primarily concerned with the early capture of the children who carry a disability for the rest of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8498	The council said in its speech that unfortunately there are too many people going through school without really knowing what they should be able to do. The Committee has been concerned with special education in its comments. Unfortunately, its use seems to increase beyond school, that we use it more in high school and less in high school, and that there is a general desire to reverse this – that action can be taken early, in the hope that there will be no need for so much help later in the course. That makes sense, even logically. At the same time, we know that there will still be a need for special education. When the Children’s Ombudsman had his review, he showed that special education was largely given by unskilled people. There are plenty of sausages, food and alternative facilities — and too few professional requirements for students with the potential to stretch. My question to the Council of State is, what does he think we can do with special education so that the students who need it get a good offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8507	The report from the Children’s Ombudsman confirmed what I believe we have known for a long time – and have had figures for a long time – that there is every reason to believe that much of the special education in Norway is too much, too bad. It's in a situation where, on the one hand, too many people get it, because some students might have better benefits from being in a normal class instead of getting special education. On the other hand, you have parents who have to fight to get organized at all. One of the things that the Children’s Ombudsman unfortunately also confirms is that there is often a low expectation for the student. I fully agree with this with special pedagogical competence, as the government has also proposed. But then I see that Stortinget is talking about relevant professional education – it is possible that it is in a later case – and I am a little uncertain about what it is. I think we should agree that the gold standard for education, including for special education, should be that there is a teacher – a teacher or a special teacher – who has the teaching. I think it'll take much longer before we get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8516	In a chronicle in the VG today, the Council of State again calls for increased teacher density as a tool for increasing quality in school, but is talking hotly about what he calls increasing quality of teachers, if I remember the use of words correctly. I then wonder: Under this government, the proportion of unskilled teachers who teach in Norwegian classrooms has increased sharply. It must be a failure statement for a government council that is so clear that the quality of teachers is important. How will the Council of State describe its own government's results, when, after four years, we have a significantly larger share than before that which is not qualified to teach in Norwegian classrooms, but which still does?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8523	I'm aware that the standard in Norwegian school is that teaching hours are held by a qualified teacher, with depression in the subject. Then there may be some temporary needs, etc., but the fact that you have non-qualified teachers who for a long time are employed in the worst cases to save on the municipal budget is not okay. The solution to this problem is to ensure better recruitment, especially for those parts of the country which are particularly affected, e.g. in the north. Then it has to be added that there may be something about the question, and it may also be that the temporary needs created by the massive investment – the triple of further training – that this government has faced, unfortunately, has also increased somewhat, but we do not know that yet. My point was – that’s why I in the VG use the words ‘Good teachers are more important than’ and that it does not automatically give any improvement – that given that we need to prioritise, I believe master’s education, further training, better practice, better guidance schemes, all of this, is even more important than an automatic increase in the number of teachers due to a norm.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8532	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8539	I think the representative Asheim said it very well: it can't be where Mom or Dad chooses to buy a house, which determines how great a chance you have to succeed in school. Nor can it be that it is where Mom and Dad choose to buy a house, which determines whether you get a teacher who has time to help or not. But this is the situation today – as long as we do not have clear rules for how many students each teacher can be responsible for. We need more teachers in school, not just to give teachers more time for each student, but also to make sure that all students meet a competent teacher in the classroom. Today, the use of unskilled workers in school is higher than ever, but it can get even worse, because while hundreds of students do not get into teacher training, hundreds of study places are empty. This will lead us to miss out on many good teacher students in the future. This is about the fourth requirement in mathematics. Yesterday I received a question from the representative Asheim that I would lower the character requirement for the medical study if it was such that you could not fill the places with qualified students. After thinking about it, I would much rather be operated on by a trained doctor who might have had a poor German character from high school than be operated on by an unskilled. But the government says that it's better that our kids learn to read and write by an unskilled, than by a trained teacher who has a bad character in math from high school. This is an unreasonable policy. This is going to reinforce the teaching shortage in the future. It also makes the separation of experienced teachers because the government has strengthened the skills requirements of those who have already completed their education and have worked in school for many years. I want to warn the government and the knowledge minister not to let there be any prestige in these matters. The intention may have been good, but the consequences can be serious. It doesn't help if the government introduces rights and obligations, if we don't have enough teachers to teach our children well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8551	We all want our students to go to the world's best school. When parents send their six-year-olds to school, they should be sure that the children are taken care of by professionally strong teachers and that they are well at school. The right and government goal is for students to learn more at school. We have a good school, but it can still get better. Early effort is one of the main efforts in this message, and I fully support it. The joy of breaking the reading code or mastering the math exercises must be experienced by all students. Some students need a little extra help to succeed, and they need to get the help they need. One of the main measures of the message, as we have heard, is that the government will give municipalities the obligation to provide intensive training to students in the first to fourth stages, to those who are left behind in reading, writing or billing. There should be a low threshold and the path to assistance should be short. This intensive training shall not require expert judgement or extensive proceedings; it is the individual student concerned. I have also noticed that there has been some debate in the committee, and also here tonight, on the government's proposal on the lower limit of school quality. However, local school ownership is strong in Norway, and this is still the case. It's up to the school owners and the schools to decide how to teach their students what to do. However, this does not mean that national education authorities should not have expectations of the municipalities and the counties, and that we should not follow up on local developments. We all know that there are some school owners who need extra follow-up, so that the students get the school they're going to have. I think it's right of us to make a system for that. The lower limit of school quality is to be based on a complex and broad set of indicators, which is also confirmed by the Minister of Knowledge here. My hope, of course, is that no municipalities will end up below the border, at least not for longer. The message we're handling, it's Learning. That's a good name. Learning and mastering give more taste. The six-year-olds who start school after the summer want to learn. We have to make sure that they meet a school that takes care of it and that develops their apprenticeship until they reach the age of 13. That's our challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8564	Just briefly about some of the issues that the centre party has been particularly concerned with in this setting: it concerns in particular the uncertainty that has been created about admission to the PPU for the arts and crafts subjects. Today there are exceptions from the masters to be taken up to the PPU. But the letter of consultation from the ministry raises uncertainty as to what this exception really means. The Council of State has said that there should be a derogation and the letter of consultation of the Ministry states that it is a pre-requisite that the recipients should be creators or performers. In most cases, students with a bachelor's degree in art and crafts will also be said to be performers or creators. Therefore, we have proposed that this be clarified now by the Storting saying that such a definition requirement should not be imposed – in order to calm the sector and not to tear down the ground under the practical-esthetic disciplines that we are now at risk. We were also a little involved in the previous case. So this clarification is not to be done by the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, despite the fact that the arts and crafts are the subjects where most teachers benefit from having a study score. It's sad, and I'm glad that the Center Party has been so clearly notified over all these years that we're marching on a path to a narrow school where we lack competence in subjects that are essential for being creative, creative and thus competitive in the future. So a little bit about the fight against the target management regime: the Committee asked, as previously referred to, for a review of the quality assessment system, and in Chapter 6 of the message, government tries to describe itself. The conclusion is that it is good as it is – this despite the fact that many of the tests are not educational. The government itself describes that the system as it is today can lead to unwanted target shifts, which, in turn, can lead to a narrower school and to training for students to do well on tests. Unfortunately, it happens to a great extent, and if it connects it to economic incentives, it gets really bad. I hope that the Council of State will say clearly that it should not be allowed. This message is based on a review of PISA numbers. I think it was commendable that the representative Asheim referred to the PIRLS study. That also means that we have other numbers. The knowledge of this message is therefore based on studies that are neither educationally promoting nor based on Norwegian curricula. It is a paradox — not least when the government's conclusions are that they want what it is today, but that municipalities and county councils should be helped to improve data assessment. Actually, they should be helped to get skilled teachers. Finally, we have proposed to provide a big message on the library sector, which includes both school libraries and professional libraries. We know that libraries sort under the Minister of Culture, and school libraries are under the Ministry of Knowledge, but we believe that the role of the school libraries is so important and so little attention that it would be wise for the Storting to raise this sector and see how important the world of books is for language development and also for the social life of the school. So I really hope that the Christian People's Party will join the proposal, so that we can get a big message where the whole sector is illuminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8579	The teacher is the school's main resource to facilitate a good learning environment, which creates learning for all students. Teachers with a high level of professional, social and pedagogical competence are essential for a good school. We are therefore pleased with the historical effort that has been in training for teachers during the period in which the Progress Party has been in government, and with the introduction of more skills requirements and more stringent entry requirements for teacher training. These are measures that contribute to improving quality and status, and to the completion of early teacher training, and which will contribute not least in the long term to the completion and completion of higher education for more students. In the Quality Communication on Higher Education, we stressed in the Progress Party that we are pleased that competition as a quality improvement tool is so clearly highlighted in the Communication. We believe that competition and transparency about the results are important factors for quality development also in basic training. It is essential to have knowledge of the situation in each school in order to further develop quality and student learning outcomes. The party of progress will therefore stress that we are followers of national tests and other screenings that make the individual principal, teacher and school owner always aware of the situation at each school in order to be able to put in place the necessary measures so that all students get the help they need and learn what they need. The Progress Party will also underline the importance of full transparency so that parents have access to knowledge of the quality of schools. Information on the results of national reading and billing tests, primary school credits, the learning environment and the proportion of students who declare that they are being bullied or kept out must be widely available. The progressing party will warn against a development where you slowly but surely go back to a school where you don't map learning outcomes and where there's no transparency about the results in school. In order to succeed at school, it is important that qualified school managers and a well-functioning professional community are involved so that teachers can develop teaching practices throughout their careers. Nothing can replace the teacher’s competence and contact with the individual student. Teachers who are professionally safe are also less bound to fixed arrangements and methods. They can vary and further develop education and give demanding tasks and challenge students to abstract thinking. In order to ensure a school where students learn more, the Progress Party will continue to invest in the further training of teachers. The teacher's lift with her actions and efforts gives quality, which in our view is more important than quantity. Norwegian students deserve the best possible school. That's what they get with the Advance Party and the Right at the rudder.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8594	I want to mention another question, in addition to what I took up in my main post. Because when the government is eager to strengthen the training and to strengthen the basic skills of students in reading, writing and billing, it is difficult to understand that they have simultaneously stopped developing voluntary tests of character and learning support in primary school. It is a direct consequence of the so-called efficiencies clause, which was in reality a deprioritisation of, among other things. the school and health services in the 2017 budgetary agreement. By means of systematic writing instruction, some schools are able to develop their writing skills. On the basis of the work and results of the national sample samples in writing, the NTNU Writing Centre has developed learning resources available to Norwegian schools to develop writing instruction and to strengthen students’ writing skills. It shows that national sample sizes and the voluntary character and learning support tests in, for example: writing works well as a educational assessment tool for teachers, and helps improve learners’ learning outcomes. Therefore, we consider it unfortunate that the sample samples in writing are not mentioned as part of the national quality assessment system and that the voluntary character and learning support tests are not prioritised. SV believes that all national samples should be sample samples and that the quality assessment system should primarily act as a pedagogical assessment tool. Instead, we see that the government's priority is to develop a quality assessment system more based on control and ranking. Finally, let me make a brief reflection on the proposal to legislate an obligation for the schools to ensure that students who are following are offered intensive learning in reading, writing and billing. SV supports it, but at the same time I think it is important that we reflect on the potential for a development in which children are increasingly being measured and weighed and sometimes found too easy. It represents, in the worst case, a simplified view of how children learn and develop. At 66 pst. by students who are currently receiving special education, alone or in small groups, is unfortunately an indication that the ordinary education is currently not well enough to care for all. Then the answer must not be to create more and more special groups that lead to alienation, it must be to listen to what students and teachers themselves say they need, namely more teachers and more time for each individual student, in combination with increased competence, among others. in the field of special pedagogy. We must not lose sight of the objective of an inclusive single school, and compensatory measures must not be at the expense of measures that can strengthen the regular training provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8607	There were two things that made me redraw. One is the discussion of the quality assessment system and the national tests. Because it is true that both the SV and the Centre are proposing to turn the national samples into sample samples, i.e. slightly in line with the PISA study, only that it is considered that the PISA study can be reported, because it is not research-based, but one wants to convert the national samples into the same model on which the PISA study is based. It will also, of course, cause this lower school level limit to lose a very important parameter, because if you do this as a sample, you won't be able to break down the results at school level. You won't be able to do that in many smaller municipalities either. This again means that you no longer know well enough where to put the resources. We've been in a rather special situation now, because if it happens that the SV and the Central Party subsidiaryly ensure the majority of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left's proposal to maintain a lower limit on school quality, but with more criteria, i.e. with more indicators and more reporting, it really means that the SV and the Central Party ensure a majority in the Stortinget both to maintain the lower limit, as proposed by the State Council, and to oblige the Right Party Government to instruct Norwegian municipalities and schools to report more. It is then – I think – contrary to what you wanted primarily, which in turn means that you are going in the opposite direction of what you wanted. SV has already made it clear that they will ensure a majority for a proposal that imposes more reporting, but it could be good to know whether the Centre Party also wants it, which will mean more bureaucracy, more reporting in school, with a limit of quality that is in any case adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8614	I had to have a comment on the government parties' presentation of their own efforts in this matter. On the one hand, it is gratifying that there is a message of early school effort. That's what's needed. On the other hand, it is so late that it is first and foremost a confirmation of four lost years in implementing early efforts. The government parties have all since they got into the government offices, knowing about the numbers of non-responses. They have been aware that too many students are getting help too late. They've seen the figures for special education, which are too much inserted when the students go to the eighth, ninth, tenth grade, not the first, second or third grade. In fact, the government's message and the measures are so late that there will be no consequences for school students until after the government's four-year term is over. To use one of the government's favorite expressions from the previous magnification period: it's too small, too late. The working party has proposed to bet on early efforts several times during the period. All the parties to the Government, the Right and the Advance Party, have voted against. They have voted against early efforts in the last three state budgets. They have voted against the proposal for a read, write and calculate guarantee. They have argued against the Workers' Party's wish for more teachers. They've drawn their legs in terms of staffing standards in the nursery. They have argued against bets in SFOs and activity schools, even though students, for example, are not aware of the fact that they have not been able to participate in the SFOs. in the first class spend almost as much time on the SFO as they do on the school, and there is actually an unused time that could have been used to bet on early efforts. Today, we can read the Minister of Knowledge's contributions to the VG on early efforts. There he spends as much time on the Workers' Party as he does on his own policies. He criticises, among other things: The working party for the proposal on teacher norms, and says that it is not strong enough, while at the same time he states in the same post that the most important thing is not more teachers. He talks out of both mouths at once. But the most significant feature of the article is the Minister of Knowledge's view of what can be characterised as early. In the post in the VG, the Minister of Knowledge writes: ‘In March of this year I have already sent out’ the call for early action. «Already in March», says the Minister of Knowledge, who has been sitting in the Council of State for three and a half years before he manages to come up with a comprehensive policy of early action, three months before the Grand Duchy is over, and is being dealt with three months before the Grand Duchy elections. «Already in March» is not early – it is late. And for the thousands of students who have gone through school these four years, it's too late. We need a commitment on several teachers, a standard on teacher density, read, write and calculate guarantee, bureaucratisation of school day and a boost on SFO and AKS. All measures have been voted against or opposed by the government parties, but this is to be implemented by the Workers' Party in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8629	Thank you for the debate. Anne Tingelstad Wøien deals with this with PPU and practical aesthetics. What it's an opening for is that for those who have a Bachelor's degree in performing and creative arts and sports, they keep it with a bachelor's degree. But there's never been any mention that there should be a general opening for all practical-esthetic subjects. In that case, it would mean that we have lower standards for the practical-esthetic subjects than for the other schools. It's not a review, it would be a review. Then we have the same discussion one more time about four requirements and teacher training. Just so the figures are clear: the number of students who met for GLU – i.e. primary school teacher education – in the autumn of 2016, is on level with 2012. I will continue to recruit more, therefore Christian People's Party is included among others. large recruitment scholarships. It is higher than in 2010 and 2011, slightly lower than in 2013 and 2015. Just so that's said, it's also worth mentioning that in the autumn of 2016, the applicants applying for teacher training had better grades than the applicants in previous years. We have reason to believe that will provide better implementation, and that is actually the first time that the GLU 1-7 has been recorded on the national average. Then the representative Lysbakken has a good reminder, because in special education we talk about segregation as a problem. Permanent leveling, which was the Right Policy – at least to a greater extent – once in the 1990s, does not work. What has good effect, on the other hand, is to have a group division in shorter periods. But I fully agree that this should not be a new specialty education sector government. With regard to the discussion about these indicators, the representative Asheim asks a timely question, but I have to say I interpret the bulk of the population very clearly to the point that you do not want this to mean new reports to the municipalities or schools. In that case, it's okay if I'm corrected. And then finally, our early effort did not start with this big message. This brings together actions presented in the budget, which have also been presented in the past. In particular, master training for teachers with the possibility of specialising as a starting expert is a very important early intervention. 1,800 more teachers, or funds for 1,800 more teachers, of which the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government Parties agreed, earmarked 1–4. Steps and build-up over several years are also early efforts. The most eye-catching thing about the Workers' Party's reading, writing and calculating guarantee is actually two things: the first is that they still have not been able to explain what this guarantee is. The second is that they have managed to explain it so badly that the municipalities of the Workers' Party obviously do not follow up. After all, you can start arranging in your own house and see why even municipalities where the Workers' Party has power cannot even use up the teachers' money they have received from the bourgeois majority on the Stortinget to hire more teachers in 1–4. steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8646	Audun Lightbakken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8651	Thanks to the Council of State for the clarifications related to my last post, I agree with what he said. Brief to the representative Asheim's post: when we approach a so-called lower limit, it is because we fear it can contribute to further development towards too narrow a knowledge view in school, ranking and too simple a view of quality. Then, when we don't get a majority for our proposal to reject it, we want to fix it as best we can, with a slightly broader set of indicators. I have seen from the government that these indicators and this scheme should not lead to an increased reporting burden. I then assume that it is possible to do this a little wider, still without increasing the overall reporting burden for the municipalities. Then I believe that when the government has submitted a proposal that we believe is very bad, then the Right cannot attack the SV for subsidiary voting for a proposal we believe is less bad, but neither is it so great.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8662	Anne Tingelstad Wøien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8667	It's like a choice between plague or cholera, because it's like the SV representative said that we have made a proposal even when we ask the government not to establish a so-called fixed lower limit of quality in primary school. Then we also see that it's going to fall. So then we have the choice between voting in favour of the Right and the Advance Party's proposal or of the Labour Party's proposal, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Then we have also chosen to do as SV, that we have secondary and very unwilling votes in favour of proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox We don't want this to be done, we think it's the wrong use of resources, because we know there's going to be a lot of people following this. We believe that the money should also be used to ensure that we have several qualified teachers out in Norwegian school, because that is what is the challenge for many schools today, that they do not have access to skilled teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8673	When it comes to the fourth requirement and recruitment of teachers, I don't think the Council of State should settle for the fact that the number of applicants is now at the level of 2012, 2010 or what he chooses to compare with. The situation is that the number of applicants decreased with the introduction of the fourth requirement. It continues to go down this year. The result is that hundreds of teaching places are empty, while we know that hundreds of young people want to become teachers, without getting into teacher training. This is something that should also concern the Workers' Party and the representative, Thinning Bjørnø, who is afraid that we accept too much that things are going wrong in school, as opposed to air traffic. If we're to prevent things from going wrong in school, the most important thing we do is to make sure that we have enough teachers in school. Then I have to notice that the Council of State is drawing up the earmarked funds for more teaching positions in 1-4. class, which the Christian People's Party has negotiated, as part of the government's commitment to early efforts in this ageing period – while writing in national newspapers that this is not the most important thing we do to raise the quality of school. I would like to thank you for a good debate on an important topic. I think we share a lot of the same intentions, but we're probably a little bit in disagreement about what are the most important ways of raising the school, and to ensure all the students the help and follow-up they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8684	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 25-digit number
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8700	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8709	The document makes the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to present its own report on a strengthened culture school for the future.’ There has been a good dialogue in the Committee on this matter. The Committee points out that cultural schools, like the public libraries, are part of the nationwide cultural infrastructure. Culture schools are an extension of the general training provision of primary school in practical-esthetic subjects and play an important role in strengthening the cultural competence and joy of children and young people. The Committee acknowledges the role of cultural schools as a contribution to the achievement of life for pupils and the community, and therefore considers it important to facilitate the continued contribution of cultural schools to the development of valuable cultural ballast for students. A majority of the Committee would also stress that it is an important principle that municipalities as owners of the cultural school should be able to determine the content and scope of the offer to a large extent. In this way, there is room for local adjustments for the many and sometimes different municipalities we have in the country. It has now been 20 years since the law enforcement of the cultural school, and there may therefore be a need to look at the development, status and achievement of the cultural school. Furthermore, it would be natural to look at the subject areas that exist and to provide better statistics on what is going on in the country's cultural schools. The Committee would stress the importance of seeing the relationship between cultural schools and schools, but it is also important to see the cultural school in the context of other cultural work. The Committee points out that civil society – the voluntary cultural and organisational life – has played a positive and important role throughout the history of modern Norway. The Committee will highlight the importance of civil society for personal responsibility, voluntary community, creativity and spirit of virtue. These are values that are important to take care of and that are crucial to the trust of society. The Committee would also point out that artistic freedom and diversity are one of the cornerstones of any democracy. It is therefore appropriate to facilitate increased cooperation with private voluntary forces in the cultural school. The Committee points out that the Ministry of Culture has recently launched work on a new communication on culture. The content of the Communication has not yet been clarified, but the Committee considers it natural that cultural schools should also be mentioned in this Communication. The majority of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the SV are aware that the Ministry of Culture has initiated the preparation of a major communication on culture, but will stress that the municipal cultural schools are an independent, statutory school team, and that it is the Minister of Knowledge who has the constitutional responsibility for the cultural schools. This majority further indicates that the cultural school has its legal foundation in the Education Act, but that no further national leadership for the school has been provided through regulations. The initiative to establish a framework for the municipal cultural schools, to decide on the future organisation of the cultural school sector and to provide national leadership for the further development of the school type is of the opinion that the Minister of Knowledge should come from the Minister of Culture rather than from the Minister of Culture. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that the Ministry of Culture’s first communication on culture will not provide the Stortinget with the most appropriate basis for a thorough debate on the further development of the cultural school, and that there is a need for a separate communication on the subject of the Ministry of Knowledge. The members of the Committee of the Right and Advance Party feel that it is important to contribute to the strengthening of the work of the cultural school and to facilitate the provision of good cultural ballast and competence to the schools of culture. These members indicate that it is an important principle that municipalities as owners of the cultural schools must be able to determine the content and scope of the offer themselves and that room must be provided for local adaptations. These members believe it is natural that the strengthening of cultural schools is seen in the context of the government's announced cultural message and is given its natural place in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8738	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs from the Christian People's Party who are making sure that the cultural schools get their own case and debate here in Stortinget. The cultural schools have not exactly been deprived of attention from government teams in recent years, but the cultural school has a high schooling in the municipalities, and it is probably high among the people most of the time. Hundreds of thousands of children and young people have been in the cultural school, have been tested in music, art and culture, have developed their creative skills and have taken cultural ballast to life. Almost 100,000 students attend cultural school this school year, but the number has fallen in recent years. We have a challenge in school. The practical and the aesthetic have been given less space over the years. The competence of the practical-esthetic subjects should also be higher. The cultural school has changed, and we believe it is in place with a review that clarifies the framework for the offer. In Report. St. 20 for 2012–2013 On the right track, presented by the red-green government, actions were promoted to strengthen, inter alia, the the practical-esthetic subjects. An expert group on art and culture in training, set up by the same government, also pointed to challenges for these subjects. Unfortunately, the follow-up and efforts of the government are weak in this area. The most obvious greeting to the cultural schools of these four years was that the government in its first budget cut the cultural school hour for all students in 1–4. class. Suggestions in the message have not been followed either. It's the opposition that has had to bring the government on, for example. to present a plan for the practical-esthetic subjects, adopted when we discussed the position of the Ludvigsen Committee, albeit somewhat reluctantly and against the proposals of the Council of State. Here it is the sector and the opposition parties that have had to drive policy development. The aim of the Workers' Party is to make culture and the provision of cultural education more accessible to all children and that the economy should have less to say. This is why we will implement a new cultural promise, which will gradually increase culture's share of the state budget to 1 pst, so that more children and young people will be able to participate in culture by reducing the threshold for participation. Several children shall be given the opportunity to attend cultural schools at a reasonable price. This can be done in connection with the school and in connection with the SFO and the AKS. It is very gratifying that the majority in the United Kingdom points out that the offer at the cultural school can be coordinated with, among other things. The SFO offer. There is a need to raise the school leisure system also by increasing quality and lowering the price, and a few months ago the majority of the government asked the government to evaluate the SFO offer and to provide a major SFO message. Today we are asking for a big message about the cultural schools. Schools, SFOs or AKS, cultural schools or other voluntary offerings should definitely be seen in context. Here the government should not divide the work into strictly separate silos, but look at the possibilities that cooperation and coordination can offer. Culture School in the SFO can strengthen the SFO, and it strengthens the cultural school. There is a need to raise cultural schools. There is a need to look at the offer, whether we do enough to ensure that all children have cultural schools. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that a communication on the cultural school can help clarify and strengthen the offer, and we are pleased that the majority is in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8751	I might as well confess right away: I'm a fan of the cultural school. It is one of the most important contributors we have to introduce children and young people to different forms of art and culture, to be happy in culture, and to see the value in and participate in and use the cultural offerings in our society. I grew up in the music school myself – the former variant of the cultural school. And my children have grown up with the same offer. In our town, Kristiansand, we have a well-established and good cultural school – which you have many places around the country – that has been helping to impress our city for many decades, and I am pleased about that. The legislative framework for the provision of cultural education in 1997 was important. And together with the cultural school bag, which has gradually become an important offer, this is, as I see it, institutions that need to be well cared for and further developed. There's no doubt about it for me. In this case, it is proposed that the government present its own report on a strengthened culture school for the future. The Council's letter of comment on the proposal for a representative states that the Ministry of Culture has recently started work on a growing communication on culture and that it is now at a stage where its content is to be mapped. The Minister of Knowledge has promised to take the initiative to ensure that cultural schools are also well included and can be accommodated in this message. I understand that there is also an interest in the Ministry of Culture. Culture schools are both an important part of the training system and an important part of local culture around the city and the countryside. It may therefore be relevant to look at this in both school and cultural contexts. And I'm glad that the government says so clearly that they want to facilitate that the cultural schools continue to contribute to students getting a valuable cultural ballast, and that the government also wants to contribute to strengthening the work of cultural schools. It's an important and good signal. In the right rows here on the Stortinget, of course, we also support this. At the same time, we believe that it is an important principle that municipalities, as owners of cultural schools, should be able to determine and influence the content and scope of the offer. Room for local adaptations must be provided. This is also an area where there is strong cooperation with volunteering. In recent years, we have also seen that cultural schools cooperate not only with schools but also with the cultural school system. The cultural concept under national responsibility for the cultural school system shall also provide advice on how to use both the cultural school system and the cultural schools in the school. I guess this will also come out in the cultural message. In the Right, we are pleased with this opportunity to say something about the cultural schools, which we believe are making an important contribution to society, but we do not at this time support the proposal for a separate big-time report on the cultural school. In the first place, we believe it is natural to see the cultural schools in connection with the government's announced big news of culture. We believe that cultural schools should have their rightful place in this. That's why the Right is going to vote for its own big message for the cultural schools today. In the course of the Committee's proceedings, it appears that it is nevertheless against a majority for its own notification. If that is the result today, we in the Right believe that any own notification must be based on sound professional thinking and that it should be based on an evaluation of today's offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8772	The cultural school is an important school battle. Cultural schools contribute valuable competences, provide children and young people with valuable cultural experiences, are important local cultural actors, and contribute to the recruitment of both voluntary and professional cultural life. For 20 years, the cultural school has been a statutory school team in Norway. It is stated in the Training Act that all municipalities should have a cultural school offer. But that's almost also the only thing that says. There is no provision for this section of the law which provides some national leadership for cultural schools or which imposes requirements on municipalities as to the scope or quality of cultural school provision. Then it may not be so strange that the offer varies a lot from municipality to municipality, in terms of both content, quality and scope. In addition, we know that there are now slightly fewer students attending the cultural school than there were a few years ago, while there are more children and young people on the waiting list to get a seat. It gives cause for concern, and I think it speaks for us to now have to take action to lift and strengthen the cultural schools, and that we have to set some new goals for what the cultural school should be. From a political point of view, there has been very little happening around the cultural schools in recent years. What has happened to developments in that sector has been done on the initiative of cultural schools. Last year, the process of developing a new framework plan was completed, and the implementation of the new framework plan at each cultural school is well under way. However, as this occurred on the initiative of the sector itself and not by political or national school authorities, the new framework plan does not have a formal place as a governance document. It is not binding on the cultural schools. The Ministry of Knowledge, the Directorate of Education or the Supervisory Authorities do not deal with it. But if we're serious about the importance of the cultural school, if we're serious about the fact that more children and young people should get a cultural school offer, and if we're serious about our ambitions for the cultural school, it's time that we politicians now take action and set ourselves new goals for the cultural schools ahead. That's why I'm very happy that the proposal for an own big-time report on the cultural school gets a majority in the Stortinget today. A big message about the cultural school will give us a picture of what the status of the sector is today, and it will provide us with a good basis for a thorough debate on the way forward for the cultural schools. Then I have to say that I think it was a little surprising to read the Minister of Knowledge's reply to the Education Committee. Instead of supporting the proposal for an own school report, the Council of State chose to point to another Council of State, to the Minister of Culture, and to show that she has now started working on a major communication on culture in general. But it is the Minister of Knowledge who has the constitutional responsibility for the cultural schools, it is the Minister of Knowledge who needs to set a goal for this school battle, and it is the Minister of Knowledge who can impose requirements on the municipalities and, if necessary, introduce a regulation to the Training Act. Therefore, I find it strange to read that the Minister of Knowledge chooses to point to another Council of State, which does not have the cultural school as its responsibility, even though the cultural schools should also be mentioned in a general communication on culture. Once again, I welcome the support for the proposal. I'm glad that the Stortinget is now giving a marshy earth to the Minister of Knowledge to immerse himself in the field of cultural education. I hope he does, after all, enjoy it. And then the parties may have slightly different thoughts about how the cultural school should develop further. We're going to have a big debate, for example. on the Culture School Hour when we get the message back to the Stortinget, but that will give us a good opportunity to take a thorough debate on when the message is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8789	I'm going to do a very short process and say that it's a good initiative from the Christian People's Party, which the Center Party supports. We've said that we want a new cultural promise and to strengthen the cultural schools, so such a review is very good. We also believe it is important that we now do not have to address what this message should contain, the most important thing is to express support for it. We've read that in some places the kids have grown up almost before they get a place in the cultural school. On social media not long ago, someone said that now they gave up, after standing 12 years in line to get into the cultural school. There are a lot of issues that need to be clarified, and that is why I do not want to withdraw the debate. But I want the Stortinget to be happy with the debate about the cultural school when that message comes sometime, in a new time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8798	I would first like to thank the Christian People's Party, which is raising the school of culture. Culture School is a great offer for many children and young people, who are given the opportunity to try out different things. They get the chance to evolve, they get the opportunity to go from being really bad to getting really good at something. Yes, it has given many children and young people joy, but it has also given many grandparents great pleasure to come to concerts. It has given many parents great joy, and who hasn't had to watch a home video of the kid who just learned to play the piano? There are so many people who have a lot of good words to say about the cultural school and about the offer given there. Unfortunately, the waiting lists are long in many places in the country, and many find it expensive. In the left we are concerned that as much as possible should be able to participate in such important things as the cultural school, and I think it is one of the things that should be addressed in such a message. Voluntary cultural and organisational life has played an invaluable role in modern Norway. There's something that we still have to raise, because the significance has in no way been weakened. I also think it is important to clarify that some of the strength of the cultural school is that it is locally anchored, and that it is a strength to have variation in the local offerings. I'm afraid that a very uniform cultural school would lead to a weakening, so I also think it's important to promise in this context. The proposers point out that it's been 20 years since we got the law of the cultural school, and so it fits very well that we can now get a review of that offer, and that it can be done in the form of a big message. Although there is a separate message in the field of culture, I think it is entirely in its place to separate the cultural school by a separate message. It differs so much from the rest of the cultural offer, not only because it is under the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge, but also because it is a low-threshold offer that is developed in a completely unique way in relation to other types of culture that we have. There's also another kind of potential in the cultural school that I think would drown if you were to look at it in conjunction with everyone else. The cultural school class is one of the things we've discussed here before. The left has raised this in connection with the SFO. There's a lot of possibilities. We can't pre-empt that debate, but I'm happy to discuss it in my own big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8819	First, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for proposing an important theme. For SV, it is of great importance to give all children and young people a real opportunity to participate in cultural schools. The changes in prices and participation that we have seen recently, we believe, make it natural with a national review and clarification of the framework of the offer. The red-green government stressed that children and young people should have access to professional art and culture and could develop creative skills. The priorities of the red-green government in this area are described in several key messages. The cultural school's activities, which are a statutory offer in each municipality, had a central place in the cultural and school policy of the red-green government. In the light of recommendations from a separate appointed cultural school committee, it was made in particular: introduced a free cultural school hour a week, so that all children between 1 and 4. Steps at school were to be included in the cultural school's offer. The Norwegian School of Culture Council was to assist municipalities in the development of the cultural schools and to draw up a new framework plan. In addition, in order to ensure that all children were offered a free cultural school class, the red-green government announced the legalisation of the offer. Participation in the cultural school had a steady increase beyond the 2000s, and in 2013 there were about 110 000 students in the cultural school. In 2016, on the other hand, we had the lowest number of students in Norwegian cultural schools of 15 years, according to GSI statistics. The number of students in the cultural school in 2016/2017 is 99 986, a decrease of about 2,500 students from the previous year. SV is very critical that the Right Party government did not continue the work of the Red-Green government to make the cultural school more accessible to all children regardless of the family's economy, background and geography, and believes that the expert committee report clearly shows what we have said throughout this period, namely that the removal of a free cultural school and the state incentives have been very unfortunate. I think it is important to see the investment in cultural education for everyone in the context of what we do in primary school for the rest, and in the context of what is SV's project: a full-day school to create a more practical and varied school day. Students learn in different ways. Society and working life demand creativity and varied competences. Then we need a more practical and varied school. This will include, inter alia: This involves several hours in practical-esthetic subjects, daily life-skills and a greater requirement for quality in the teaching of arts and crafts, inter alia. through the introduction of a qualification requirement and, in such a school day, the reintroduction of a free and voluntary cultural school for 1 to 4 pupils. steps. It will contribute to a more practical and varied school day, and it will contribute to a school that balances social differences. I would like to refer, since this is the topic today, to the proposals in the municipal bill, for which SV has agreed, as we did in our alternative state budget for the current year, that there must be a strong strengthening in the budget for the funding of cultural schools. We have also asked the government to make proposals on how a maximum price scheme can be implemented in the cultural school. Unfortunately, we were left alone on that proposal. There have been four lost years for the cultural school. There's another thing that shows the importance of this government being replaced, so that we can get a majority who will do what I perceive the proposalers of the Christian People's Party are concerned about, that is, a commitment to the cultural school that makes more people want to participate again, and that we can reach the kids that the cultural school is unable to reach today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8838	I join the description of the cultural schools. So we don't all have to tell about our own experiences with it, but it's worth saying that the cultural schools have changed terribly much and today not only is traditional music education one by one, but it's also theaters and different types of cultural activities. In this way, the cultural school becomes important for all aspects of the creative life of children and for their creative development. Then, as several have pointed out, cultural schools are a statutory offer for the municipalities based in the Training Act, but the content and extent of the offer are up to the municipalities to decide. I think it is important that it is the municipalities that can decide precisely this. And it's a paradox that someone on the one hand describes the cultural schools as very, very good, and that's them, they're very popular, and at the same time they think they have so big problems that the municipalities can't take this. I rather believe on the contrary that it indicates that the municipalities have done this very well. The problem for municipalities has basically been keeping pace and having enough space in the last ten years. So it's important that there's a good connection between the cultural schools and the rest of the cultural life, and it's important that there's a good connection between the cultural schools and the schools. It also fixes the hall of praise. It states that all municipalities, alone or in cooperation with other municipalities, should have a music and cultural education offer for children and young people organised in connection with the school system and other cultural life. The representatives then propose that a key message be presented on cultural schools for the future. I have, as the representative Tyvand pointed out quite correctly, not wanted to make my own announcement or to decide it now, but I think the representative Tyvand was a little skeptical in his presentation of what I said, because I did not say that this is the Minister of Culture's responsibility. I said that the Minister of Culture should present a large, broad cultural message, and that is where the cultural schools also have their natural place, of course with input from the Ministry of Knowledge. This has been discussed by the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Culture. And then, after that, it'll be natural to consider whether you need your own staging message and an extra staging message. In addition, the majority of the Committee has also said that the notification should have a clearer professional basis. They point to the possibility of seeing, for example: The SFO offer and the work done on monitoring and fact-finding there, in connection with the provision of cultural schools. There are questions we can look at in such an evaluation. Maybe we can do that in the context of the SFO evaluation. I agree that if you're going to make a school report and decide for it now, it makes sense to have such a fact collection, to map and first figure out what the situation is. Then probably my starting point and the right starting point will be that this should still be a municipal offer, and that it should still be largely the municipalities that are responsible for both the scale and the resources. But it is worth noting that there is a lot of exciting happening in the field of cultural education, not least that the framework plan was revised in 2016 by the Norwegian School of Culture Council, which is actually indicative, but involves a real new crime. Also, the work of putting the cultural school bag and the work where more closely related to cultural school provision and what happens at school is very exciting and indicates that here there is also an area that grows and grows, and that does it well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8856	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8861	To make school more varied and give all children the opportunity to develop creativity, we need to use all the good forces. Then it's a shame that the most obvious greeting from this government to the cultural schools was to cut out the free cultural school lesson for all 1st to 4th grade students in their first budget. Since then, little has happened. It's true, as the minister of knowledge says, that there's a lot of exciting happening in the cultural schools, but there's now fewer students in the cultural schools than when this government went on. It's actually the lowest number of students in the cultural school since the last right in government. The government parties today are not in favour of a big message about culture school, although the need is obvious. I want to ask the Minister of Knowledge how he views development. As the Minister of Knowledge sees it, has the quality of the offer and availability of students in the field of cultural education increased under this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8866	I don't have the exact figure for how the development has been in all Norwegian municipalities, but in the school year 2016/2017 there were almost 100,000 students in or under primary schools in the cultural schools, and there were more than 20,000 waiting lists. So if that's the case that the number of students has gone down, it also has to be the way that the queue has gone all the way down. I don't have numbers in front of me now that show how it has fluctuated, but when one of the biggest problems has just been that there have been too many queues, there's no reason to believe that there is a reduction in demand or fewer who want to have their children in the cultural school than before. We were quite clear in the 2013 election campaign that we did not want to prioritize a cultural school class, but that we wanted to prioritize school education and professional content. And we did. We made a choice on that, and we did that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8871	The demand for cultural schools has not fallen, but when the number of students in the cultural school has fallen from more than 110 000 in 2013 to less than 100 000 now, it is clear that among others. a tight local economy has led to a cut in places. The cultural school should continue to be a municipal responsibility, but we know that there are no national requirements for quality in the cultural school, and the offer varies between municipalities. It was in the 1990s the cultural school was legislated. It was also the 1990s offer of SFOs that was legislated, and there are a good deal of similarities between the two offers. As Stortinget dealt with the matter about the SFO, the government parties did not want to participate in a request for quality requirements in the SFO. Now they are also against a big message about cultural schools. Is it possible to interpret the Minister of Knowledge so that he is skeptical about setting national standards for quality even in cultural schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8878	Firstly, the wording I use in my reply to the Committee is that I am not in favour of this now, cf. the reasoning for the major cultural message. I don't have any reason to say that it's been cut in number of places, but I'll let myself correct it, because I don't have the numbers in front of me. It's true that I'm initially skeptical of much stronger national leadership for the cultural schools. The government supports the fact that there is going to be a legal offer, but precisely the fact that the cultural schools have been successful, that they are described in a rosy order, that there is a development there, suggests to me that this is a task that the municipalities are doing in a good way. It's a little strange that on the one hand you think that the cultural school is very good, and that it's amazing, what's happening there, and on the other hand argues that the municipalities can't have this responsibility. If that's very good, it has to be because the municipalities aren't half-pastors to facilitate good cultural schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8887	The council says that it seems that the municipalities are able to take good responsibility for the cultural schools, and I really agree with that, because the cultural schools I think are basically good, and there has been a lot of positive in the sector in recent years. At the same time, I believe that the initiative for a common framework plan from the sector itself shows a desire for some common driving rules for cultural schools. But the framework plan does not have a formal status, because it comes from the sector itself and not from Røe Isaksen or national school authorities. What worries me is that we're told by the Council of Culture Schools that there are fewer students in the cultural schools now than a few years ago, while more children are on the waiting list. That means that there are fewer students today who get a cultural school offer. My question is simply: does the Council of State think it's a little stupid? And if he thinks so, will he do anything to improve that situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8894	I think it's stupid if there's fewer children who get the opportunity to go to cultural school. It is simply because I believe it is a very nice, important and good offer. As I said, I do not have an overview of the number of places and developments over time in front of me. But then the question is, what are we going to do with that? It is a bit of a matter that I believe this should be a – legally required – municipal task. It is the municipalities that must have the primary responsibility for it. It is not right that municipalities have had bad finances during this government period. Rather, on the contrary, it is fully at the level of the previous period. Free income has grown as much — even more — during this period as in the previous period. So the municipalities have all the possibilities to do something about it. I'm not against a big message as such, although I think it's wrong now, but I'm skeptical about imposing even more state leaders and regulations on the cultural schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8903	Just to make sure that I understand and interpret the answer correctly from the Council of State: he thinks it is a pity if there are fewer students today in the cultural school and fewer children and young people who get an offer, but he doesn't want to do anything about it. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8908	The first part is correctly understood. But then it's true that if there's something to do with it, it's much more than today that you want to control the municipalities in terms of resources, skills requirements, how much money they need, teacher's density in the cultural schools, framework plan, training programmes, further education programmes – everything we do in school – then the answer is that I don't want that. This is not something that is unknown to Stortinget, because in a number of areas, we're saying that this is a task that the municipalities are shooting at. This means – to our great frustration – that we cannot always go into detailing all the results. We can say that that's good, we can make sure that the municipalities have a liberal economy, like our two parties, the government parties, and the cooperation parties have provided for this period, but we can't go in and rule it out in detail. If that's the question, then this is the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8913	Here it is not a question of detailed governance, but it is a question of adding some national leadership to what cultural school provision should be. Now it's probably the case, if I don't remember wrong, that the cultural school teachers actually got into the government's strategy for continuing education, and that's very positive. But now I understood the Council of State that it really wasn't that dangerous either. But I just want to ask the Council of State at the end: what is the main government that has done in this big period to strengthen the cultural school?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8920	It is very positive that we have decided that cultural teachers should also be included in the further education strategy. My point was that if we're going to build a whole system of government governance, competence requirements, etc., that we have at school, I'm against it. That doesn't mean that any expansion of state responsibility I will in principle oppose, but I'm very sceptical about taking what's a municipal task and making it a state task. The main single measure: not many national measures have taken place for the cultural school during this period. The main single measure is probably the co-location that is now taking place, which will allow the cultural school system, the cultural work at school and the cultural school to be more able to work together — thereby increasing opportunities for cultural life and schools to cooperate as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8928	The positive thing today is that we've heard the Council of State talk more about the cultural schools than we've heard him talk about the cultural schools in the last four years. But I also believe that the answers to the Council of State are quite revealing. First of all, the figures: I assume that the Council of State is preparing when he comes to such a debate. It is clear in the committee setting, there are numbers from the GSI on how many students – the historical development – have gone to cultural school. I believe that today's answers show first and foremost a government council that denies responsibility. There is no one in this room who has taken responsibility for the cultural school from the municipalities. They do a good job, but they also have frameworks to deal with. But as it is within school — in higher education, in higher education — we make national demands to ensure that all students have equal opportunities. In the answers today, we have heard a lot about what the Council of State does not want to do. So I want to ask the Council of State: what will the Council of State do to improve the development of cultural schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8935	Now, what the majority of people are asking for is a big message about the cultural schools – first an investigation where the situation and development are being surveyed in the same way as is now done for the SFO. As far as I can read the comments, it's also the way that the majority of the committee says that they want the municipalities to decide how much resources they spend on this offer, and how they design it. In other words, it is not automatic in that because you get a down payment message, you want more government demands, bonds, or regulations. That's how I read the majority of the committee. So I mean in general that it's a goal that we should connect culture school and school closer together. I do not believe that we need – nor have we proposed this period – new, large national initiatives, national bets or national directives in the field of cultural education. It is simply a political choice, because we believe that the municipalities are doing well today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8942	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8960	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8969	School is one of the most important institutions in society. The community mission is broad. The school will equip children and young people to master their own lives in an increasingly complex society. But the school should also provide children and young people so that they can contribute and benefit others in the community around them. Setting up the Ludwigsen Committee was probably some of the most important Kristin Halvorsen, the Council of State in the previous ageing period, did. Perhaps the most important notification of this committee has been notified. St. 28 for 2015–2016, Subject – Deeping – Understanding, where a review of the subjects at school was announced in the light of the report of the Ludvigsen Committee, with a view to providing students with more depth learning and understanding. All the syllabus shall be reviewed and the general syllabus shall be renewed. This is the broad consensus. But there's a distinction between Stortinget and how trust is experienced in school. The right-wing party believes that the proposers will open their doors in promoting this proposal. With all due respect, I find such a formulation a little arrogant. One thing is that the politicians in these parties point out that they have great confidence in the school, but that doesn't mean that the school staff feel that as politicians we give them enough trust. Last night I took part in a panel debate on school, where the teachers in the hall challenged us to gain enough trust from us. A lot is good at school, but we're not in the goal, so you can get the impression when you read what the government parties write in their comments. If we have ambitions to further develop the school, we must return to the professional teacher role and not build control and mistrust, but develop a quality assessment system that promotes students' learning, based on trust, and increases the professional space for action. Together with the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the Workers' Party believes that a trust reform must be introduced in school and that the national quality assessment system must be changed, not least based on a broad knowledge view. The Labour Party does not feel that this has been sufficiently preserved – when this is commented on in this proposal – by the Government. Instead, the government prioritises further developing a quality assessment system that further reinforces qualitative target management based on control and ranking. Teachers should be given more time for students and less time on forms. That is what we want. We want more confidence and less measurement, and control must be created by listening to the students and the teachers. Therefore, trust reform must be developed in close cooperation with the profession, take care of the school's broad knowledge and have students' learning at the centre, and we must eliminate time thieves in school. Finally, I would like to make some comments relating to the general part of the curriculum work, which I believe is very important. The new proposal for a general part is now being consulted. The general part of the curriculum provides the basis for the culture and values on which the school is to be based, both in primary and secondary education. Since the general part is of primary importance for training, it is important that it is well anchored in all those working in and around school, and that everyone in school feels a special ownership of this part of the curriculum, even across political dividing lines. That is why, in my opinion, it would be right to anchor the curriculum work in Stortinget. It would be an appropriate opportunity now to get the Council of State's view of the general part and hear if there are plans from his side to get the matter to Stortinget, so that all the parties are involved in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8988	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8993	Yeah, that's right. I am promoting the proposal that we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e8998	The representative of Marianne Aasen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9003	I am a little surprised to hear the rapporteur's description of the trust in Norwegian school. I have traveled around Norway a good deal and have worked closely against the school myself, and I feel that there is a great deal of trust and professional and educational freedom in Norwegian school. That's what the teachers experience, it's what the leaders experience. I believe that many years of development have led us in a good and constructive way into a good professional and educational development trail. I also believe that before the new curricula have come into place, we have seen that there is no doubt that there has been a great deal of educational freedom. Some have in fact problemed that there may have been a little too much freedom in relation to the educational tools to be used, the degree to which they are research-based and how to achieve the best possible framework for good teaching. Local school owners and school leaders therefore undoubtedly have a considerable professional space for action. We're going to increase this. Education in Norwegian school is characterised by a wide range of knowledge. What we also see is anchored in a new, general part of the curriculum, which is at the hearing, is how we now get a clarification of this, and how it should be expressed in particular training. The quality assessment system plays a major role in quality work at school. The system shall contribute to providing a good basis for the teacher’s professional judgements in the meeting with the students. It shall also provide information on how the education system achieves the training objectives. It has great self-esteem, both for parents and for local and, not least, national authorities, who are given information about the results of the school, but also about what is of professional importance, since the free exercise of the professional space can thus be constantly under development in order to ensure the best possible school. This space of action will further increase with the decentralised model of competence proposed by the government in the keynote we have just addressed. Since the representative proposal emphasises the need for increased trust, I think it is appropriate to point out that the Ministry of Knowledge is offering a broad and inclusive consultation and process for the renewal of the profession, in close cooperation with the central actors in the school. This shall contribute precisely to the legitimacy and trust of the process which also provides the broad scope of the objectives. It is also important to stress that good efforts have been made to reduce red tape and time thieves in Norwegian school. As early as 2014 – as we have been to the past here today – the Ministry of Knowledge, in cooperation with the KS, carried out the joint project to reduce the scope of documentation and reporting at all levels of school. The recommendation has mainly been followed up by simplifying reporting to GSI, reducing the number of written en-route assessments and converting mandatory Vg1 screening tests into voluntary learning-support tests. The dossier requirements for joint national supervision have also been simplified. Here it is also important to follow up locally, so that you do not help further to counteract the simplification that the government has set up. It is, as I said, a broad vision of knowledge in Norwegian school. Nevertheless, I am a little surprised that there are more variables to be added to this reporting system, which have been more than one in the past. This will not lead to less bureaucracy – at least I have not heard what variables are not on the table today and should have been included. As a result, it seems unclear to me that this will not lead to more paper moving in Norwegian school. In summary, with this backlash, there should therefore be little doubt that the government and the civil parties have created a majority over the past few years have further contributed to increased confidence – by reducing detail management, creating a clear framework for a broad knowledge view and thereby providing teachers, schools and school owners with a sound and trust-based framework, which is open and transparent at the same time and which contributes to the necessary debate and development that ensures mutual trust. This is necessary if we are to be able to develop a better school together, for the benefit of the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9024	I must also say that I am surprised at the description of the case rapporteur that the teachers feel that they have a lack of trust, I do not know that at all. When I visit different schools and meet teachers in the classroom, they show a burning commitment. They are also very clear that they are leaders in the classroom, they use different methods in their teaching – they are very clear that they are free to do so – and they vary the way they teach, whichever is the best for the students. The Progress Party believes that the Norwegian education system is characterised by a great deal of trust in teachers and school leaders. National education authorities, through the curriculum, set objectives for the learning of students, and each school itself determines how they will achieve these objectives. Local school owners and school leaders have a considerable professional space for action. We therefore believe that the proposers – I dare say so – open doors when it is claimed that Norwegian school needs a trust reform, and would point out that the ongoing work on simplifying curricula is one of several examples supporting this. As far as the quality assessment system is concerned, it is of great importance for quality work at school. The system shall contribute to providing a good basis for the professional judgements of the teachers in the meeting with the students. It shall also provide information on how the education system achieves the training objectives. For the Progress Party, it is of great value that parents, local and national authorities are informed about the results of the school. We therefore believe it is important to have transparency about the results at school. Today’s national tests are recognised as a good tool for measuring the development of each individual student and are essential for the teacher and school owner to measure progress and quality. It is also a very useful and objective tool to measure the objectives of competence achieved and to ensure that proper educational tools are put in place so that the students achieve the necessary progress in the subject. It is in our common interest to remove bureaucracy and time thieves in school. It is also very important for the Progress Party and the Government. This is demonstrated not least by the cooperation of the KS and the Ministry of Knowledge on a joint project to reduce the scope of documentation and reporting at all levels of school. The recommendations of this project have been largely followed up by the government, but we in the Progress Party are concerned that this work must continue. Here, too, Stortinget has a great responsibility not to impose even more reporting on the school if it is not in the best interests of the students – and in the event that something more needs to be done, something needs to be done. The same applies to counties and municipalities, and I allow myself to remember that these also have a responsibility to review them. In line with government regulations and reporting requirements, local school authorities are also responsible for reviewing their practices to see if there is anything they can reduce, such as: the best possible use of the common time for teachers. The progress party trusts the Norwegian school and our teachers and therefore does not see the need to adopt something that we believe they already have. That we have confidence in the teaching and the school, I think it is well demonstrated through the policy of the government in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9041	SV has promoted a proposal for a trust reform in school, and I believe that there is a need for a trust reform in school. Then we can discuss back and forth whether the school today is influenced by trust or not. It might also depend on who you ask – whether you ask politicians, or whether you ask teachers. If we remember the summer of 2014, when the teachers were on a strike that lasted almost 80 days, I don't think «trust» is the word that strikes me most naturally to use about that situation. Of course, I will not make the Council of State or the Government responsible for a conflict between the KS and the Education Association three years ago. But I think that the frustration we saw among the teachers that summer was about much more than what was on the negotiating table in the negotiations right then. It was a fundamental experience of a lack of trust between politicians and teachers. I think we need a school policy where, as school politicians, we play along with the teachers. We need a school policy where we have confidence in the teachers as professional professionals, and where we provide an increased professional room for action for the teachers. But this has already been said by Stortinget. We have already given this clear signal to the government, and we have already given guidance on how the curriculum should be renewed to meet these intentions. I therefore believe that it is not necessary to adopt this now, but I support the intention of the proposal, and I take it for granted that the government and the Council of State follow up the leaders that the Stortinget has previously given.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9052	Trust reform – I am not enthusiastic about the word ‘reform’ in this context. In the last few years, there has also been inflation in reforms in schools, and each state council has needed to show itself to be a driving force. The answer has been like a reform. Changes are well and good, but not when they go at the expense of those who work at school. That's why the teachers' trust in national authorities is also sluggish, whether the representative Gudmundsen and Thorsen believe that trust is on top. When I am opposed to the word ‘reform’, it is because I think it is somewhat contradictory to talk about a reform in this context. That being said, the Senterpartiet and SV have the same errand in this case. When we discussed the proposal on the Teacher Lift 2.0 last week, I used most of my post to talk about the lack of trust in the teachers like this government has shown these four years. The centre party has been concerned about this issue for a long time. Therefore, trust in the school, the teachers and the students was what I talked about in my speech post in the fall. The confidence of teachers, the confidence that they can use their pedagogical judgement for the best for each individual student, is, of course, the whole basic plan of the Central Party's policy against the target management regime and all the counter edges of the so-called quality framework. The teachers’ feeling of lack of confidence in national school authorities has grown over many years, but has increased under the blue government. Measures during this ageing period underpin this. The separation of teachers with basic training date stamped before 1 January 2014 is one example. Also to the teachers the government shows distrust by introducing a requirement on the grade 4 in mathematics to study for teachers. Does not the government believe that the students are able to acquire sufficient knowledge through teacher training? In this case, this is also a distrust of teacher training institutions. Character requirements are introduced by the government's government if they know that there are places available for study and that there are not enough high school students who have the grade 4 in mathematics and will apply for the teacher's study. So we get fewer teachers graduate in a few years. The mistletoe from the government also affects students and parents who are not shown confidence in printing self-declaration in case of illness. The centre party believes that the absence limit was too rigid, and now it is discussed whether there are schools or teachers who are too kind and who are more concerned with getting students unloaded through the education than being rigid at the 10 pst. requirement. I'm glad, and that's exactly what the Central Party wanted through our representative proposal, that it should be used more understandingly. Not least, the basic mistrust of school owners, school leaders, teachers and students is in the comprehensive quality system, whether the representative of Thorsen believes they have good confidence. Teachers in both Denmark, Sweden, Estonia, England and the United States struggle for their right to pursue their profession on the basis of their professional judgement. More and more people distance themselves from the test regimen built up in the wake of the international tests. I would like to make it clear that the Center Party will not in any way bring all the tests and tests to life. But we believe that we must be more critical, and we must dare to get a review in order to reduce the sum and the device. Today's system is a distrust of an entire profession. The government doesn't trust the teachers to do the job they're assigned to – make kids useful to people. The school’s mandate is wider than simply achieving better results in Norwegian, math and English. The centre party will warn against the current policy, where we push the students into an increasingly narrower area in an academic direction – an academic flow, as they say in Denmark. Then we can't figure out why so many drop out of high school. It is largely due to lack of basic skills, but it is also paradoxical that the motivation is the worst when the students leave the tenth grade. I want to draw out two things in the end. It's the Dovre model, and it's Hadeland High School. Both of them do it very well. The Dovre model, as everyone here knows, is introduced with, among other things, two-teacher systems. They're doing good. They have shown that the students who have attended that school are also doing better in higher education. Hadeland high school also does very well in the placement of apprentices. Common to them is ‘close to the student’ or ‘close to the people’, which are otherwise the slogan of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9071	Does the representative wish to address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9077	I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9082	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9087	SV has promoted a Document 8 proposal that they call a trust reform in school. Then you can discuss whether there is trust in school today, or whether there is a lack of it, and then we can discuss: What should such a trust reform include? How do we define the challenge at school today, and what do we think should be the measures that might solve this challenge? What's the Left want of the school? What matters to us is that all children and young people acquire knowledge. It is important for us that all children and young people have the opportunity to develop their abilities and interests. It is important for us that the school works socially mobilizing, so that young people can live out their dreams and create the life for themselves that they want. Then it's important to us that through school we can help move the world and society further and forward. In order to achieve this, we in the Left have promoted our own Document 8, the Teacher's Lift 2.0, which we have just discussed here in the Stortinget, where we outline some of the measures we think we need to develop the school further in the direction we want. There we propose, among other things: reducing red tape by 25 pst. We have already decided here that we are now introducing a five-year teacher training. We suggest that we continue to invest in continuing and continuing training in a wider range of subjects. We want to facilitate career paths in schools and classrooms, so that the good teachers stay in teaching and do not have to enter administrative positions to get a career development. We have been clear that when we make new demands for teachers, it must also be reflected in the pay level. That is why we have set up a paylift. These are some of the measures we've been promoting because we think it's part of creating the school that we want. Many of the actions we have promoted are about strengthening the teacher and the teacher's position. We think it's better to make sure that we have good and competent teachers in school, that it's better to create systems for good teacher training, for systematic further and further training and for a career path than all the way to testing quality in retrospect. We're concerned that we still need national tests, because we need to know that the school is on its way. At the same time, we are concerned that the teacher as the professional partner of the school must have the authority and the ability to choose the teaching methods that are the right ones for the student groups in the subjects in which he teaches. We believe that strengthening the teacher's position is the most important thing we can do to achieve the school we want. We don't do that for school, we do that for students.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9100	I think the discussion of this proposal for a representative has revealed clearer lines of division than I had thought, in the matter of trust in school. On the one hand, government parties, which minimize the issue, talk about opening doors and fail to see that there is any trust problem, or that teachers express frustration over the lack of trust. On the other hand, you have the red-green parts and the center parts, which are very clearly saying that this is a problem that the teachers are telling you about, and that we politicians have to meet. I think it's strange that we can get a position where the Right Party and the Advance Party write about opening doors, after a growing period in which we've had the biggest conflict in school in many years through the big teacher strike in 2014, which was just about these things, and for which I think the representative Tyvand well described the reasons. Meetings after meetings with teacher organisations and teachers around the country have called for greater professional freedom and trust in a repetition. This just underlines what we have said many times, that the Right Party and the Advance Party are characterized by not listening to the teachers. It is a systematic and continuous side of the Right and Advance Party's knowledge policy that they ignore the advice of the teachers and do not listen to what the teachers think is important and right for the school. Research reports and feedback from students and teachers have demonstrated that the Knowledge promise has led to a more theoretical school and a more unified education. The aim of a trust reform in schools at both state and municipal level must be to provide more time for the most important things in the school, namely the meeting between the teacher and the student, at the expense of unnecessary control, target management, testing and ranking. Similarly, trust reform must aim to contribute to less standardisation of teaching and follow-up of students in Norwegian school. School researchers point in a number of contexts, including: in the evaluation of the Knowledge promise, in the work of the Ludvigsen Committee on the future school and in the working group entrusted with the role of teachers by the government, that target management contributes in various ways to everything from unnecessary standardisation and alignment to a performance pressure that could compromise the health of students and lead to a lack of satisfactory benefit for some students from the regular training offer. If we're going to develop a school where all students experience mastery, a school where education takes on a broad knowledge view, it's to strengthen the professional teacher's role. Then we have to listen to the teachers when they say that their professional authority is not sufficiently taken into account, and that the professional teacher's role is on the wane of a comprehensive control, target management and testing regime. We need to facilitate open and trusting processes in order to create trust reforms. That is why our proposal is not a detailed proposal, but a proposal to start a process. So it is pointed out here, and it is quite right that the Stortinget has already said that they want a reform of trust in the school. A majority said so in a comment in the context of the review of the Notice. St. 28 for 2015–2016, Facts – Depression – Understanding – Renewal of the Knowledge Promise. The problem is that since October it is not possible to find evidence that this government has followed up what Stortinget said. On the contrary, we have just dealt with Report. St. 21, on early intervention, where the government is moving in the opposite direction and introduces more target management in school. That is why I find it a little difficult to understand that the Christian People's Party and the Left, which supported the desire for trust reform in October, do not vote for the proposal today, because the government has demonstrated very clearly that they have no intention of following the will of the Great Britain on this point. So I would say at the same time that although there is a difference between SV's and the Central Party's willingness to go into concrete action on this and the Workers' Party joins today, it is a clear will from the three red-green parties to carry out a trust reform in school. It is a clear commitment, and it shows that a new majority is needed to bring about a trust reform. I think the country's teachers will notice that commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9115	The teacher conflict that was in 2014 was a crisis of confidence, there is no doubt about it. And of course, it's not like that something happened during the exact pay negotiations. It also built on and showed that the relationship between the parties, and certainly the school discussion over a longer period, had not created sufficient confidence in the school. But you can't pretend that we're still in 2014. So I would like to add a comment to what the representative Lysbakken said, for what is the most important thing that has happened since October? Well, it's that we've launched the plan for job renewal throughout the school. All courses at school are to be renewed. And what we've done for that process if it's not just professional trust, both by having had a long process – for which we've been criticized, for some, I shouldn't mention party names, has meant that we should do it faster – and an open process, which is going into every single classroom. Not only organisations, but all teachers, should be involved. Not only do professionals sit in a room and decide how the curricula should be. What if not a process based just on trust that the profession itself will be involved in developing what is the school of the future? Then there has never been anyone who has thought that we should not have educational freedom. This was the case before, because the old curricula did not build on educational freedom as a principle. The basic principle came too fully into the school curriculum with the Knowledge Promise. The L97 syllabuses were abolished, including: and guided the methods of teachers, e.g. group work directives. There is no one, at least not from the government parties, who believes that the new curricula should not be based on full freedom of method. But I believe that there is a crucial difference between that which, if you read it a little maliciously, is the proposal, or the point, from the SV and the Center Party, which says that the professional teacher has procedural responsibility and gives a large professional space for action, and what you're talking about, which is professional silence. Professional stillness is something other than the fact that the individual teacher is king in his own classroom. I don't want us to create curricula that standardise teaching methods in Norway, but of course the profession has a responsibility to keep up with research, disseminate good teaching methods, learn from each other and also to criticise each other's teaching. Fagene Norwegian, English and mathematics, it's not that important, said the representative Tingelstad Wøien. First of all, it's not these subjects that we measure in the national tests, it's reading, writing and billing. No matter how practical your profession is, you need reading, writing and billing. So you might think that you're going to turn the national samples into sample samples, but what you lose then is the possibility for the teacher, for the school, for the principal, for the local politicians to use these tests. What we do in school is just based on trust in the profession. I want to mention two tracks that we follow. The first is this with red tape. We have simplified the reporting already since the autumn of 2015. We have made changes to the legislation so that we reduce the requirements for written in-flight assessment to a minimum. Unlike previous governments, we have actually removed a compulsory test from school. It was a screening test on Vg1 that was ‘nice to know’, but not necessary to have, and then we take it away. In addition, we have reviewed all the written documentation requirements relating to national supervision. Then we've worked with KS to bring this down to the municipalities. And as I said earlier, too, except for the perfectly obvious things where we don't agree, for example. on national tests: I would like to welcome very specific measures to address several legislative changes from the Storting, time thieves that are thought to be removed. One of the suggestions we received in a report was to remove the student survey. I'm simply against that. I think it gives us important information. The second is that trust also needs to be built in a different way. We have contributed, for example: The teacher role selection that we put down. On the basis of this, the KS and the Education Association, the largest teacher organisation, have built a process that is just about how the professionals and the school owners will discuss together, understanding that they disagree, but also build processes based on trust. I am more than happy to discuss how to both red tape, build trust and build quality in school – all for which I am – but I think with respect to report that it gets a little funny if it's like everything you're against in politics is mistrust, and everything you're for is automatic trust. It is a misrepresentation of a debate that is too important for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9134	It's going to be line change. Before we go to that, the President will inform you that the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 22, it'll be over in a minute. The President therefore proposes that the Stortinget continue the meeting until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9141	My question is as follows: Does the Council of State agree with the claim that the proposers open doors when they claim that the school needs a trust reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9146	Read and understood in the right context, the commentaries from the government parties are trying to say that Norwegian school is, first of all, not based on target management in the sense that we set concrete goals for the school, reward them, draw learning into wages or something like that. Secondly, it is not that Norwegian school is based on mistrust – rather, educational freedom is the fundamental principle of how we organise our curricula, with overall competence objectives. Nor is it the case that there is any disagreement that we should debureaucratise the school and try as much as we can to eliminate unnecessary rules and regulations. As I have said several times before: if there are other concrete measures – national tests are not the Aasen representative’s party to do sample trials, curriculum renewal is itself a red tape reform, which will also create more time for teachers – come with them, we’re more than happy to assess and evaluate them as quickly as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9153	Local curriculum work is an example of something that the Labour Party thinks we should do centrally, so that's what the Council of State might comment on. What I was actually going to ask was the general part of the curriculum: what is the status, how does the Council of State view the further work? If he continues in the position he now has, will he involve Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9166	For local curriculum work: what we have said in the innovation is that one should consider having curriculum objectives at several different stages, but it is not automatic that having curriculum goals at all stages from 1 to 4, for example. will involve a reform of trust. It also involves stronger governance of municipalities and stronger links between teachers' spaces of action, although it may also free up time. So there's a balance. As far as the general part is concerned, there has been a great process, we have had consultation conferences all over the country and received many input into the text. It's now out at the hearing, and we're getting a lot of consultation proposals -- a huge commitment -- to what's now called the overall section. The plan is not to send it back to Stortinget – which I also announced in Message. Paragraph 28 for 2015-2016, follow-up to the Ludvigsen Committee. Had I had more time, I could well elaborate on that process, but then the representative of Aasen has to assess whether she has more questions again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9176	Then I wonder if Councillor Røe Isaksen can elaborate further on the general part.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9181	I thank the representative of Aasen for that question. There's also a balance sheet, because we're adding up to a process as open, comprehensive and thorough as possible, simply because this is a document that's going to last over time. The type of consultation processes and open processes is that of the department that may have. I'm not sure this is a document that should go back to Stortinget in the sense that Stortinget should sit and write the text and edit the text. I think, quite frankly, that if the Stortinget wishes to do so on a later occasion, one has every opportunity to ask for it, but I believe that the process we now have – which is so open and so wide and involves all relevant actors, with a lot of hearing conferences around the country and hundreds of hearings – will take care of just the width, the lashing, the valuelift, everything that the Stortinget has been busy about when they have described the overall part.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9190	I choose to ask a question instead of taking the floor in the debate, but I have to be allowed to say that the centre party is concerned that Norwegian, math and English are important – so that there is no contradiction in the hall. What we're worried about is that we're going to get such a strong focus on performing in these subjects that we're practicing for the rehearsals – that opportunity has also been rewritten by the government in the big news of learning, which we've just discussed. We also believe it is wrong that the municipalities now mainly send teachers to continue their training in these subjects. That's why we talk so much about this, just to be aware that we have to send also those who are going to teach in other subjects, in continuing education. I would like to ask the Council of State: Is not the Council of State concerned at all that we can get a division in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9199	Well, I'm very concerned about it, and very much of what the representative describes and addresses in terms of the practical-esthetic subjects, their position and the importance of strengthening them, I fully agree. It is also very good that this year there are many others who have received further training in practical-esthetic subjects – very good, very desired. What I think is the problem with the reasoning, is that the representative consistently also talks down the meaning of reading, writing and billing. You have to remember that if you, for example, has a 2 in mathematics, is the chance to complete high school, whether you're taking a professional or a preparatory, much lower than if you have a 3 or a 4, so this isn't just because the Norwegian economy is going well, that mathematics is so important, etc., this is also extremely important for the individual student. I often think that the representative – at least seemingly – underestimates that in his comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9206	Then I think I'm going to help clarify a misunderstanding, because I think we have a slightly different perception of how students learn. I think that's where the whole misunderstanding lies. I agree with the council that it might be complicated to get through school if one has a 2 in mathematics, but how we get there, I think we're looking very differently. I guess I didn't really have a question right now, I just had to say it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9215	Does the Council of State Røe Isaksen need to say anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9220	Yeah, you gotta fill it out. Now it's irrelevant how we, as big-time politicians, think that students are learning the best, because we're not experts at that. It's the teachers who're experts. They almost have five years of education to be experts on just that. For me, it's really irrelevant how the individual teacher puts up his teaching, but that's exactly why I'm concerned about what comes out of it. It is therefore such quality measurements – e.g. national tests — important, because it gives us a chance to say what is actually coming out of what is happening at school. That's why I'm very concerned that we should not control how the teachers teach. We're not going to have detailed goals of how teachers put up their teaching – yes, actually, we're not going to have a goal for it at all at national level – but we're going to have expectations of what students are going to learn. Then it is important that we also have a system that is predictable, transparent and not more bureaucratic than it needs to be in order to implement, which gives us good information about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9229	The President will note, at this time of the day, that there are four things left on the agenda, and there is no need to say anything just to fill the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9234	I can assure you that I have a question at the end of what I am going to say, and that is just as follows: In connection with Report. St. 28 for 2015–2016, Fag – Deeping – Understanding, and the treatment of it in the Stortinget in October 2016, the Council of State received a very clear order from Stortinget, namely that a trust reform was to be developed in the school in cooperation with the sector. Now is the time of the Council of State as the Council of State immediately out. The size disintegrates in a short time, and that's choice. But we haven't seen any trust reform. Why has the Council of State not followed up the clear order of a majority in the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9243	I believe that the order from Stortinget should not be read as a big message called ‘Trust Reform in Norwegian School’. As we have heard in this debate and repeated in other debates, there is also a great deal of disagreement about what such a trust reform entails. I see it as a very clear order, but also an emphasis from Stortinget that when we have processes in school, it should be based on professional involvement, that the teachers should be heard as a profession, and that we should not build unnecessary regulations or govern the teachers' professional judgement. The big issue we have been dealing with is the renewal, where all this has been carried out, and that was also in the context of this remark. I have not seen it as an order for a big message about a trust reform, nor did I perceive that the bulk of the population did so. I mean, this is something that is being signed out all the time, and that we're also going to keep working on, for example. on the red tape side.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9250	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 27.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9268	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9277	As you know and as rapporteur, I should like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. But it has become so that this is actually the last matter that the committee is going to deal with in the big room in this big session, so there is really reason to thank, unless you go completely amok in this debate, for good cooperation for four years. That's what they say. I will first refer to document 8:132 on special education, promoted by SV. The proposers raise an important issue, which is very closely linked to the discussion we had in a previous case today, namely Report. St. 21, on both early work and the right for students to receive special education if they need it. I see that there is a cross-political consensus on that. I am sure that both the proposers and other parties will explain well their comments and positions on this matter, so I will talk on behalf of the Right about how we have placed ourselves. First, it is that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the position indicate that the government has already reduced a sample, led by professor of pedagogy, Thomas Nordahl, who has been commissioned to go through special education in Norwegian school, how this works, and not least to see this in context. That is why the Right and Advance Party also show that we want to deal with such an important topic after the setting from this selection has come. Even if we say this, the Committee unanimously asks the government to ensure that all schools have access to specialised education teachers and that this is done in consultation with the sector. It is only right and reasonable to establish now, even if a sample comes, that students who need special education should have access to this. In particular, it is important that this be done in consultation with the sector — and not only teachers’ organisations and educational staff, but also the municipalities as school owners — how best to use those resources. Furthermore, the Right Party and the Advance Party have made a proposal that the government should submit a plan to enable all pupils in need of special education to receive this from professionals with pedagogical or special pedagogical competence. This proposal is in actual fact opposed to another majority proposal, which seeks to ensure that the government ensures that all pupils who need special education are entitled to training for professionals with relevant and recognised training. These are two proposals which, to a certain extent, seem to be quite similar, and to that extent they are also quite similar. But there are two main reasons why we're proposing what we're doing from the Right and the Advance Party. One is that we want a plan, because we think it is important that the Storting should be presented with what the consequences of the decisions we make in that case, and how this can be done in a practical way. Not least, we need to know what the cost of such a proposal will be. The second is that as parties, we want to clarify what professionals with relevant education are for the Right and the Advance Party. For us, this is just about the fact that there should be professionals with pedagogical or special pedagogical competence. It's really the big conflict case with the eyes of the Right Party and the Progressive Party. This is a proposal with many good measures, but we want to see this in the context of a reduced sample. With that, I take up the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9290	The representative of Henrik Asheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9295	Thank you to SV for a good document 8 proposal, and not least thank you to the rapporteur, who has worked well through the Committee. Special education is in many ways the safety network at school. It is the extra and important effort to help everyone get an equivalent training offer. But special education isn't really very special, because it's quite common. A whole of 50,000 students get special education every year, because they need it, because it's going to give them better benefits from school, because they're going to be included, and because everyone's going to have equal opportunities. Large resources, both human and economic, are used for special education in Norway. Nevertheless, we know that there are many people who do not get the training they require, and the quality of the training varies. This is underlined by the Children’s Ombudsman, after their thorough work and monitoring of special education in 2016. The starting point for the survey was to find out if the students were given the training they needed. The report after the screening has been named ‘No Goals and Meanings?’ It says a lot. This does not mean that all special education is poor around the country, but unfortunately it is too many examples that things can be done better. There have been large-scale messages and expert groups on these issues several times. Now the government has set up another group of experts. That's good in itself. This is an important area in the school that is constantly developing. At the same time, we already know a lot. We already know something about what needs to be done. I would therefore like to thank SV, who is promoting these proposals – proposals that could help more students get more out of training and that everyone has equal opportunities. It is about strengthening the law in order to improve and ensure children's rights to special educational follow-up and to strengthen the special educational competence of schools and municipalities. It is a matter of providing pupils with the right to special education with training for persons with approved and relevant training, a complete upgrading of the PP service, a mandatory level of special pedagogical subjects in teacher training, and additional training for teachers in special education. Most of the proposals are about competence. That's also where the need is greater to do something. It has been suggested in the last year that about half of all special education is conducted without qualified personnel. It's serious. Measures to improve this situation are urgently needed. A beginning could be to strengthen the teaching of pedagogics in teacher education, not the opposite, as the government does. I will conclude with a quote from the Children's Ombudsman: ‘Good special education is absolutely necessary. It ensures that students who need special education reach their full potential — that they learn, thrive, develop self-confidence and faith in themselves, and it gives them the opportunity to reach their dreams in the future.’ That's as true as I've been told. That is why the Workers' Party is in conjunction with SV in several of the proposals in the document. I have some time left, so in conclusion, I would like to thank the Committee for an excellent cooperation over the four years that have passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9317	Would the representative like to comment on the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9322	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9327	It is not of course – it has to be mentioned! The representative of Christian Thinning Bjørnø has mentioned this, and the proposal has been duly addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9332	I would also like to thank the proposers for an important and good document. I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough explanation of the matter and for his thorough argument as to why the government parties voted as we do in the case. What I want to say is that there is a lot of resources in special education in Norwegian school, but we see that many students are getting help too late in training, and that there is a lack of assistance. This is a development that needs to be reversed, so that students have the opportunity to experience mastering at school. It is important that all children meet with high expectations, and that kindergartens and schools are inclusive arenas. The Progress Party will refer here to good cooperation with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left in several matters where we have been together to do something about special school education, and to the mention of the measures taken during the period, which are reflected in the Council's response letter to the Committee. I would also like to stress that the Progress Party believes that there is a need to do far more to strengthen and ensure that students who need special education receive this. It is therefore positive that the government, with the state council at the head, is working on several measures that, individually and collectively, will contribute to a better schooling day for all, in an inclusive school. The challenges are multifaceted, and we just have to assume that it will take time to implement and incorporate the necessary measures into schools and kindergartens. These are challenges such as: Depends on the existence of sufficient staff with pedagogical and special pedagogical skills, and we can't just pick them from the trees. It takes time to educate people and get enough people. Therefore, the Party considers that it is important to proceed in depth and on a planned basis, so that the action taken will have the intended effect. This is the background for us to vote as we do, and we believe that this is well taken care of in the proposal that has been put forward in the matter. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for its good cooperation over these four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9345	We all agree that those students who need special education will get it. Then we would probably be clear enough to reduce the need for special education something if we were willing to bet on enough teachers in ordinary education, so that as many students as possible could learn what they need, there. We also all agree that it is a problem that not everyone gets the extra help and follow-up they need, today, and we all agree that this can have great, unfortunate consequences for these students and their opportunities for further learning. So it's good that the government has set up an expert committee, led by Professor Thomas Nordahl, who will look into how we can provide a better offer for children and young people who need special arrangements. I look forward to hearing the sample recommendations next year, but it is still quite possible to take some grip already now. It is therefore good that a joint committee asks the government, in consultation with the sector, to ensure that all schools have access to teachers with special education. It is therefore great that there is a majority in favour of the government ensuring that all pupils who need special education are entitled to training for professionals with recognised relevant education. And that's why it's great that the government parties, although they say they want to await the recommendations of the committee of experts, promote a proposal to ask the government to submit a plan for all students with special education needs to be trained by professionals with pedagogical or special pedagogical skills. I do not consider the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party to be in any way in conflict with the proposals that are now under decision, and I will therefore report that the Christian People's Party will support this proposal. Then the rapporteur said that this is the last debate for this committee during this big time period, and that is why I also want to thank you for a good and pleasant cooperation over four years. And since both the government parties and the red-green parties have been so concerned – in all settings and in all debates – to highlight how good the red-green government was, how good the government of the day is, I want to say, at the very last minute of the period, that I think the Korvald government did very much well, and that it also concerns the Bondevik governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9358	I am not going to contribute to extending the debate in particular, because it was said that not everyone should take the floor, but we have done that for good. It might have a little bit of an impact on the fact that this is the last debate. I don't need to say so much, as there is a very large consensus about the situation that is described, and about the setting itself. The most important thing, I think, is that we make sure that those who need special education receive it from specialists, and that special education must be part of continuing education. I also want to draw out, as I did earlier today, the Dovre model. I think it is important both for the government that is now sitting, and for any new government – whether it becomes blue, green, yellow or what it is now – to notice what has happened there with regard to using more teachers and that they both get better implementation in high school and less apostasy. Not least, they have greatly reduced the need for special educational means, from 11 to 12 pst. and down to 4 pst. It's also a good economy. Once again, I have to add a little visit to the Council of State, which said that as politicians we should not be concerned about how children learn: we should not be able to, because it is the teachers who should. I'm very, very disagreed. It is very important that we, as politicians, are aware of how kids learn. We need to be aware of this if we are to facilitate good special education. We are the ones who are going to make laws and regulations and make it easier for all kids to learn. We're going to give goals and measure, but we have to do it knowing whether we're creating systems that prevent the achievement of the goal we want. That's why it's important for us politicians, including the next one to sit on the Education Committee, to get to know how students learn. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation. We've had a lot of fun, sail if we're thundering disagreements and quarrels, so busta stuffs here in the hall. There's probably no one who thinks we're having quite fun outside the hall. I also want to thank the Council of State, which has had to defend government policy for four years – that is one thing – but has also endured with us in the opposition in the storms here these four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9372	In the Committee's comments, we refer to the Children's Ombudsman's Report 'Without objectives and meaning?'. That report makes it quite clear that special education is too few places. There is too much storage and activation and too little learning, and as the Council of State itself was involved in a reply earlier today, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that there are too few expectations for those students who receive special education. This means that children and young people will not be able to exploit their potential. They can't go as far as they could and could've gone. In the case of special education given around the whole country, it is that many who receive special education do not receive it from competent teachers. There are a lot of assistants, there are different backgrounds for those who are going to do that part of the teaching. We think that's just not good enough, because it's the way special education works, but here, as with all other teaching, it has something to say about what kind of teacher you have, and that teacher has a background that makes him or she competent to carry out the tasks he is assigned to. It's a paradox that we use a lot of special skills to figure out, investigate and figure out what the problem is, what's wrong, what's wrong -- all those things. That's where we put our best people. But when it comes to actually teaching, it's kind of random who the students end up with, whether it's a person who actually has the competence to provide special education. We don't want to have it like that. We want all education to be given by educators and people with the right skills, including special education, because we want all kids to reach as far as they can, and all kids to take advantage of the potential they have. Early efforts have been discussed by many. It's important. In many cases, with early efforts, we can avoid extensive special education later on. We agree where we want to go, but it's sometimes a little hard to get there. I also think it is good that there is a sample set down, as Professor Thomas Nordahl leads. I think it's absolutely necessary to look at it carefully. I'm looking forward to getting the report, and we can take the discussion from there. I understand this way in the Christian People's Party that they want to vote in favour of proposal No. 2, from the Right and Advance Party. I have intended, in principle, that proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Advance Party, is somewhat opposed to the proposal for Decision IV, but if the vote is put to the vote in such a way that it is possible to vote in favour of both parties, there is no reason why the Left should not be able to vote in favour of the proposal by the Right and the Advance Party. Finally, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee and the Council of State for their good cooperation. It's like the representative Tingelstad Wøien said: we've had a lot of fun in the four years that have gone by. We've had the honour and privilege of sitting on the education committee. Now I haven't been on any other committees, but I'm pretty sure it's the hottest committee to sit on. I'm also quite sure that it's one of the most important committees to sit in, because what we're doing is infinitely important for the individual concerned, but also for society. Because as we in the left say, everything starts at school. And we've been allowed to make arrangements for the last four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9389	I would like to thank Stortinget for accepting the representative proposal that SV has made. More recent research, the Children’s Ombudsman’s technical report ‘No Objective and Meaning?’ and Statped’s report ‘Near-school principle and inclusion of children with special training needs in primary school’ confirm that Norwegian schools are not able to provide an equivalent training offer to all pupils and that both the scale and quality of the offer vary widely. If all students are to receive the training they need and require, special educational skills must be increased in schools and in municipalities. Regular training needs to be strengthened in order to adapt far more closely to the different needs of students and to assess the types of special educational measures that can support an inclusive learning environment. The situation now appears to be that lack of special education is not compensated for by additional measures in regular training. There must be an assessment of the best way to support the learner’s learning process, which must lead to the type of action chosen and not a quantitative measure of reduced special education. In the same way, it must be an objective that ordinary teaching can be organised in such a way that pupils who are not currently receiving a satisfactory benefit from the teaching can receive the training they need within the framework of the community. Then we're back to the question of increasing teacher density, which we mean, in combination with special pedagogical competence, can strengthen the school's ability to maintain an inclusive learning environment. It may also counteract an unfortunate practice in which the pursuit of diagnostics, endless investigations and the proportion of individual decisions on special education determine the type of resources available to the school. We have seen that the Minister of Knowledge repeatedly refers to research results in proving that teaching density does not affect students' learning. There may be a point to point out that research is quite consistent with the fact that increasing teacher density is important for students with special needs. In addition, the scheme for increasing teacher density in upper secondary schools showed that primary school credits increased and special education was reduced in the schools covered by the scheme. It also underlines that winding up the plan was a wrong decision. Special educational competence in school is important in order to provide adapted training for all pupils, not just students with different types of disabilities or specific learning difficulties. This type of competence can also help to identify the learning challenges of students at the earliest possible stage and is therefore important for what we have talked about earlier this evening, early efforts. During the red-green government in 2011, the big message on learning and community was promoted. It was the first large, comprehensive notification of the special educational training provision in kindergarten and school of 20 years and resulted in a major reorganisation of the state special educational support device. There has been an important contribution to strengthening the provision of services to students in need of Statped services. The follow-up to the other recommendations of the sample has come gradually, but some challenges remain. The expert committee's report, as well as recent research, provides a very good knowledge base for doing something about this. Therefore, SV believes that more measures can be taken quickly; more measures need not be delayed for the government to address the need further, or postponed to follow-up after the Nordahl Committee has completed its work. That is why it is very gratifying that there is a majority in the motion for a resolution for an important proposal from our representative. Then I will refer to the post of the representative Asheim. It is true that the proposal by the Right and the Progressive Party on a plan was originally promoted as an alternative proposal for our proposal. But I can't see, as it's now formulated, that there's really some contradiction. I think the two proposals might as well complement each other. A plan is good. I would therefore like to inform you that the SV will vote in favour of that proposal. We must maintain and strengthen an inclusive common school. Schools must then have special pedagogical skills. They need to be given increased resources in order to be able to follow up all students and adapt their needs. That is a fine sentence for my contribution to the Committee's last debate. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Co-operation Committee – and also the Council of State, although I would like to wait a little while to thank him, because we have some fresh duels left, I think, in the election campaign. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9419	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9425	In Norway, we have had a clear inclusion policy for many decades, and in an inclusive school, many competences are needed, in the fields of education, education, general education and special education. We just need teachers and schools with good toolboxes. Therefore, it is also a shocking and great paradox that parts of special education do not function inclusively but segregatedly. I'll say a little about what measures are going on. It has been important for us to make the place of education visible in teacher training. I do not agree that it will be weakened. In addition, the new teacher students will have the opportunity to write a master's degree in both pedagogics and special pedagogics, and special pedagogics can also be taken in combination with teaching subjects. Today, 37 psts. of primary school students with special education, the help of the classroom. It is not possible to set a percentage, but nevertheless it is possible to say that this should most likely include more. Then it's important for teachers with special pedagogical depression that can be used even more, not only as a class teacher, but also as a kind of tutor at school. That is why, in the big-time communication that has just been debated, we proposed that all primary schools should have resources with professional immersion in special pedagogics. We also need to develop a further training course for teachers in special education. As I said earlier, it is that the Children's Ombudsman's report, the supervision of the county council members and several other reports confirm that there are still major challenges with quality, content and follow-up in the expert assessments of the PP service as well as in the school's individual decisions, and this is serious. It is true that the previous government provided a very comprehensive survey report, and a sample work on special education. The measures that have now been largely followed up, including under this government, and unfortunately, what we can see is that although there were good measures, they have not taken us where we would, and then it is in other words time to do more. The indicative quality criteria for the PP service came in 2016 and points out, among others. that the PP service in kindergarten and school must have clarified what good expert judgement is, that they should know what promotes good, secure and inclusive kindergarten and school environments. The Education Directorate is now following up how these criteria are understood. It is to a large extent, I think, practice that needs to be improved, but it can also be things on the legislative side. Two practical initiatives: the first is the expert group, led by Thomas Nordahl. They will look at what needs to be done to improve the provision of educational provision and training to all children in an inclusive school, and they will also discuss possible regulatory challenges. The second is that Statped has a model development project – it is more exciting than it sounds like – where, together with the County and local level, they will look at just how the inclusion work can be improved by working more together. I also intend to look at measures before the expert committee comes. I have asked the Children’s Ombudsman what measures they think can be implemented in the short term. The PP service and measures there may be an example of it. So it's important how Statped works, and we get an external evaluation of Statped's conversion this summer, it's coming around July. This is important, because then we also need to consider changes in Statped's profile and working methods. Altogether, all of these things, when we also put early effort on top, are going to give us a chance to improve special education. The size is now likely to adopt two measures. I agree that they are not necessarily contradictory, but that is because the understanding that both of these measures will mean that the government has to figure out how much it costs, what it will mean, what the requirements are and what the criteria are – just so you understand it – and then come back to the Stortinget with a plan. Finally, I would like to say that I like to be the State Council for Education for four years, and I have greatly appreciated the cooperation with the Committee. It's like the committee is doing a lot of fun that I'm never allowed to do, they're having fun sitting in my office with a political adviser and a couple of others. But I've really appreciated it, we've had a lot of very good discussions, and I appreciate it. Sometimes it gets high temperature, sometimes a little bit too high temperature, but we also live with it. So just quite concrete: there are three people, three ladies, in fact, that we certainly can't see here for the autumn – it's uncertain for many of us too – it's Marianne, the representative of the Aasen she is called here, whom I appreciate as a very honest and good opponent, the representative of Tingelstad Wøien, who also has great commitment, and whom I appreciate to discuss with, and the representative of Vinje, with whom I also discuss, but behind closed doors, and which I also appreciate very much. So an extra thank you to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9442	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 28.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9458	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9467	We are now examining SV's proposals to strengthen care for the elderly through quality-based recruitment standards, more choice for the elderly and a trust reform rather than target management. There are several important issues that arise, and I would therefore like to point out that the Committee in the configuration refers to the fact that all people need the freedom to make their own choices and decide on their own everyday lives. This also applies to elderly people in need of care. Those who know the most about good care for the elderly are the elderly themselves. These must therefore be allowed to participate more fully than they are today, and they must be able to give priority to what they want to help, and to what care services they need. I expect the various parties to explain their views on the matter. Otherwise, there are good comments from the different batches in the setting. The right-wing Party government, with the help of the cooperation parties, has from the day on held a high pressure on the challenges that characterise the care of the elderly. The Government Platform also agreed to establish a standard/management and quality counsellor and to introduce quality indicators for the care and care sectors, inter alia. based on user and family experience. Now we are in the process of an older reform – live our whole lives. It will ensure that all older people get the help they need to master the last part of their lives, no matter where they live. We know that the elderly and their relatives today unfortunately experience great differences in health, mastering, well-being and security in the last part of their lives. That's why it's good that something is actually going to be done about this. The reform will address four key areas in order to ensure that the elderly receive basic needs — nutrition, activity and community, health care and coherence and implementation. The promotion of competences, the training of multiple managers and greater requirements for them, the introduction of health care standards and the review of medicinal products are key words for achieving this objective. I would like to point out, in connection with the fact that the first version of the safety standard is now being rolled out and tested in four pilot municipalities – Tromsø, Eidskog, Kristiansand and Sortland – that it will be developed continuously, in cooperation with the pilot municipalities. This work will serve as a basis for the work of a staffing and quality norm/guidance guide, which is important. I would also like to point out that for the Progress Party, care for the elderly has always been very high on the agenda. We therefore believe that a standard for staffing in the health and care sector could be an important contribution to increasing the safety and sound treatment of our elderly. Such a reform could also help to reduce unwanted part-time, improve service quality and reduce sick leave, and it is important for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9480	This representative proposal from SV proposes inter alia: putting in place municipal pilot projects for a trust-based management model for the care of the elderly. It's an excellent idea that the Workers' Party supports. We have actually programmed that we want to try a trust reform in as many municipalities as possible. Trust reform is not about ‘ensuring trust’, but about concrete organisational measures combined with gradual cultural change. We can pick up our experiences, for example: from the municipality of Copenhagen. Copenhagen formally decided in 2013 to introduce a trust reform, and health and care came first. The agreement was concluded with five employee organisations on the principles of such a reform. The previous government in Denmark estimated that the savings would be about five billion through such a grip. The reform has produced results in Denmark. It has inspired politicians here, too, especially in the Red-Green parties. In 2015, Oslo City Council decided to try out a trust reform in four urban areas. Tromsø is also running a test project. Trust reform is a kind of up-down pyramid where management facilitates more responsibility for users and the first-line, based on economic autonomy within adopted budgets, surfaces structure with fewer and more involved leaders and cleaning up rules and reporting procedures. The Labour Party believes that people receiving care services should be able to decide for themselves on important parts of the services received, within defined limits. The trust reform of bureaucratises the care of the elderly and gives greater responsibilities and trust in the interaction between employees and the recipients. It must be allowed to think: what if the government had been in favour of a trust reform, instead of throwing the money out of the window through the so-called state financing of municipal care services? Very many municipalities, including civil servants, withdrew early from this attempt, because it was calculated that the municipality would lose a lot of money to participate. Only six municipalities remain. For all over-measurements, it may not be possible to measure the efficacy of the test, because the test group is too small. Researchers from Telemark Research, quoted last year in the Municipal Report, point out that there must be at least 20 municipalities to provide valid and reasonable answers. KS has stated that the experiment is considered worthless. But now, five to twelve, the government is launching an 'elders' reform, which is supposed to start listening to the municipalities, something you haven't done so far. Yes, it is also claimed that the reform should support activity, experience and nutrition – i.e. In contrast to what has shaped the government's old age policy so far. In this case, the Labour Party is promoting three proposals in line with the proposal for a representative, together with the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, and I am addressing those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9495	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9500	There are wide variations in the offer, both within municipalities and between municipalities, in the case of care for the elderly. There are inequalities and quality gaps that are not going to live with in the years to come. During this period of government, the right has therefore carried out two main actions together with the Progress Party and the Cooperation Parties: We have speeded up the development of hospital and nursing homes. Three times as many places as under the previous government are now planned. We bet $12 billion. kr in the year on enhancing competence by continuing to train and train health professionals and by focusing on basic training of more health professionals and on a new and very popular management training in the care and care sector. Increased competence improves efficiency. It shows a report from Telemark Research which clearly states that increased competence leads to dramatic improvements in efficiency. Having competent employees at work reduces a lot of duplication, reduces guidance time and increases flexibility. SV wants recruitment standards in this proposal, but in the right we have more faith in guidance crew plans. It will ensure a more dynamic manning based on patient composition, the actual situation and needs of patients, taking into account both deterioration and improvements in condition. SV also states in the proposal that they are concerned that older people themselves should have greater influence over the offer they receive. But SV practice the exact opposite in municipalities where they rule. Take Tromsø, for example.: SV, Workers' Party and Red have decided that free user choice should be completed in 2019. So you have no confidence that the individual can choose for himself. Option is to be able to choose who will come home to you, who will shower you on your own bath, who will lubricate your food on your own kitchen bench, and who will help you to sleep in your own bedroom. The debate in Tromsø has continued to break and rage. Many are puzzled that those who rule the municipality are riddled with principles. One need not be afraid that the private care provider is a large international company in Tromsø. No, it's not. Private Care Nord in Tromsø is created by Trude Wester, the woman and the nurse have «founded» their own business because she has a busy face and a keen desire to create good services for the users. And the users in Tromsø are satisfied. The employees are probably also at work, because at Trude Wester the sick leave is 1 pst. By comparison, sick leave in the municipality is 13 pst. On 29 May this year, Stavanger Aftenblad told us about a demen spacer who had had 30 different helpers within a month. Lack of trust in home-based services is often much about the fact that there are still unknown people coming to provide health care. The right considers that home-based services, whether provided by the municipality or by a private supplier, should be better organised, in smaller teams around each patient, in the future. It will create more trust – trust between patients and employees – and it will secure patients and relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9522	The Christian People's Party wants Norway to be marked by respect for human dignity, regardless of age. Our elders are to experience the quality of life and be treated with dignity and respect. We know that employees in the municipalities, in the home and in the nursing homes do a great job every day to take care of our elderly. They show values that heat in practice. They deserve a great thank you from us. But we need more employees in the care of the elderly. That is not all that can be made more effective. You can't ask the employees to jump smarter. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will develop a minimum standard of staffing and competence in nursing homes and in home services according to care weight. Dignity and respect are about concrete things in everyday life: eating the food you like, getting up and lying down whenever you want and getting out and meeting other people. A well-functioning care for the elderly is a care that follows the individual, who shows respect for the elderly as a person and for fellow human beings. This is precisely the idea behind the guarantee of dignity: it obliges the municipality to provide care for the elderly who ensure the individual a decent and meaningful life as far as possible, in accordance with their individual needs. It is set out in the objectives of the Health and Welfare Services Act and in the guarantee of dignity. Individuals shall meet with respect and be treated with dignity. But we know that reality is not always such that the older ones experience dignity. For the Christian People's Party, it is a matter of fighting that the guarantee of dignity should in practice strengthen the offer to the elderly. The guarantee of dignity must be followed up. There are a number of examples of the need for further improvements in our elderly care despite the guarantee of dignity and other legislation. The Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers that older people must be allowed to participate in and control the assistance they receive, and even be able to give priority to what they want help for, and what care services they need. Today’s care for the elderly is too much driven by stopwatches and forms. Instead of basing on the needs of the elderly and relying on the skills of employees to meet the needs, many places are managed according to a standardised timetable, which does not take into account the fact that there are individual people in front of it. The Christian People's Party believes that the elder must be allowed to choose what time he is granted to be used. They have the competence to do so, and then they should have influence over it in the form of choices. The days vary, and they must be allowed to choose according to their needs. That is why the Christian People's Party will support the proposals on which we are associated with the Central Party and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9537	Does the representative also wish to address the proposals of the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9542	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9547	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9552	Two years ago, Bergen decided to streamline the use of time, the so-called norm times, with caregivers. It was a rather cross-political decision. Some examples were that the morning seats for those in need of care were reduced by 10 minutes, from 60 to 50 minutes. Shower time was cut by 10 minutes to 35 minutes. Tasks such as eye drops, writing a shopping list or helping with support stockings were also reduced by 5 minutes each. Household cleaning was to be done every three weeks instead of every other week. An evaluation report has now been drawn up by the care centres to establish that the new norm times have had more negative consequences. 86 pst. of those added to the home services believed that the changes had gone beyond the users, and they added that the working day had been more hectic. 90 pst. by the home nurses believed that the working day had been worse. The results should not be so eye-catching. It's something everyone can understand. SV is therefore raising an important debate, because this is something that is going straight out in a municipality near us. How do we ensure the older nursing good services? Is target management with norm times the way to ensure that work is done efficiently and efficiently? Do Norwegian elderly care require a trust reform to replace target management, and will manning standards ensure the necessary quality and competence in the supply? The answer to the first one is an absolute yes. The central party will vote in favour of proposals to ask the government to invite municipalities to cooperate on a trust reform in the home services. The evaluation of how resources are to be used should be left to those who receive and provide the services, and one should be responsible to the health professional who knows the user best. Quantity reporting must be minimised to the extent necessary. The answer to the last one is that the central part is a little bit more in doubt. Manning standards may be a way of ensuring the quality of the supply. Another way is to set clear quality requirements for the provision, but with clear professional guidance and clear requirements for the competence, quality and staffing of the various services in the care of the elderly. We believe that Norwegian elderly people need better basic staffing, the right skills, more time and better time use. The most important thing is that the municipal economy is proportionate to the tasks assigned to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9566	There is a great interest in Norwegian municipalities for trust reform. In the Nordic region, the idea from Copenhagen where SV’s sister party introduced the scheme in 2009. In Oslo, the reform was agreed upon in the previous period. In Tromsø she was adopted and seen by the new city government led by the Socialist Left Party, the Labour Party and the Red Party. In Stavanger, the Right and the Advance Party went together with SV to do the same. Many see the reform of trust as an offensive way of following up the reform of interaction. The main elements of the trust reform are to spend more time and resources on the needs and needs of users and less on forms and bureaucracy. Everything that weakens the relationship between health workers and caregivers must be reduced – control and detailed management must be replaced by trust and professionalism. The addendum has to be trusted to use professional judgement to a greater extent than today, and the user will have more control over his own life. Trust reform is therefore three things: a leadership reform, a governance reform and an accession reform. There is a response to the New Public Management thinking, with target management, the orderer-executor model, price financing and free choice of choice, which since the 1980s has pre-empted the Norwegian municipality sector – and which has collapsed in many ways today. The stopwatch service has proved to be cost-effective and bureaucratic; it removes resources from those who need it, weakens recruitment and wears out health workers. The image is wide and clear. It's the municipal wisdom that characterizes the picture. Although the municipalities often differ, they have the same challenges: scarce budgets, increasing numbers of people need help, an interaction reform that gives the municipality more and more demanding tasks, challenges in recruiting qualified personnel, multiple users with complex and complex suffering, and not least increasing the pressure of both people and politicians to expect. Trust reform is part of the response to this challenge. The next step is to establish a new standard for how many to add, and what kind of competence to meet them in need of care. It helps little with confidence if there are too few people. If they are to be truly able to flourish as professionals and caregivers, they must have both time and confidence. This is related. This needs to be followed up by professional tools that can be used in conjunction with an increasingly challenging and complex population of patients in municipalities. Because with more confidence, competence becomes more important and needs to be built on. In many ways today’s decision is – it’s not a plurality, but it’s a breakthrough for the idea of trust reform at national level in Norway. A composition of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party supports now SV's proposal to start work on a trust reform. This points the direction of a new multiple after the option 11 September. Line Henriette Hemdal had taken over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9592	The election shall be won with distrust, obviously. Now we've heard of public sector mistrust this whole evening. I think it is reassuring to hear that one over so many decades has rigged Norway that so many hundreds of thousands of public servants do not trust, that so many patients do not trust, that so many students and parents do not trust the school. It is clearly bad in the world’s happiest country – and the world’s richest country. For the Left, care is the basic element of primary care, and the primary health message was the answer for the future. We have to organize it differently, we have to have more skills in place, and they have to work more together. I myself have been through having an older father in a long sickleie in an Arbeiderparti-steered municipality, always run with SV or the Center Party. Instead of spending so much time in Stortinget wanting to be what it should be like: the Labour Party and the Centre Party have the vast majority of rapporteurs throughout Norway. Why was the standard then that there were 60-70 different pleasures within my father in a month? I can't understand why that should be the answer. And to that one then wants a standard of manning: it just has to be done, when one has the power in so many municipalities, which are actually responsible for running that service. So it must be possible to bring something other than a mistrust, I would hope. That's not the answer, either for the individual who's sitting and needs help, for relatives or for employees. We have to talk differently, think differently and use resources differently, because that's actually possible. In the neighborhood of my father, there is an institution for mentally retarded people. There's three shifts a day. So it would be possible to organise home services in another way as well, in watch arrangements, rather than have a number of small positions that make it absolutely impossible for employees to get a coherent service offer. So – a little late in the evening – I just have to wish you luck. It's actually possible, but start in the municipalities where you have power.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9607	Right wants to create the patient’s and the user’s healthcare service. To achieve this, we need to provide more influence for patients and users. This concerns the ability to influence the design and content of the services you receive from healthcare itself, but it is also about finding good solutions that provide the patient and the user in a good and dignified way. It is an important principle that the provision of services takes into account, as far as possible, the specific needs and wishes of the individual. Paragraph 3-1 of the Patient and User Rights Act states that the provision of services should be designed as far as possible in cooperation with the patient and the user. It is therefore important that municipalities make efforts to find individually adapted solutions. Throughout the lifetime of the Life Reform, the government has set itself the goal of finding the local solutions and tools that work in practice and making sure that they are put into use throughout the country. And we grab hold of the areas where we see that unfortunately it fails too often: food, activity, community, health care and related services. Life throughout life is a reform that comes about in cooperation with those who need the service, those who provide the service, and those who are responsible for the service. We have recognised that we cannot erase quality differences and plan a desk in the capital. That's why we're going to go into the country and listen to users, relatives and employees, who know where the shoe prints. During the spring and the autumn, we organize dialogue meetings in different places in the country, where we get insights into what are the best solutions. Together with the summary of new knowledge and research, this will form the basis for a big-scale communication planned to be presented in the spring of 2018. The notification shall provide an overview of the measures taken and shall propose new measures and instruments in this reform process. The reform shall be undertaken nationally from 2019 onwards. Like the proposers, the government is concerned with the quality and freedom of choice of health and care services. Good, efficient and secure services require good competence at the right level, in the right place and at the right time. Good competence is also a prerequisite for the good professional judgement that proposers demand. We have therefore presented a plan for recruitment, competence and professional development in municipal health and care services: Competencelift 2020. The aim of the plan is to contribute to a professionally strong service and to ensure adequate and competent staffing. I believe it is important to give time to the measures now in progress or in the process of being implemented, before any national trials or support schemes are put in place, to which the proposers refer. I would also like to remind you that we are now developing a safety standard that all hospitals can use to ensure good practice. The security standard shall include, inter alia: concrete how nursing homes can ensure good management, organisation and professional practices, including staffing. Ensuring good enough staff is important in order to have a good and safe service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9620	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9625	Freedom of choice is important in a reform of trust. Freedom of choice was also a theme in the discussion of the municipal proposition. In that debate, the representative Helgerud, who is a party to the Council of State, suggested that either freedom of choice should be a matter of choice between private and public, or there is not really any real choice if there is nothing the Workers' Party finds out to be the choice. The choice of a private supplier in the free choice of user does not apply to the right to choose the person to come home to or to decide when to stand up or lie down, nor to choose a new supplier if you find out that you have selected a fault. My question to the Council of State is: Does he agree that as the trust reform here is described, gives the better real choices than free user choice, which we have seen for some years now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9632	I do not agree with the description given by the representative Knutsen of free user choice. I have e.g. on several occasions, the users in Tromsø, such as the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Parties, will be deprived of the opportunity to choose. They just describe the importance of first being able to choose an alternative, but also the fact that the option that one then chooses has given a completely different follow-up, much more stable manning, much more one-to-one ratio. And that's important in itself. But being able to choose, and being able to choose away, is also a value for the users. In a system where only the public has the opportunity to provide these services, a complaint is often made. In a system of options, you also have a right to exchange. I am not in doubt about where the individual's rights stand most strongly – it is when you have a right to exchange, not just a right to complain.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9637	This is quite alarming, because in free user choice as practised in Oslo, and as it is in Tromsø, you have no right to re-select if you find out that you have selected a mistake. VG had a big look before the 2015 election with people in metropolitan areas in Oslo who had tried to re-select because they were dissatisfied with the private supplier, but that was not possible. Will the Council of State say that it is implicit in the free choice agreement that you can choose again, and may it be implicit that you can choose which person to come home to?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9642	The representative Knutsen knows very well that the different schemes in the area of free user choice are something that the municipalities themselves decide. I expect that the different arrangements within what is obviously the Labour Party's alternative, a trust reform, will be something that the municipalities themselves have and find different solutions to. A good guide for municipalities has now been created to introduce free user choice, and it is quite obvious that in a free user choice one should be able to choose several times, not just once.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9647	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9652	I wanted to comment on the representative, Kjeseth, who says that trust reform is based on mistrust. No, it doesn't, trust reform is based on trust. A completely different way of organising care services is to build trust. It gives and demonstrates greater trust in employees, removes control and reporting – based on trust and confidence. That is what lies in the whole reform. That's what you've been able to do in Copenhagen, that's what you're about to do in Oslo, and that's what you want to do in Tromsø. Then I hear a lot of people talk about Tromsø. That's 1 pst. which can be chosen, if the choice was so important. If you're going to have a real choice, and private/public is an important choice, you have to be about half private and half public. But in all the studies we've had – TNS Gallup has had several surveys for many years in a row – people say it's not private/public that's the important choice. You want to choose who's going to come home to you, you want to say, "I want the person who comes home and helps me with the most intimate stable, I want the person I'm comfortable with." It's not always as easy that everyone can choose on the top shelf, we all have to recognize that, but if we have a system where you can handle all the employee resources, it's easier to fulfill the user's wishes than if you split it up into many suppliers. As for what the state council said about Tromsø and those who get care in private care, or Prima Nursing, which is a company, I believe that many people think they get good services. But I also know a lot of people who get good public services in Tromsø – many. That's 99 pst. who gets good public services in Tromsø, and that's 1 pst. by the users who get services in Tromsø, who get it through the private. I think it is quite expensive to have large transaction costs for that 1 pst. should be private when people say it's not the important thing. The important thing is that you get good services, that you thrive with those who provide a service, and that you have the opportunity to choose. That's what people say is important. I know myself, when I'm getting closer to the age at which I might have to get help from others, that yes, that's what's important and not the name of the logo.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9661	What's a shame when I listen to the representative Knutsen is that it's a phobia to the private, and that the public is good. Yes, there are very many good public services that provide care services, but there are also many good private ones. It's a shame that you choose to lie down at a level where everything that's private is bad and bad, while everything that's municipal is very nice and nice. When you listen to the representative Knutsen, that's the review melody. It's sad, because I think having a supplement, having more to play on, actually provides better services to users, and that's what you should be concerned about. Then I register that we have a working party that is critical of everything that is new. During eight years with the red-green government, there was almost nothing about how to think and work in the care of the elderly to improve the care of the elderly for those who need it. This government has actually come up with a state testing scheme. Then you can argue with it, but there were actually more municipalities who said no to agree to get more earmarked funds than those who joined the state trial scheme. This means that municipalities do not want more money, as the assumption was that they had to spend the money on care for the elderly and not on other things – they had to give priority to care for the elderly. Many municipalities have been chosen, and many of them are run by the Workers' Party. There were a lot of municipalities that could think of being part of the trial scheme, but there was a voice or two missing because there was ideology and someone didn't want this. The issue we are discussing today is, in fact, that the Workers' Party and the Center Party govern most of the country's municipalities. It's just to go back to your own local politicians and say that now you have to give priority to the care of the elderly, now you have to make sure to do this. The Progress Party wants government funding precisely because we see that some municipalities do not choose to give priority to care for the elderly, but actually prioritise it down. It does not want the Progress Party. That's why we want government funding, so we were very happy when we set up an experiment scheme to see if this works, because we dare to test out new things. Then I just want to say, when representatives from the Workers' Party and SV boast of Tromsø, boasts of Oslo and boasts of Trondheim, that the examples are many on people who feel that they do not get the services they need in the care and care sector – in Åsnes, where Asbjørn was not allowed to live, but he refused to travel from the hospital, or Trygve at Voss who does not get the long-term place he has applied for. It's about local priorities, and it's about willingness to give priority. The Progress Party wants state funding precisely because if you meet the criteria, you will have a place regardless of whether the municipality chooses to give priority to care for the elderly or not. If we look back at Oslo, the SSB's preliminary figures show that despite more property taxes in Oslo, the number of employees has fallen. It's SV that controls: it's just going back and making sure to clean up the Oslo municipality, if that's what they want. But it turns out that Inga Marte Thorkildsen and the City Council in Oslo really don't want to give priority to care for the elderly, but other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9675	To the Workers' Party representative Tove Karoline Knutsen, I would like to start with a good program formulation that the Workers' Party has. It is a matter of testing trials where a hospital enterprise and municipalities can test out a unified healthcare service. That effort needs Norway, but trust reform is a little meaningless. I don't have to name municipalities, but there's a reason we've had to oblige the municipalities to report waiting lists in hospital and institutional places. It does not provide confidence that when an applicant for a place gets it when there is a place available, and not when the need is there. This is an example of how the allocation offices have pushed the queues. Now at least they have to show the cards. It says something about the need for openness and information to create trust. It has not been made visible, and then you cannot be trusted. When you have so many employees in so many different job fractions, it doesn't give any mention of trust, either. It's the only sector of society I know about that operates with so intricate and so small job fractions, and where employees can actually refuse to work on different floors in a nursing home. It is very special that such demands can be made. It must be possible for an employer to demand that a person have a full job, but different workplaces, whether on different floors or different institutions. This is also about who should be involved in building capacity. After all, the red-green government took the opportunities to build housing cooperatives. They were no longer granted. What confidence is that? Here all actors are needed, here we need all the trust we can create and get, but obviously not everyone gets it. Welfare technology and innovation are small when the main task of the care manager is to get the temporary cabal to go around, not look ahead and create new opportunities, new capacity and new organisation in the care and care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9686	I thought it was very revealing to see in the setting that the government party does not support the proposal that older people should have an impact on who actually cares about them. That is the deepest question of freedom of choice. There is a kind of final declaration of rejection from the government’s mouth of ‘election’ — a change of approach they should use less and less as the years go by. The disclosure is that freedom of choice has not been about the help-needed ones out there, they are actually about this matter. It's about something completely different. It's about the freedom of the company to enter into public welfare and take over business there. That's what it's all about, and what I think the whole setting has been is a revealing demonstration of. So to Kjeseth -- this is probably just going into the sequence of different things that the Left is dealing with, where they're on the wild road towards people out there. The left is able to see this proposal as a distrust. Then I wonder where the loyalty of the left is. Loyalty is not with the help-needed ones, who will get this proposal strengthened. He is not with those added, who should actually do the job. No, loyalty lies with the system. When the proposal proposes to reduce the reporting system and the target management system in both the country and the municipality, the Left only manages to see mistrust. They can't see the trust this should give people who are actually in a care situation. It's quite unlikely. And it makes me think about what kind of party left has actually become -- more loyal to the system, more loyal to the government than to the people one is set to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9693	The representative, Kjeseth, says it's just to get started. There are three municipalities in Norway that have now started. But it would have been very nice if you did what you did in Denmark, that the government was also involved in raising this, and that's what this proposal is an invitation to. Otherwise, I fully agree with the representative, Kjeseth, that there is no quick fix in such a new organisational model, there is a thorough work that needs to be done. And then for freedom of choice – private and public. We've discussed it before, and I can repeat it: we're knowledge-based in the way we view it. We have a lot of research on this. We have experience in those who have been exposed to competition and privatised the care of elderly people, such as the elderly. in Sweden. And then we want as much as possible of that money, all the money we give to the elderly, to go to the elderly through good staffing, good skills and decent wages and pensions for the employees. That is what we want. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9702	It is quite special to hear the previous speeches from this pulpit tell about the terrible private and obviously also talk down employees who work in private care services. In fact, I think many of those who work in private care services get a little horrified when they hear how some representatives talk about the job they do. I believe that either you are a public employee or a private employee in the care profession, you are actually there to do the best possible job and provide good services to those who are to receive them. And so, when you pull out these three cities like SV and the Workers' Party, you're very busy drawing out as the good examples, you're going to spend all the money on care and care, and not on private companies: that's exactly why -- if you can manage to deliver better and cheaper services, like the Courthouse, which provides better services with more employees at work. It is said that those who live there are not concerned about, or care about, whether it is like this or not. No, they care about continuing to live where they live and being allowed to be with the employees who work there now. And the Hovsetter home is a private hospital where the people who live there went to fight to get allowed to continue living there, and to keep having the staff that the City Council in Oslo, with SV in the head, seemed too good. I think it's sad. I do not think you have too good elderly care in the municipality of Oslo, nor with the private people, so I think it is bad that there is such a search for someone, and that it is important that there is a sign on the wall where there is a municipality, and that you should not be more concerned about actually providing good services to those who need it. That's exactly what this government is doing with the new reform. Here you want to bring the municipalities, here you want to get the good examples, and there are many of them around the country. And then you're going to play on all the good recordings you get to make sure you lift the care services and lift the elderly in the country. That's the whole point. And you're actually concerned that users are going to get a lot more to say, so I'm also glad that the reform is coming, that the government is going to continue, and that we're going to get good care for the elderly to all those who need it. And as I said, the Progress Party would like to see us get full government funding in place, because then it wouldn't have been possible to provide good services depending on whether the municipalities have money or not. All the municipalities that are part of the state trial scheme are, as far as I have registered, very satisfied with their participation, and believe that they provide good and even better services to their citizens – because they are in the state effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9713	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9728	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9737	The Christian People's Party has put forward proposals to provide undocumented immigrants with access to prevention and treatment services in primary care services, including the right to be on the list of permanent staff. It is also suggested that the government ensure that the supply of vulnerable groups of paperless migrants, such as children, persons with disabilities, pregnant women and the elderly, is in line with the supply of the population otherwise. It is also proposed to ask the government to develop funding schemes for health services for paperless without funds. Suggestions cannot be plural, but they are supported by the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Center parties in the option, with slightly different wording. The right to health is a human right. It is indisputable and is enshrined in several international conventions and declarations. Health care should be available to all, without discrimination. In Norway, people without permanent residence in the empire are entitled to immediate health care, health care that is absolutely necessary and cannot be expected, necessary health care before and after birth and abortion and the right to infectious disease protection. Children also have the right to the necessary health and care services from the local health service and the specialist services. However, patients who are not resident in Norway should cover the treatment and care costs themselves. If the patient is unable to do so, the costs shall be borne by the healthcare institution or service provider concerned. There are many indications that the right to health care in Norway without discrimination is not followed up in practice – not because the services or professionals oppose it, but because the Stortinget uses health services as an immigration regulatory measure. That's inappropriate. In 2015, eleven Norwegian organisations signed a call for health care for paperless people. It was suggested that children under the Children’s Convention must have the right to permanent residence as other children, and it was focused on the fact that today’s legislation places health professionals at a disadvantage when they are forced to deviate from the principle of providing care and medical treatment based on needs. It violates the occupational ethics guidelines for health professionals. In the May 2009 Health Directorate report, Migration and Health, they make a number of recommendations to us to improve access to health care for paperless migrants. There are some professional contributions that support this proposal from the Norwegian Medical Association, the Church's Bymition, the Doctors Without Borders and Health Aid for Paperless in Oslo and Bergen, all of which describe challenges with today's practice. It is alarming that a health council and a population increase can argue that a health assistance should not be provided because it is too generous a scheme, which could be a migration factor that will lead to more people coming to Norway as undocumented migrants. The centre part will be clear: doctors and other health professionals should be health workers, not border guards. With this, I'm going to deal with the proposals of the Center Party, what we're all about, and the ones we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9754	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9759	I would first like to thank the Christian People's Party for putting the search light on health care to the paperless. There is an extremely vulnerable group, and there is reason to believe that there are many minors in this group, including lone minors, who are particularly vulnerable. Health problems that are often reported are injuries, work injuries, infections, sexually transmitted diseases and mental disorders. Health problems are often linked to unsafe living conditions, poor living standards and poor working conditions. In particular, community health services are in demand, and with a better knowledge of available services, more interventions and serious health conditions and situations could have been avoided. Health services also have a responsibility to help protect against infectious disease and to prevent serious disorders that may have an impact on individuals and society around them. The red-green government adopted a regulation in 2012 to strengthen the right to necessary health care for people without a legal stay. We've got a lot of good professional recordings from the Medical Association, the Church's Bymission, Doctors Without Borders and Health Aid to the paperless in Oslo and Bergen, all of which describe challenges in fulfilling the intentions of today's system. The main challenge is better access to health care for paperless migrants. Uncertainty about funding can also be challenging. Health professionals give feedback on the dilemma they face — whether they should provide health care without having the funding cleared in advance, and know that those receiving help may not be able to pay for the health care itself afterwards. The Workers' Party recognises and will highlight in particular the work of volunteers in the Red Cross, the Church's Bymission and Health Assistance to provide health care. The working party considers that there is a need to assess whether the changes implemented in 2012 are working after the intention. We believe that more knowledge should be gained about the financing and organisation system and that experience from other countries should be looked at. Sweden has recently evaluated the changes they made in 2013. We believe that there is a need for more knowledge about how the changes that were implemented in 2012 work, and will therefore not support any of the proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9772	In Document 8, the proposers have several proposals that give people without the right to stay in Norway, so-called paperless, extended health care rights, which are in line with the health care of the general public. This applies, inter alia, to: prevention and curative services in primary health services, such as the right to be on the list of permanent staff. Many have been concerned with health care for paperless people, and in 2015 11 Norwegian organisations signed the Right to health care for paperless people. The UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights recommends that people without permanent residence in the state receive health care in the same way as others. The regulation on the right to health and care services for persons without permanent residence in the state states that everyone has the right to immediate assistance. It is also established that undocumented persons are entitled to unwaitable health care, the right to necessary health care before and after birth, the right to abortion and the right to infectious diseases services. Children are also entitled to health and care services from municipalities and specialist health services, as are people who are mentally unstable. Children and pregnant women have the same right to health care if their stay is lawful or not. This is in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which requires that the child’s best interests be a fundamental consideration in the design of the offer. The right to health care was also strengthened and regulated in such a way that there was a consistent practice in 2011. Since pregnant persons without paper are not members of the public interest, they have to pay for the service under the legislation if they have the means to do so, but if they do not have the means to cover the expenditure themselves, they must be paid by the municipality or the State. Comments from the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left show that schemes in other countries are more accessible than Norwegian ones. But it is quite difficult to compare, and it is up to each country to decide which healthcare to provide within the framework of human rights. It is important that the legislation we have on health care for paperless people does not break our international obligations. Today, we have legislation that distinguishes between those who have legal residence and those who do not have legal residence. Right does not want to change that and cannot support the proposals. We are also sceptical about our own system of financing health care for the paperless, as it can also create unintended effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9785	Norway was named the world’s happiest country this year. In the introduction to the report, we can read that Norway achieves its high level of happiness — not because of oil wealth, but despite it. Experience of happiness has a clear link with good welfare arrangements, well-managed human rights and good governance linked to a healthy economy. It is that in Norway in general, we have good living conditions, but also a high level of trust between people, which makes us less skeptical and that we feel safer — a country perhaps most people want to live in. Paperless migrants – who are they? The Church's Bymition and Red Cross run a health center for paperless migrants. According to them, paperless migrants include those people who have been denied a previous asylum application but who continue to stay in Norway and those who are outside the asylum process — i.e. those who have not applied for asylum or have never been registered by the Norwegian authorities. Statistical central agency has estimated that there are 18 000 undocumented immigrants living in the country today, i.e. illegal immigrants are mainly persons who are not entitled to asylum or stay on a humanitarian basis. These are people without protection, people who have an obligation to leave the country. However, there may also be persons who have come to the country without a legal visa and who have not applied for asylum or given notice to the authorities. Some of these are criminal drug sellers who seek asylum at the moment the police take them. They know that they in any case do not receive asylum and thus train the process up to rejection as long as possible. I think it's great that ideal institutions like the Church's Bymition and the Red Cross want to offer health care to people without a residence permit. But what I don't think is great is that they are involved in undermining the fact that several of their users have a legal decision on relocation, an assessment carried out in line with the laws and regulations of the country. It is not the case now that the powers of government in Norway are some inhuman and emotional persons who have designed the law, for example. persons with a final refusal to apply for protection, asylum and persons without a legal residence in the country are entitled to immediate health care and health care which is absolutely necessary and cannot be expected. Among other things, the Patient and User Rights Act states that all persons living in the state have the right to immediate assistance and evaluation from the specialist health service. The difference is that illegal immigrants have to pay the costs themselves. Recognising that those who are today illegal immigrants in Norway should be able to live, work and be entitled to health care, we might as well put down the entire asylum system, open the borders and say that anyone can stay in Norway, I think. I think that giving people without a legal stay in Norway the same right to health care as people who are legally staying will lead to many more visiting Norway to receive free health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9798	I don't know if those who live in Norway without paper experience that they live in the happiest country in the world. Paperless migrants are a diverse group today entitled to immediate help or health care that cannot be expected. All pregnant women living in the kingdom are entitled to the necessary health care both before and after birth, including maternity and maternity care. But since they are not a member of the population, they have to pay for this healthcare themselves. It goes without saying that for paperless migrants, this is almost impossible to pay. Health costs are too high. When you also have a backpack that makes you actually insecure with the public, you can only ask who is looking for health care and getting help. The Health Directorate made a number of recommendations in May 2009 to help provide access to health care for the undocumented. They gave a lot of good advice. It is the advice of the Christian People's Party with its proposal now called for to be fulfilled. We're glad that many parties see the need to make changes, and we're going to keep working to get more for this group. Today there are many who do a great job, like the Bymission, the Red Cross and other organizations. They take responsibility. The state doesn't take responsibility. I think that's wrong. We're talking about people in distress. We know that countries that we often like to compare with have much better arrangements than what we have in Norway. With regard to rights for paperless migrants, it is the only category in the health field where Norway is in a weak position. In Norway, undocumented immigrants are far less entitled than in our neighbouring countries. The Christian People's Party believes it is time for the authorities to take responsibility for these people. They're as much worth as anyone else. They are in a vulnerable situation, and we in the Christian People's Party are happy that our center friends agree with us. We promote our proposals and encourage all parties to take responsibility. If our neighboring country can, so can we. I take up the proposals that the Christian People's Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9811	The representative of Olug Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9816	First of all, thank the representatives of the Christian People's Party, who have promoted this important proposal. Norway is a small country, but a humanitarian act. We want to be. We can always get better, it's always possible, and in this area, Norway has other countries to look for. For the first time, doctors Without Borders have engaged in a matter in Norway. We're going to remember that. They say that some of them they meet again in Norway are people they have given assistance to in war-torn areas or in other disaster areas. But – as the representative of Bollestad was also involved – it is a diverse group. Many of the undocumented are also victims of human trafficking. Among these are many women and children. We should also bear in mind that children do not choose their parents, and many of these children suffer from the fact that they themselves or their parents do not receive the necessary health care. For Norway, it is also important to ensure the public health part of health work here, because we can avoid much infection and transmission by treating as early as possible. So to the representative Ruth Grung, who would like to evaluate. We have to do that, but I do not see that it is a barrier to implementing the proposals that the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left are voting for today. There are some practical arrangements that we need to look at, including: record-keeping systems, which are currently deficient for the persons concerned. It is difficult for hospital staff to keep records that will be handed over to primary health services. Today, health workers are mainly in a non-profit establishment providing services. There are many examples of undocumented travel to Oslo from large parts of the country to seek health care. Some of them don't want to see anyone in public health. That is why it is important that we develop more regional centres. From the left side, I would also like to point out that in our programme for the next period, we put a ceiling on the number of private fixed doctors at 90 p.m., so that municipalities have to stick with a number of municipal workers doctors, and that they can also be important actors in providing paperless necessary health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9833	SV supports proposal No. One, two, three. If necessary – if the majority change, so that there is room for some secondary considerations – we can support proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox We therefore support the essence of what is proposed in this matter. I want to tell the President a story – or actually a story – about Norwegian traditions. I – who probably very many here – have both relatives and are born and raised along the Norwegian coast and know the story of our ancestors about what it was like to live in the past. It was always the case that if there was someone in the straits, there was an obligation to help – completely independent of who it was, it was completely irrelevant. One didn't have to know who they were -- one didn't have to like the one time -- it was a duty to help. And so it has been in Norway for thousands of years. It's Norwegian tradition. That's an order. If someone broke this order and didn't help people who were in trouble, everything could happen. One name and reputation was at least bad out, for the whole foundation, the whole assurance of living in a hard climate along a hard coast, was that one knew of this duty, that one followed this order. It had nothing to do with love, it had a duty to do – duty to help people in need. It seems that a whole lot in this room has forgotten the Norwegian traditions. But perhaps one has not forgotten that in 2014 we had a major constitutional reform: the first paragraph of Section 98 of the Constitution states: ‘Everyone is equal to the law.’ When this was dealt with, in 2014, many people pointed out that this would probably not have any practical consequences. But ashore like this. Germany and the United States, where one has operated on this equality norm, see that it has had quite extensive consequences. A question here: Toler the position of the plural in this hall of water in meeting with Basil, in meeting the reference from the international conference on human rights – and not least in meeting proud Norwegian traditions? I like to see judicial control with the practice that one applies here, because this should not happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9850	People living in Norway who are in need and need lifesaving help receive help — and will receive help. All residents of Norway are entitled to immediate assistance from the municipal health and care services and from specialist health services. They have the right to health care that is absolutely necessary and cannot wait. Persons without a permanent stay in Norway are, as a general rule, required to pay for health care. A significant proportion of those who do not have legal residence in Norway will have problems paying bills over a certain size. If the patient himself cannot cover the cost, it shall be covered by the healthcare institution, the municipality or the service provider. The image of the representative, Mr. Knag County, is a very good picture of what is happening in Norway today, as the majority in this Chamber are behind it: if you are in need, you need help – and you get it in Norway. The healthcare service may not require prior payment or proof of payment capability until the assistance is provided. It is also impossible to reject patients who do not have the opportunity to settle. It is true that we have different rules on the right to health care and health care payments for people with and without permanent residence in Norway. They are the result of a factual discrimination based on the patient’s relationship with Norway. I assume that the Norwegian legislation does not violate human rights or our international obligations in this area. I trust that the healthcare system will ensure that people without a legal stay in Norway receive the health services they require, including: must ensure that children are granted their right to general medical care. In this context, it is difficult to compare services in different countries. In any case, it must be up to each country to decide which services it is reasonable to provide within the framework of human rights. Health professionals are subject to strict rules on professional secrecy. This applies regardless of whether the patient is legally or illegally present in Norway. Under today's rules, there is a great deal to be done in order for healthcare professionals to provide the police with silent information. Therefore, people without legal residence in Norway need not be afraid to seek health care. The size agreed with the introduction of the fixed medical device in 2001 provided for legal residence in order to obtain rights in the fixed medical scheme. Moreover, the need to maintain continuity in the treatment relationship between the patient and the doctor is less relevant to persons residing here illegally and is assumed to leave the country as soon as possible. The municipality has an obligation to dimension the general medical service in such a way that it has the capacity to treat the patients who are staying in the municipality at any time. They shall also apply to those who are not entitled to be on the list of members of the Management Board. Determiners shall set aside time within the ordinary office hours to receive patients other than those on the list. Immediate help and other health care services that are necessary and cannot be expected cannot be deprioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9865	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9870	In a reading by the leader of the Norwegian Medical Association, the leader of the Norwegian Association for General Medicine and the head of the Medical Council on this matter, entitled ‘Leger shall be a health worker – not a border guard’, it says: Today there are two alternatives in meeting with paperless people: they can close the door, as the authorities want – or they can accept, but then they have to provide free health care, because the public does not pay the expenses for those who do not have the papers in order. What is the Council of State’s recommendation for determination? Should they close the doors, or should they accept and pay for themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9879	It's very clear what the legislation is. If this is health care that is necessary and we can help, health care should be provided. If the patient has the opportunity to pay, he must pay himself. If the patient does not have the opportunity to pay, it is the healthcare institution or the service provider who has to take the bill. In this context, I would recommend that the decision maker contact the municipality that is responsible for these services – if they come into a situation where they feel that they cannot provide this help without being paid for it. Then they contact the municipality, which is responsible for the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9884	Thank you for your answer. When it is that health is a human right and one should provide health care without discriminating, does the Council of State think it is Norway worthy that one has no publicly funded health provision for this group, especially in the municipal health service, where one knows that there is a very great need? Is it right that there should be non-profit organisations that do this on their own? Is it right that there should be health professionals, like regulars, who take them in the doors, instead of closing them out? Is it right that, as a health council for all, whether you have the papers in order or not, this group does not provide a health service in line with international conventions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9889	I believe the representative's presentation is a major error. That's my answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9894	What do the Health Councils think there is a group of people within his area of responsibility in the country he's a government council that he doesn't know anything about? They live in our country, they have health challenges, but the Council of State does not allow itself or the country – or help to the individual – to find and help these people. What does the Council of State think about not knowing anything about the disease image of such a large group of people?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9899	If there are people who are illegal in Norway and need health care, they have the opportunity to get help, both immediately from the municipal health and care services and from the specialist health services. They also have the right to receive health care that is absolutely necessary and that cannot wait. Norwegian health professionals have good rules of silence, so you can seek help in a safe way. It is my very clear position that if people stay illegally in Norway, they break Norwegian law, then it is their duty to deal with the decisions that the Norwegian authorities have taken to help to return to the country in which they have legally resided. We live in a legal society where we have good legal practices about these kinds of decisions. I expect that the individual will also deal with this – with the decisions of the Norwegian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9906	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9911	I want to give an explanation for a proposal from the Center Party where we are not fully associated with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The difference is that we want to give the right to set up for children. Otherwise, we would give you the right to a general medical service, and there are several ways to secure it. Amongst other things, one of them wrote in the setting that one could use the time that everyone determines in the municipal health service. So that's that nuance, that difference, in the suggestions. I have a comment on what has been said: Some parties want more knowledge before going further in this matter, but we have clear recommendations from the Health Directorate, we have clear recommendations from organizations working in these services, so at least that means the Center Party is unnecessary, in the situation we have now. What scares me in this case is that one can say in Stortinget that one will have a distinction in health care between those who are legally suspended and those who are not legally retired. But we're talking about the basic health services. It is not discrimination to provide health care to all, and it is not in line with human rights. I think it's unethical, and I think it's unacceptable. This is not about immigration policy or whether we should be strict or less strict. But those who are here have a basic right, and one cannot expose health professionals to such a practice as one has today in Norway. We had a discussion about this also four years ago. And to the representative of the Progress Party, who thinks this will lead to many coming to Norway: the Progress Party went even further four years ago, because then they actually prayed in Innst. 184 S for the 2009-2010 government ‘promoting the necessary legislative amendments to ensure that the provision of humanitarian or health-related assistance, in addition to immediate or urgent assistance, to persons with illegal residence is prohibited by law’. And they propose to ‘introduce reporting obligations to the police of any organisation and undertaking with a foreigner likely to reside illegally in the State’. Now maybe the whole discussion has been a little bit more humane in four years, but I think Norway has a way to go before we get a health offer for everyone, in line with international conventions and human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9924	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 30.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9940	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9949	The representative proposal from Kjersti Toppe deals with waiting times, patients’ right to hospital treatment, and not least the desire for full transparency about waiting times and waiting lists. There has been a debate in the media about waiting times. There are questions about why more patients than in the past have been referred to investigation and not treatment, and there have been claims that hospitals adapt activity to prevent time-limits. It is important to plan and carry out good patient routines in hospitals, as do waiting times, which they do with this government. The introduction of cancer-packaging pathways and the introduction of package pathways for both strokes, intoxication and mental health contribute to more predictability for patients. It is good that the Council of State has taken action and has launched an investigation to improve registration, and not least to investigate whether to remove the distinction between time-limits for investigation and time-limits for processing. Let's say we're all concerned with openness about waiting lists and treatment in hospitals. In June 2016, the Minister of Health and Health gave a statement on waiting lists here in Stortinget, and he announced that the Health Directorate, among others. would be tasked with finding out why more patients were registered as undecided and why the proportion with the right to investigate was increased. The report has now come – it came on 3 May – and they have among other things. the reason why some patients have been considered not to be in need of health care. This is explained by the Directorate for Health that the coding ‘refused’, i.e. it encodes diagnostics into patients, contains reasons other than medical. In fact, by correcting this, health businesses are quite similar in reporting. The Health Directorate also points out that the reason for more patients being sent to the investigation can be explained by the ongoing medical and technological development and that more patients should actually be investigated. Similarly, legislation and revision of prioritisation guides may be perceived and interpreted differently. There is a need to consider improving recording and introducing waiting time measurement points. We are very pleased that the Council of State has commissioned healthcare companies to develop and put in place the indicator ‘number of patient contacts that have passed the scheduled time’. It will provide an overview, and we are happy to report it as early as 2017. Although there is a need to look at the legislation and patient administration systems, and there is a need for simplification, we need to make sure that new measuring points in patient processes and systems do not make employees work more and less patient contact, and that we need to hire more support staff. It is therefore very important to have a continuous assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9966	This is a big case field, which had really deserved to be discussed in its full width, but I think quite simply we're saying that the intellectual capacity of the individual among us now so late at night is limited. Therefore, I should like to make a few brief comments on the proposals themselves. There are several conditions that affect the waiting time patients experience in hospitals. That is what the debate has shown for the last year. The official version, the official measurements of waiting times in Norway, is largely about the time to first contact with the hospital, not the time when many patients actually experience initiation or termination of treatment. That time has also fallen under this government. It also went down under the previous government. That's good. What is more worrying is that the number of patients who get their referral rejected by the specialist healthcare service is increasing. There are different explanations as to why this happens, but there is still a need to get closer to what is the reason for this. The last point is perhaps the most important point, as the representative Örmen Johnsen pointed out, that the revelations in the last year have shown that every year it may be up to 150 000–200000 contracts that hospitals have made with the individual patient, which are broken by the hospital because there is no overview, control, systems – cannot plan for an overall patient cycle. Those numbers we've gotten partly on the table, but as I understand it, we're getting new numbers pretty soon. It will be exciting to see if they match the general decline in waiting times or if the picture is still too high. One final point is that the report referred to has not gone into depths as to whether there have been different adaptations by health businesses based on the economic or resource situation and whether there has been a political pressure that has made it felt necessary to take action to get the waiting lists and waiting times as short as possible. It would have been a strength for the report, but it has not been discussed. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for a new reform of transparency, and that there is no need to be a statistical expert to find out how you will actually be received, and what kind of treatment you will receive from hospitals. This will be an important point for any new government, and I am absolutely sure that today's government parties really see that the system we have today is not good enough. This is why the Workers' Party is promoting a number of proposals to launch, inter alia. that work. With regard to the proposal from the Central Party to lift the distinction that is in the law today, between unexplained and declared states, we are not ready to do that exercise right now. But in a situation where over 80 pst. Of the patients being put as undecided, we're already on our way there. I'm addressing proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9985	The representative of Torgeir Mikalsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e9990	Life as a health politician is never boring. Getting involved in laying the foundation for future Health Norway is exciting and instructive. Last week we debated municipal reform and task transfer to the municipalities – and building the patient’s health service, millimetres by millimetre, stone by stone. Today we are going to debate waiting times at the country's hospital. Everyone knows that building and renewing Health Norway is not done in a hand turn. Things take time, things need quality assurance, things need to be anchored. When we finally reach a goal we have set, it is all the more pleasant – as it is now, with 70,000 fewer in hospital queues, with an average waiting time of 60 days, a decrease of five days from last year. It is nice when the Health Directorate confirms that the waiting time at national level overall is falling. The positive development of waiting times is primarily due to significant efforts by all the good people working in hospitals, and the use of 28 cancer package pathways. However, it is also due to solid hospital budgets, more diversity and strengthened patient rights, as well as to the fact that clearer demands for results and greater freedom for hospitals are also important for achieving the objectives. That's why it's a little special for me that the representative Toppe is not happy with us. I'm, just like Toppe, busy giving our residents the best help and a complete patient routine. All patients should be evaluated individually. If it is such that all patients are automatically given time for investigation and have not been individually assessed, this is unlawful and unacceptable. The Health Directorate also points out in its report that medical and technical developments lead to the possibility and need to investigate several diseases. The Health Directorate also says that there are sources of error in the patient administration systems, which could lead to misregistration. In any case, the operation of major hospitals is complicated. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Health and Welfare is addressing current and important issues – such as in this case by asking the Directorate of Health to take a closer look at the background to changes in waiting list statistics, and what their consequences are. He did. The report is now available, and the Minister himself has said that he will quickly decide on the Health Directorate’s proposal for action, which any responsible manager will do after a report including proposals for action has been submitted. Improved recording, security of disclosure around waiting times and the introduction of multiple measurement points are already under way. In fact, I think we should be glad that the evening is soon over, and that summer may come, waiting for wise answers and measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10011	So true, so true.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10016	I have been responsible for waiting lists and have taken phones from worried patients. Being sick and waiting for treatment can be incredibly demanding for many. For patients with diagnosis who have a package course, or who come in acutely, on the other hand, the path is open. But for those who are waiting for other things, it can be a hard time. The questions are: Do I have a right to treatment or not? When should I be able to demand an answer? Are the waiting lists real, or are there multiple waiting lists? How far have you gone in the process? The Christian People's Party believes that patients should have access to complete and truthful information, and that this should be communicated in a language understood by patients. For those who do not know the hospital language, letters can distance themselves, show power and reduce the patient’s encounter with the healthcare system. The Christian People's Party, the Labour Party and the Center Party believe that there is a need for a reform that gives more transparency about quality and real waiting times in hospitals. Then we can measure the right parameters and get a good quality. All the discussions that have been going on lately show that there is a need to look at whether the control parameters that we use today actually work as intended. If there is something about treatment that matters to us who are waiting, it is time – not when I get a consultation, but when I get a treatment. Hospitals report quality, but one of the most important parameters must be the patient’s experience of quality, and the Christian People’s Party believes that such parameters must be counted extensively, made available and quality ensured. Should we really be able to choose within the free hospital choice scheme, quality means an incredible amount. The Christian People's Party does not think it is good enough to be taken off the waiting list after the first consultation – this is because the sick person must be removed only after the course of treatment has been adopted or when you have been informed that you are not entitled to treatment. Waiting lists are difficult, but waiting lists are something that can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10031	When nine out of ten patients are entitled to treatment and not entitled to treatment, the legal distinction between these patients, on which our patient rights are based, is of little value. The Central Party and I have put forward this proposal for a representative to force a debate on our legislation and whether it will last for our patients. I am pleased that the Council of State is very clear that we need to evaluate the legislation. In the media last year, there was a large increase in the number of patients on the waiting list for distribution and not for treatment. The Council of State asked the Health Directorate to examine why, and the report did not provide any good answers. Changes in practice may have several reasons, according to the Directorate. Patients are shown to be included in the list for distribution due to medical developments and new professional guidelines. At the same time, the report states that there is no clear link between recommendations on distribution and treatment in the guidance counsellors and the practice of granting rights of distribution or treatment. Reference is made to the journal system DIPS, which three out of four healthcare professionals use, which has made registration difficult. However, it has not been investigated, i.e. that it increases the responsibility for time-limit patients and the obligation that healthcare professionals now have to notify HELFO if one sees that the treatment periods are broken, with financial sanctions as a consequence, have led to health care practices. This has not been examined, and as you can see, the report from the Health Directorate is not so much worth. Nevertheless, there are good statistics, and the recommendations of the Health Directorate are sensible, because we cannot have legal rights based on the fact that patients are divided into those who need treatment, and those who need treatment, when saying that all patients are now referred to treatment and not treatment. In addition, when there are very large differences in the individual medical assessment of how a patient is forwarded, there is also a reason to dissociate it. If we continue with this system, it's the patients' corrections that go beyond it. The distinction between having a right and a time limit for distribution or treatment was an attempt to solve a challenge of bringing together medical and legal needs, but the Health Directorate states in the report that this is an inappropriate solution. That also means the Center Party. We don't need to figure this out any more, but we need to figure out how to solve the problem in a new process. That's what our suggestions, which I'm addressing, go out on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10044	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10050	I would like to start by agreeing with the representative Toppe that there is a need to look at the legislation. Work is in progress on it, and not least a work has been undertaken on the registration of patient administration systems. I commissioned the Health Directorate in June 2016 to investigate some of the issues related to the waiting time registration. The Health Directorate’s assessment is that the waiting time at national level overall decreases. On 3 May of this year, the Health Directorate wrote that studies show that the proportion of patients assigned to the investigation after referral to the specialist healthcare service is increasing, and that this can mainly be explained by the medical development and implementation of a new legislation through the prioritisation guide. The Health Directorate also refers to sources of errors in the patient administration system, which may lead to misregistration. The Health Directorate report shows that this is a complex picture and that it is complicated to find one concrete reason why there is variation in the practice of legislation. There is too much variation in several areas of healthcare today. It is therefore not surprising that there is variation in this area as well. Nevertheless, the Health Directorate's report suggests that the practice has become more similar today than it was before. There has been a great deal of attention on time-limits for investigation or treatment. All patients shall be given a specific deadline for starting healthcare at the latest. When starting healthcare, the patient shall have a proper patient history, even if no legal deadlines are set for the further course. It is important that patients are given the rights they are entitled to and that the waiting time is recorded correctly. However, I must point out that we must not forget that the important thing is that the patient has a good and complete patient history. The Health Directorate report does not indicate that patients do not have a proper course of action. Nevertheless, I believe that the report suggests that there is a need to look at measures. I agree with the proposal of the representative that there is a need to assess legislation and improvements in registration and to assess several points of measurement for waiting time. The Health Directorate proposes the same in its report. I have entrusted the health regions with the task of establishing the indicator ‘ Proportion of patient contacts that have passed the scheduled time’ in the management relationship. This is a mission that was started in 2015. The national figures for the indicator will be published for the first time in a short time, and this will provide us with information on the ability of hospitals to plan and implement good patient outcomes. The Health Directorate also publishes annual figures for the indicator ‘Time to start of service’. The indicator shows the waiting time from the receipt of referral in the hospitals until a specific treatment or investigation procedure has been carried out. This will also be published from 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10069	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10074	Does the Council of State consider that there is an alternative, as the situation is, to eliminate the current distinction between patients entitled to distribution and patients entitled to treatment? I understand that it has to work out, but does the Council see any alternative to what the Health Directorate and the Central Party propose?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10079	I don't recommend that a person go to the step of taking away a patient's right until someone possibly has figured out what's going to happen instead. I am very concerned that we ensure that the patient has good rights in the further course as well, and that there are good systems attached to it. The Health Directorate just points to the package processes that this government has put in place as one good way to ensure good patient outcomes. But I think it's a good idea to ask this question, which is under way, before a draw the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10084	There was criticism when the Health Directorate’s report came, because one had not dealt with what many were concerned about — whether it is that the practice in hospitals and healthcare professionals was changed because of economic considerations, because one has been given increased responsibility for providing patients with an alternative offer if time-limits were likely to be broken. This has not been examined, and there is a major weakness in the report. The question is why this was not a mission to the Health Directorate when they were asked to look at why this change, after one had seen the increase in growth in the number of distribution spaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10089	I do not feel that there were any limitations to it in the assignment – on the contrary. One of the reasons why the report was delayed was that one would just have brought all the figures from 2016, so that one would have the whole consequence of the introduction of the new patient and user rights rights law. If you hadn't gotten numbers from the whole 2016, it would have been a very short period of time when this law had worked. However, the trend towards more patients being put into investigation rather than treatment is one which has gone quite steadily over time and which began long before that change was introduced. I'm assuming that's a reason why the Health Directorate hasn't stressed that particular point.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10094	I don't know if the state council misunderstood my question, but it was also said when the Health Directorate submitted the report, that one had not asked them to look at it. It states that they did not have a mandate to do so, and at least there was no investigation into whether any of the practices might have given rise to economic considerations in health professionals. They haven't joined it. If the council thinks this has been examined, I can't see where it's done. Does the Council of State think one should have done that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10099	It may be that I misunderstand the representative's questions, but I do not understand that there were any limitations in the Health Directorate's mandate in that area. I also understand that one of the reasons why the director wanted the figures from the whole of 2016 was just to bring with him an entire year where the new rights had been valid.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10104	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 31.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10153	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10201	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10218	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an extensive investigation to identify the extent of violence against the elderly, in order to implement effective measures to combat violence against the elderly.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more accessible information aimed at the elderly on violence against the elderly and on existing relief measures.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better knowledge of violence against the elderly in the municipalities and among all those working with the elderly.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10263	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mrs Klinge on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that digitisation projects are carried out in all district courts in Norway.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10311	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10328	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mrs Klinge on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 132 S No 1077/2011 establishing a European Agency for the Operational Management of Large IT Systems, etc., 2) the conclusion of an agreement between the EU and Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and Liechtenstein on the participation of the European Agency for the Operational Management of Large IT Systems in the area of Freedom, Security and Justice - to be sent back to the Government, and the Government is asked to promote a new case for the Storting after the Court of Justice has decided whether the provisions are in line with EU law. ‘... [[EU]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10359	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10375	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the blocking of pornographic websites that do not introduce age control for visitors.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10410	The Committee shall be consulted on the position to be taken with regard to I.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10420	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the Committee's position at II. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10434	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the position of the Committee on III. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10448	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10465	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Marianne Aasen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Party of the Centre, the Left and the Left Party of Socialism There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to include the development of educational resources in the credit system of universities and higher education institutions.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10492	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to explain how in all higher education institutions it can organise its own topics of critical thinking, insight into science theory, source criticism and multidisciplinary approaches.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10519	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10531	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10549	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 3, from Anders Tyvand on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left the proposals No 1 and 2, from Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Anders Tyvand on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 5, from Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 6, from Anders Tyvand on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7-12, from Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 13, from Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for an obligation to provide intensive training for students who do not have expected progress in a trade.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10589	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to terminate Norway’s participation in the International Student Assessment Programme.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out national samples as sample samples.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10611	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9–12, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that no local requirements for monitoring and documentation can be imposed in addition to those required by the regulations of the Training Act.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to include the national sample samples in writing and the voluntary character and learning support tests in the national quality assessment system.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government does not request the establishment of a so-called fixed minimum level of quality in primary school.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the sector, will be asked to further develop the national quality assessment system as a learning support and educational tool and to achieve a wider range of school objectives.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10645	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for the introduction of skills requirements for teachers to teach in practical-esthetic subjects.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10662	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up an overall plan to strengthen the provision of continuing education in the field of the school’s subjects and competences, and to assess the introduction of skills requirements in several subjects of the school.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10680	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the provision of assistance and guidance in the follow-up scheme is, as a general rule, voluntary, but also to assess whether the State should be able to provide guidance to municipalities/schools which do not provide a training offer of satisfactory quality over time.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10697	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a follow-up mechanism in which additional assistance and guidance are provided to an appropriate number of municipalities/schools based on the development of a broader and more comprehensive set of indicators reflecting the school’s broad societal tasks, as well as the County’s discretionary assessments.’ The Central Party and the Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10714	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess a review of the national quality assessment system and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner. [[NKVS]] The quality assessment system shall maintain the broad knowledge of the school, build on the confidence of the teachers and facilitate increased professional space for action.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further development of the quality assessment system, with the emphasis on capturing a wider range of school objectives and serving as educational support and a tool for those working at school. Teachers, managers, schools and municipalities must be closely involved in this further development.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10753	The Committee shall be consulted on the position to be taken with regard to I. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10767	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the Committee's position at II. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10781	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10798	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10809	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10821	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10838	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Marianne Aasen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the following general principles to underpin a school trust reform: Quality development at school shall be based on few, overall objectives, where the profession is included in the national and local dimension design. The overall level of reporting and documentation requirements at national and local level must be set at a level that does not cost the student’s time and the professional space for action. Objectives and quality indicators shall reflect the broad knowledge view of the school. Learning-promoting governance principles are used as the basis for the quality assessment of the school. Real participation and trust shall characterise cooperation between school owners, school managers and teachers at all levels. Strong professional communities shall be the cornerstone of the school's professional work and development. The professional teacher has procedural responsibilities and a wide range of professional areas of action.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose measures for the quality assessment of schools that discourage increased competition and the ranking of schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10894	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government, in close cooperation with the profession, to develop a trust reform at school that takes care of the school’s broad knowledge, builds trust in the teachers and facilitates increased professional space for action.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10927	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 2, from Henrik Asheim on behalf of the Right Party and the Progressive Party proposal No 1, from Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to make proposals to legislate for Statped services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10955	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the competence of teachers by making special education a compulsory part of teacher training and is a priority in the continuing training strategy ‘Quality competence’.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e10972	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to train all pupils in need of special education for professionals with pedagogical or special pedagogical competence.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11014	The Committee shall be consulted on the position to be taken with regard to I.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11022	The position of the Committee was unanimously endorsed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11025	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on II and III. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11039	It shall be heard about the Committee's position on IV. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11053	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11070	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party proposal No 3, from Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 4–6, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a real right of older people to change caregivers if they are not comfortable with those who provide personal care and care.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11093	SV must also vote in favour of the proposal!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11105	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with employees’ organisations, is asked to investigate and propose a minimum standard of living and competence in nursing homes and home care services based on health and care needs.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put in place a State aid scheme for municipalities wishing to carry out self-determination tests over parts of the home care period for older people with a high level of care needs.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11129	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that professional guides with clear requirements of competence, quality and staffing are developed for the various services of the care of the elderly.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11146	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asking the government to invite municipalities to cooperate for a trust reform in the home services. The design of the individual trials is carried out in consultation with the individual test municipalities, but the central issue is that assessments of best use of resources should be more entrusted to those receiving and providing services and the amount of reporting should be limited to what is strictly necessary.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for models from municipalities providing trust-based health and care services, where target management and reporting are limited to a minimum, to be made available to other municipalities that will implement similar systems.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11186	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left proposal No 3, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No 4, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the explicit right to prevent and curative health services in primary health services, including the right to be on the list of permanent workers, also for paperless migrants.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11216	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the explicit right to prevent and curative health services in primary health services, including general medical services, and for children to be given the right to be on the list of permanent staff.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11233	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the offer to vulnerable groups of paperless migrants, such as children, persons with disabilities, pregnant women and the elderly, is in line with the offer to the population elsewhere.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up mechanisms for the financing of health services for the unincorporated paperless.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11273	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Torgeir Micaelsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Kjersti Tops on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure full publicity about hospital waiting lists and to publish internal waiting lists, time to start the service and to introduce several waiting time measurement points – as a measurement of the total lead time.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11300	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the resolution of the current distinction between clarified and unexplained conditions and proposes to amend the Patient and User Rights Act which ensures that all patients are properly treated.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11317	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an overall assessment of quality and measurement indicators to ensure full transparency on the quality of hospitals, including real and quality assurance waiting times.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-13.ana.ud206e11355	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
