ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e28	Representatives Ingebjørg Amanda Godskesen, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Ruth Grung, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Kjell-Idar Juvik, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Sonja Mandt, Ulf Leirstein and Irene Johansen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The previously temporarily exempted alternate from the Nordland County, Tone-Helen Toften, now takes the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas For the county of Nordland: Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e79	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e84	On behalf of Mr Heikki Eidsvoll, Mr Holmås and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to amend the conditions for setting up and terminating the reception of asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e89	The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e94	On behalf of Groningensrepresentative Geir Pollestad and myself, I would like to make a proposal on cash as a means of payment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e99	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e115	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Siv Jensen, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and Jon Georg Dale will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, which are from Knut Storberget's representative to the state council, Jon Georg Dale, I think – we'll see!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e124	President, I thought I'd keep a little secret! The starting point for my question is that too few jobs are created in Norway. It's one of the major political challenges we're facing. Norway needs more jobs. The proportion of the working population is the lowest in 20 years. This also applies to the younger ones. A third of the population is now out of work, and it's wasting one of our most important resources, namely the people. In 2016, the number of jobs in the private sector decreased. Now we're about four years behind us with a government that's been talking about conversion, just to create jobs in the private sector. Less oil dependence, more sustainability and our need for increased food production argue that there should have been an effort to generate employment growth, especially in non-oil supply chains, which are linked to, among other things. soil and forest. My question, President, therefore goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The food industry and agriculture continue to be the largest continental industry in Norway, with over 120 000 jobs, but unfortunately the number of jobs is falling. This is where the government failed. In Hedmark, we had e.g. Last year, 225 jobs related to food production were lost. Nevertheless, the government in the submitted budget and proposals for settlement include: agriculture has been constantly proposing to cut back on measures that could generate growth, despite the fact that we have a great need to both invest, a follow-up of about 20 billion. kr, and to put in place measures to create jobs. Is the government and the government willing to change course, contribute more to investments and measures to create more jobs in an industry that is being identified as a future industry for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e137	First, for more than one government, it is worth noting that the unemployment rate is now developing positively. Several return to work after a required time in the oil industry. At the same time, the history of the representative of Storberget here on developments in the agricultural sector and in the forestry sector is not correct. This government has reintroduced forest policy. We have a double investment in timber brands, an increase in the infrastructure effort on forest roads by 80 pst. Besides what the previous government did, Knut Storberget was the Council of State. So there's one example that we give the possibility to develop the natural resources that you have around you in the entire district of Norway. In the case of agricultural investment vehicles, which are intended to help more people invest well, to invest in food production, this government and I, as the Council of State, have provided agriculture with the means to increase more than agriculture requires – and the Labour Party is voting in favour of that draft agreement when one delivers it to the Stortinget. Then it is important to bear in mind that productivity development is also important in agriculture. Food production is now higher than ever in Norway – we have recovered and are self-sufficient with lambs for the first time in 10 years. Grain area is now increasing for the first time since 1991. Agricultural income trends are stronger — twice as strong as in other sectors, and much stronger than in the previous government. So there's a lot of things to enjoy. In sum, we need enough people to invest in agriculture. We have. More young people now invest in agriculture than in many years, and we see for example. that among those applying for an investment vehicle, there is a higher proportion now under 35 years of age than before. So this the representative of Storberget can take it easy. Development is much more positive than the last working party directed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e150	It was an answer as expected. You can talk about productivity and economic growth, but the Council of State is running a sector that does not actually create more jobs and is being referred to as the future industry. So we see a significant decline not only in primary agriculture, but also in the whole food industry related to this, which should actually be where we are going to use the labour resources. So now the government has almost four years to put in place the tools that were believed to create job growth in an industry that would not be oil-related. That is why I believe that the government must now answer as to why the measures taken by the government have actually not created more jobs, but have created reductions, not only in agriculture, but also in the private sector as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e157	I've been excavating carnivores and working for years in a slaughterhouse like that. It was one of the funniest and most pleasant jobs I've had. But it's much easier to do that job now than it was ten years ago, because we've automated. This means that there are fewer people who need to do the same jobs, but that means that the profitability of the food industry is strengthened by it. It also means that those who work in this sector have a lower risk of tax damage than they had just ten years ago. Is that stupid? It does not publish. It is not stupid that the food industry uses innovations, initiates new technologies, creates and secures jobs in many places. But we know that agriculture itself has made adventurous efficiency improvements. In 1990 there were 120 daisies in Norway, now it is about. 30 left. It is not a development that we have managed, but a development that has been quite natural, because agriculture has modernised and the food industry has followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e162	It opens for follow-up questions – first Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e167	Under the Stoltenberg government, 360 000 new jobs were created, and under the Solberg government there are less than 30 000 in the private sector. So there is a great need to create new jobs. It's strange that the government is not paying any more attention to recruiting into agriculture, when we have a fine-skinned network of different schemes that build up under agriculture all over the country. What the government has wanted to do while they have been in government is to change, among other things. the Concession Act and the Odel Act, as well as the elimination of various welfare schemes. The consequence of the government's desired policy is that working in the industry is more demanding, as welfare schemes are poorer, and sales are easier. Why does the government want to make it worse to work in the industry and make it easier to sell out?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e172	This government is busy facilitating the creation of more jobs, but it would be nice if the Labour Party looked at the results of the agricultural policy during this period: 18 3⁄4 pst. income growth in agriculture; twice as much as in other groups. Fewer peasants lay down than under the Labour Party's rule. We see a decrease in the number of decommissioned decommissioned decommissioned decommissioned decommissioned decommissioned decommissioned decommissioned decommissioned decommissioned decommissioned decommissioned decommissioned decommissioned decommissioned decommissioned decommissioned Several invest, they invest more heavily, food production is higher than in many years, cereals are increasing. So if the Labour Party had been busy with the results of agricultural policy instead of trying to create the impression that everything is going wrong, it would have been better for the farmer. Because we need first of all, if we're to recruit new people into the industry, that there are young people who believe in her. And it must be done to have when one is righting the Labour Party’s debts to the agricultural sector – a sector that is going well, a sector that will in the future, a sector that has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e177	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e182	The Christian People's Party has called for a rescue operation for the 15-30 farms. For us, it is important to clean up both after the previous government and the current government's treatment of the average feather, because we know that there is a great need to renew the operating buildings. Milk production is the backbone of Norwegian agricultural policy. If we get one farmer to bet, we also get more veterinarians at work, we get more electricians and more builders. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State increase and target dairy investment instruments, which are important in the districts but also important for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e190	Let me first give tribute to both the Christian People's Party and the Left that they have done with this government the necessary steps in the agricultural policy that have led to the results that I referred to for the representative of the Botten. Then it's right that if we're going to have a milk production all over the country, it's led to some of those that are today on an average size, well to reinvest. Now there is the agricultural message for treatment in Stortinget. I have suggested that the Contracting Parties to the Agreement on Agriculture should be given a clearer lead to investment firms. If there are multiples, it provides opportunities to target drug use to a greater extent than it has been today. I can't keep Storting going, but I hope that results. Then I believe the four parties that have made up the majority in this period, can still lay the foundation for a positive development in Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e197	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e202	Fortunately, the main incomes from Norwegian agriculture come from the market, and in the agricultural balances in 2014, 2015 and 2016 the government raised increased market revenue. It wouldn't have been possible if you hadn't gone from the dollar to the dollar in the fall of 2012. Does the Minister of Agriculture now think that it was a wise move for us to improve Norwegian customs protection? That's question No. one. Question no. 2: Norwegian parliamentarians met with EU parliamentarians, where the delegation from the EU Parliament said they were very pleased with the Norwegian offer in the Article 19 negotiations. What is the Norwegian offer when the EU side is very satisfied, and when will we see the result?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e209	I hope we will see the outcome of the negotiations on Article 19 with the EU quite quickly, and I am absolutely sure that we will be able to handle both offensively Norwegian trade interests and, not least, still enjoy good protection for Norwegian agriculture. But then there's reason to remind the representative of the Battle Force Vedum that while a percentage change occurred, an example is increasing. the duty-free quotas for the EU of 2 700 tonnes on cheese. And so it's like increasing the rate of duty increases the pressure on duty-free quotas, and there's a balance that I've said in Stortinget several times before. I know that customs protection is important for Norwegian agriculture, but it is also important for Norwegian agriculture that we have good trade agreements with our closest markets. Norwegian agriculture is dealing a lot with its input factor, so we have to find a balanced solution to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e218	Pål Farstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e223	Not least because of the Left, we have had a positive development in Norwegian agriculture. We have seen many fine traces of the agricultural policy of the left in the last three years, but we also have a significant potential to create jobs in combination between agriculture and other industries – all of which are linked to the questioner: agriculture and tourism, e.g., high-quality niche production linked to food. We have good examples. We have Tingvollost's Kraftkar in More and Romesdal, who became world champion. But I miss a little bit of this. The question is: do we do enough to create new jobs in the interfaces I refer to now? What will the Council of State do, if he acknowledges the issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e228	I tend to agree that we are left with good traces of the agricultural policy of the Left in this period. It shows how important it is that the Left sticks with a good government, with which they can cooperate, and that gives good results. I am very happy that the left-wing representative also sees the benefits. We have a lot of opportunities to exploit agriculture. We previously delivered a message called Garden as a resource – the market as a target, which was about exploiting the additional industries in and around agriculture. We see, for example: now that one of the fastest growing daily stores is local food – 7,7 pst. last year - opens possible. We have just presented a tourism strategy for agro-tourism along with reindeer management, and look at the potential to exploit that potential. There's a lot of public government and the left here can be a few things about, and we're going to follow that in the best way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e235	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e240	People in the north are cursed because of resource ransacks and that it becomes more difficult for local forces to use resources. The proposal to pay the trawls locusts in breeding to coastal communities is insurmountable, while agricultural policy to the Progress Party is in pain. Food production across the country is important – for work, for preparedness, for housing and for our stomachs. But the agriculture in Finnmark is left with less. Then a question forces itself: does the government want fewer farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e247	Last year’s income development in Norwegian agriculture was strongest in the three northernmost counties. The result of agricultural policy was best in the three northernmost countries. So there's reason to rejoice, if one is a representative from North Norway. Income development is not just 18 3⁄4 pst. projected for national averages, but income trends in 2015 were over 15 p.m. in the three northernmost counties – adventurous development, great potential for exploiting the land we have for food production, whether it is in agriculture, reindeer farming, or marine resources. So North Norway is a part of the country that has started an agricultural policy led by this government, which has started a fisheries policy from this government, and the most important thing for North Norway now is that we continue to have a civil plurality in Norway, which means that this development will continue over the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e252	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e258	When I hear the Minister of Agriculture, I think he must have read Alexander Kielland’s novel ‘Hope is light green’. It's a real optimism of an agricultural minister we have, and that's good. The second, about who should rule, etc., I should leave in this context. My question goes to the Minister of Culture, who yesterday had a meeting with the Islamic Council. In the convocation to the meeting, the Council of State writes the following: ‘In view of the attention given to the Islamic Council of Norway in recent days, the Ministry wishes to discuss the role of the Council as a dialogue partner and umbrella organisation for Muslims in Norway.’ The Islamic Council met at this dialogue meeting, perhaps a little surprising with a lawyer if there was to be a dialogue meeting, but that's what it is. After the meeting, the Council of State expressed that she had not been calmed, and my question was, What was it that made the Council of State not calm after the meeting she herself initiated?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e272	I would first of all like to thank the Christian People's Party for giving me the question, because this is a matter of great concern to me. The reason for this is that, after the establishment of the Islamic Council of Norway in 2007, good work has been done for many years to unite Shia and Sunni Muslims in one organ. It's actually impressive. But I'm a little worried about the situation now. This shall be an umbrella organisation to unite Muslims in Norway. An organisation shall contribute to dialogue and to be a bridge builder and shall be a representative body of all Muslims in Norway. I feel that it is not. When I wrote at the meeting call that I wanted to talk about how we should strengthen the work in the future as bridge builders and dialogue partners, to which the representative Syversen refers, one did not want that. The two lawyers who came to my office wanted to talk about this being about equality and working environment law attached to a woman in Nicaragua. This is not about Nicab, it is about a concern that I feel related to a greater division in the Muslim environment and also less opportunities for dialogue with Norwegian society – then I am thinking about civil society and the public – and that is also why there are such clear signals. That is why I am pleased that an almost cross-political expansion is now also clearly expressing concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e284	In the press, I think it was in the newspaper today or yesterday, the Council of State is quoting the following, as I think are wise words: ‘I do not enter and manage internal employment, the organisation must do so myself. But the means that I distribute and that a mass accumulation is behind me, I need to know that they meet the criteria that have been laid down." The question then is: does the Council of State experience after that meeting, and certainly some post-work, that the criteria underlying the application – which have been granted and which, as far as I understand, have been extra funds to fulfil a bridge construction role – have been fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e294	That is what I started a work on last week, with which the lawyers in the department are now in the process, because in the IRN's application they justified their desire for extra funding, among other things. that they wanted to achieve harmony in a diverse society and that they wanted to strengthen their dialogue and bridge construction work. In the 2016 letter of allocation, the Ministry wrote that they will also receive the funds on the basis of their contribution to the prevention of radicalisation. It was a unanimous increase that in 2015 increased the appropriations by 484 000 kroner. They receive 1.3 million. NOK in grants. My answer to the question is that we are now examining whether we believe that the conditions have been met. Now the Islamic Council of Norway had an opportunity yesterday to justify whether they are. I was not reassured, and I come back with a conclusion when we are clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e301	We open for follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e306	I listened carefully to the answers of the Council of State. She was clear that this was not about Nicab, but that it was more about a concern for division in the Muslim environment. One can then be tempted to ask if the Minister of Culture sees it as his task to counter divisions in religious environments. In that case, how will she work to avoid that there will be divisions, if she believes that that's what her task is?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e311	I believe that it is my job to ensure that organisations like this, which is an umbrella organisation for many Muslim organisations, and to which public funds are allocated, deliver on the expectations that the Storting has for operating support. This is not the first time we've had a meeting with the Islamic Council of Norway. The Ministry has had quite close contact with the Islamic Council of Norway lately. These include: therefore I withheld support for them for six months last year, because they did not comply with the requirements of the Stortinget regarding operating aid. I believe that it is my job to ensure that the grant is used as intended by the Storting. I'm going to follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e318	Marianne Aasen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e323	Now we hear that from the point of view of the ministry there has obviously been concern about the Islamic Council of Norway earlier. There have also been concerns in the newspapers about how the Islamic Council of Norway operates, and there have been member organisations that have considered reporting before this case appeared. What studies has the Ministry of Culture done in advance, and how could one be sure that it was right to give the Islamic Council Norway 500 000 extra to dialogue and bridge construction when there has been so much unrest associated with the organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e328	From the Ministry we have had a pretty close contact to create a picture of the organisations we grant. When the government proposed in the autumn of 2015 that the Stortinget should increase the allocation, it was precisely because it saw the need to strengthen the dialogue work and the bridge construction work. As the organisation proved not to deliver on the criteria that Stortinget has actually asked for in its support for funding in 2016, we withheld support. There have also been concerns about the choice of governance and these things, which we have had a dialogue with the organisation about along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e333	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e339	Four years have soon passed, the landfill period is nearing its end. There have been four years of centralisation, centralisation and centralisation. There has been a policy for major social and geographical differences. This could be the last questioning session in which party leader Siv Jensen meets as Minister of Finance, so time is beginning to be quite short in order to meet the electoral commitments. I want to go through some of the election vows. Option Lift No 1: I can guarantee that it will be toll-free throughout the country if I become Minister for Transport, said transport policy spokesman Bård Hoksrud in 2013. Fasit in 2017: There have never been more tolls in Norway. Last week we adopted 21 billion new tolls in this room, a proposal from the State Council of the Progress Party. Option Lift No 2: Before the elections, Finance Minister, then party leader, Siv Jensen said: We want to end this flight of the Norwegian people and demand that the fuel tax be reduced. We propose that the petrol and diesel charges should be reduced by one penny. Fasit in 2017, let me refer to Erna Solberg: In one budget we increased this kind of fees more than the red-green did in eight years. Option Lift No 3: We want government funding for the care of the elderly, promised the Progress Party in 2013. Fasit in 2017: a failed pilot project in seven municipalities. Option Lift No 4: Anders Anundsen had chronicles all over the country about war against bureaucracy. And Siv Jensen was very hard in his sentence. Facit in 2017: 539 new bureaucrats, 12.5 billion. kr in increased use of consultants in the country. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Is the Minister of Finance satisfied with the results, or can we expect more if the Progress Party regains power?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e354	I thank you for the question. I actually sent a text message to the representative Schlagsvold Vedum just before we started, and I asked: Let me guess what you're going to ask about: centralization, centralization, centralization? I basically got right in it. The truth is, under this government, things are going very well all over the country. The Nordic counties, inland countries and several other parts of the country are growing, particularly for export-related district jobs. I think we should take that as a starting point. The challenges we have faced are linked to oil-dominated states, which have lost 50,000 jobs in two years as a result of the severe oil price fall. I believe that the Progress Party has fulfilled quite a few of its electoral commitments. In the case of tolls, it was the day that the Sundvolden platform was a fact, clear that we did not get full penetration to remove all the toll stations in Norway. What we've done is we're going to reduce the amount of toll in a lot of projects. That means that the state has taken a greater part of the bill than would have been the case, and as was the case, under the Central Party of Government. In addition, we have a record investment effort on road investments and other infrastructure investments, and we have started the job that the Senterpartiet allowed to do, namely to reduce the maintenance run across the country. So the transport sector is strengthened under this government, and we notice that people are very pleased with it. In addition, we have now decided that all toll projects outside the major cities will be reduced by 10 pst, and it will come into force this year. In the case of care for the elderly, I am very pleased that we have now set up a probationary system with state funding. It's about looking at whether it's possible to treat the country's elderly in a non-discriminatory manner wherever they live. Not all municipalities give priority to care for the elderly. I have visited one of the projects, in the municipality of Hobøl. The results seem so far to be very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e365	It must almost be a little strange for a finance minister to say that one is satisfied with the pilot project in seven municipalities when it has long been one of the main objectives of the Progress Party to get government funding for the care of the elderly. It must also be strange for a finance minister from the Progress Party to say that one is satisfied after four years when it is 4 billion. For most people, most people have to pay for fees, while the 50 richest people in Norway have received 1 billion. kr in tax cuts. That is a very clear priority. It is not so strange that we say centralisation, centralization, centralization, because the government has been involved in the case after the case. For example, it has been chosen to call police reform a near-police reform – when people across the country feel that places of employment are being laid down. I have noticed that the new Council of State, Per-Willy Amundsen, has also said that it might be the wrong use of words. Will Minister of Finance Siv Jensen also confirm that there has been the wrong use of words to call it near-police when there has been a centralisation reform we have seen?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e372	I am very pleased that more new sick homes are now being built throughout the country than has ever been done. That's necessary, because we're going to need more hospitals in the next few years. The fact that the government has taken a greater part of the bill also makes it easier for municipalities to increase their development. I'm happy about that. As far as tax policy is concerned, this government has reduced taxes and taxes by a total of 21 billion. kr. With regard to the driving lists, they have come out positively – with net relief in car charges of 1.5 billion. kr. It is clear that the drivers notice this. We now also see it in the sales of new cars. As far as the police are concerned, one of the things that this government was going to vote on was getting more policemen out in the streets where people live. This is what provides greater security for the population – that police patrols are present when the need arises. I understand that Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum is most concerned with the closed county office, I'm most occupied with the visible police who are present when people need them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e381	It opens for follow-up questions – first Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e386	It would have dressed the finance minister and the leader of the Progress Party not to have such language as that the Center Party is most interested in closed offices. It basically shows respect for what is happening in Norway, and for what people see as important. But my question goes on tolls. The progress party went to the elections to remove the tolls. People understood it, and people believed it. The Party recognised the rule of action and knew that road investments were included in it. The Progress Party would invest more, but still: ever new toll financing of common, necessary roads around the country. My question is, what went wrong with the Progress Party in the Government Declaration? It had to be something that went fundamentally wrong. And what has the Progress Party now learned in the Ministry of Finance that one did not know before even entered there?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e393	I am very pleased that the representative Lundtigen reminds the voters that only the Progress Party is opposed to toll-funded roads. The center party is too. The Progress Party has been fighting against toll-funded projects for all years, and through our participation in the government, we have reduced the share of toll in the projects by increasing the government funding share. So the share of tolls would be higher if you had added the model that the Centrette used in the eight years they put in government. In addition, the toll ratio will now fall into all projects other than the major cities, this year by 10 pst. So I think we've come pretty far in this area given that we're the only party that's against it, and the voters should notice that. The bigger the Progress Party, the greater the impact we will have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e398	Truls Wickholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e403	In English they have an expression called the proof is in the pudding -- that's how the cake actually tastes, which has something to say. The Progress Party's Siv Jensen has been the finance minister who has ever had the largest annual fee increases. Ketil Solvik-Olsen is the Minister of Transport who has demanded the most tolls, has most tolls and most tolls. The Progress Party cannot have understood its own negotiating position as they entered into negotiations with others – they must have been the worst political analyst of the political parties in Norway. The question is: will we see that the Progress Party is now adjusting to what they are saying to the voters and the public when they know what kind of negotiating power they are facing with the other parties? Can we expect the Progress Party national meeting to say something about maybe they want a little less toll, they shouldn't have them all gone, but they just have a little less, or they don't increase the fees as much as the other parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e408	I hope the National Assembly of the Progress Party will take offensive decisions that will apply over the next four years, because we need to continue to work on expanding the infrastructure in Norway. We need to continue to work to reduce the high tax burden. I am very pleased that we have managed so far to make a positive impact on reducing the overall tax and tax burden by 21 billion. kr. The working party is going to choose to increase taxes by 15 billion. kr. It is a real gift to give to Norwegian businesses and ordinary people at a time when we need to stimulate more people to work, and that companies invest in new jobs. There won't be any more jobs of that. That is why I hope that the Labour Party will not win the election, so that the tax level will rise in the next few years. Then I want to remind the representative of Wickholm that it was this government that removed the hated inheritance fee. We went to the election to remove it because we thought it was a very unfortunate fee that hit families in grief. We have now removed it, and the big question is, what will a new inheritance fee look like if the Workers' Party comes to power?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e415	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e421	21 B.C.E. kr – that is the number the Minister of Finance repeats no matter what she is asked for. That's because she's given tax cuts to many groups; that's right. She has given tax cuts to the richest heirs. She has given tax cuts to those who have the highest income. She has given tax cuts to those who buy expensive luxury cars. But then there's a group that's got tax increases. They're the ones who're being laid off, they're the ones who lose their job. The Government has introduced tax on termination benefits. What kind of priority is it — giving tax cuts to those who buy Porsche Cayenne, and tax increases to those who lose their jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e426	That production is crazy. It is such that the greatest tax cuts that this government has given have gone to ordinary people with very common incomes. An average family has received NOK 8 000 in tax reductions during this period. Then we have refunded the one-off charge on the purchase of new cars, not primarily to enable those who have good advice to buy cheap Porsche Cayenne cars, but to reduce the emissions from car traffic. Then we've made it possible for people to buy safe, emittable cars, and we're starting to see the results. Emissions from the transport sector are declining. The car park will be renewed. It's because ordinary people can afford more and more than ever to buy new cars. I think that is very good, and I think that shows that the tax policy mechanism has been fundamental social. In addition, we have spent the very largest amount of money on strengthening well-being in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e431	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e436	It is almost tempting to say that when I belong to the representative Battle Violence Vedum, it sounds as if we, who have settled in the districts, have settled in a less developed part of the country. But it is quite a fact that there has never been any more effort in the district than in this period: commerce, which the minister himself has stressed, risk capital for both new and existing industries, business simplifications, a formidable tax-free direct coin in Norwegian business, Norwegian jobs, corporate tax, property tax. And the minimum increase in the petrol charge, of which the representative of the Battle of Vedum made a point, of 15 cents, 120 cents a year for an average car, we have jointly used on the other side for net charging lights for the car sector and the transport sector – almost 3 billion. kr. But if there's one area where I'm not as happy with the co-operation with the government, it's the tax differences between self-employed and entrepreneurs who run the districts. The question is, what does the Minister think in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e441	I agree that we have done a lot of good work together with the Christian People's Party and the Left to strengthen business across the whole country. It's also important. We have thousands of district jobs in this country that depend entirely on having their goods exported. So competitiveness means something. Then the tax level means something. Therefore, it has been important for us to reduce the level of taxation so that these companies can strengthen their position and continue to export to the world out there. In the case of entrepreneurs and start-ups, the government has announced that we will come to Stortinget with a proposal on it in the revised budget. We're still going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e448	We go to the next main question – from the representative Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e453	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. We live in a time in Europe where we see populist political movements growing up on all political wings. We know that simple solutions and simple explanations strengthen nationalism. Less cooperation and less cultural understanding across countries is the tone of the European debate right now. Then we see that it's also opposite. After the terror in Paris, the Italian Prime Minister said he would bet many billions on the fight against terrorism, but for each crown he used to protect central building in democracy, he would also use a crown on culture. Lifting culture and education, spreading education, understanding that people are part of a larger whole, understanding the tradition we stand in, understanding the values on which we build our society, is important to spread to people. When we are in the fight we are in, in Europe – Norway is a country that does not have very many castles and national buildings to take care of, we are a nation with few such important national symbols – it is perhaps even more important to lift them. If the Council of State looks out, right in front of her, she can look at the National Theatre, which has been neglected by several political generations. This is a symbol that is important to us. It's also an important national arena for the practice of culture, at a time when we might just have to raise it. My question is, what does the Council of State think about taking care of what she's looking at right out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e464	Thank you for a good question from the Left. Before commenting on the National Theatre, I just want to say that Norway has the presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers this year, and one of the projects we have prioritised from Norway is about how culture should be used as the means of integration. Last week, the Culture Council started out with a lot of people from all over the cultural life in Norway to see how we are making greater use of the power that lies in culture, so that we can succeed better with everyday integration. But I fully agree with the representative Skei Grande that our cultural institutions are important for the formation and also for the understanding of the culture we live in – we have many amazing cultural institutions in Norway. Then I agree with the representative Skei Grande that for many years we have been too little good at taking care of them. One of the examples is the National Theatre. Emergency protection has now been started because it was simply needed for safety reasons. If we look at the theater, it's gone, and it's clear that it's not just emergency security that's important at the theater, but also the long-term rehabilitation. This year, the theatre has been given the means to start the project clearance phase, as it is called, to look at how much is needed for it to continue to be the great built it is, but also for it to be a theatre, an active theater, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e477	Yes, that's the minimum of expectations, that it's actually going to be played in the National Theatre in Norway – that's the minimum of what you can expect. We have two national theatres in Oslo. The only thing that characterizes actors who get the great honor to get a job at National Theatre is that they get sick from their working environment. We have a situation where one of the core institutions throughout our national infrastructure is breaking down. It would have been very exciting to hear if the council had any thoughts about how in all the world we could get so bad out? How can so many governments have committed sin of omission? What kind of mechanisms is it that makes it so bad before it's discovered by the outside world? Can the Council of State commit us to having a theater in the capital of the country that can actually practice art and culture without security measures and disease decay with its actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e484	What I meant by it being an active theater is that we can't just let it go on. Then it just becomes a museum with no content. It's going to be the theater that it is, that makes parents or grandparents want to bring the kids to their first big theater experience right in that theater. It's the pride of the North. It's a building that tells a lot about our national cultural heritage, which has cultural historical value, and therefore it's important for the government that we start emergency security measures, but that we also look at – after KS1, which has been presented for some time back – how we can make sure that there's a building that the actors can work in without getting sick, and that there's a building that the audience can do without getting a brick in their head. So it's clear that this is a job we have to do to rust up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e489	It opens for follow-up questions – first Ola Elvestuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e495	Of course, the national gallery needs to be upgraded, and we've been able to do a lot of work in the past. In 2008, on behalf of Oslo Left, I was at the centre of the negotiations on the National Museum of the West Railway and also the location of the Munch Museum and the Deichman Library. Now we see all three monumental buildings rise. Since 2008, there has been uncertainty about what the National Gallery, today’s building, will use when the National Museum opens in 2020. In December 2014, the Storting asked the government to investigate whether the National Gallery could still be part of the National Museum. A concept selection study has been developed, which in reality only shows that it can be used by the National Museum or by the Art History Museum. The National Gallery is a central building in Oslo. This uncertainty should now be brought to an end. Will the Council of State now be able to remove this uncertainty and actually clarify that the National Gallery should continue to be part of the National Museum and show great Norwegian art?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e506	Thank you for the question from Elvesuen. As the representative of Elvesuen knows, we are waiting for a KS1 to go through and quality assurance of the figures that the KVU points to. It was supposed to come around Christmastime. It is unfortunately a little delayed. I can't help but say here and now that we look forward to getting it on the table to go through and see what the building can be used for. Then, together with the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation will come to a conclusion on what we think we should do further, and at what rate this should happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e513	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e518	There is no doubt that the National Theatre is a national pride in an incredibly embarrassing constitution. The things in the last and the stories about how dangerous it is to work there for the actors, and how dangerous it is actually to stay there for the guests, make an impression on us, and there is no doubt that now something has to be done. Unfortunately, these stories are not new, they have been told for a long time, but this government has chosen not to address this matter as many other matters. Every year we see a cultural budget that is down-prioritized to everything else, in a time when we should focus on culture and art, which is the bond between us as human beings, and which creates a common we. In 2012, the then Cultural Policy Spokesman for the Right, Olemic Thommess, said that the National Theatre must be made capable in the best possible way. We need a continuous renovation. It has to happen now. Four years have passed without the government having addressed this problem. Will the Council of State now ensure that there is money in the revised budget or in the state budget for 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e527	It's a big and complicated project we're talking about – the rehabilitation of the National Theatre itself. Now we see that the work on emergency protection is in progress. It's important. But it's not right that this government hasn't done anything. We allocated money in the 2017 budget, so that we can now start the clarification phase to look at which concept to choose, and then the government will decide on it. This is a matter that we are concerned about both to ensure good working conditions for employees and to ensure that it is still one of our cultural treasures that we are proud of, and where the audience will experience many amazing theatre performances in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e532	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e537	It is undoubtedly a big and complicated project, but I think we might admit that nothing has been done here in very many years. Many governments have pushed this ahead of themselves, including this government. For that time, in 2012, both KVU and KVS were started. In 2014 the draft selection inquiry was delivered, and in 2015 the quality assurance was delivered. So it's in place. The council says we've allocated 2.5 million. NOK which would start with a clarification phase. But «clearance phase» means even more bureaucracy. If it had been will now, we would have been doing this project. I wonder, what will the Council of State do for the government to make a final decision, so that the National Theatre can emerge with the dignity it will have, as one of our foremost and most important cultural institutions, to the 125th anniversary of 2025?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e542	I agree that something needs to be done, and that is why we granted money in 2017 for this clarification project. The clarification phase shall concreteise the project and say something about the costs and the overall framework. Here it's also talking about that we have to shut down the theater for some time, maybe for several years. It is a worthy building that is very extensive and complicated to rehabilitate, not least to enable it to remain a modern theatre – not just a stage carpet that has been painted, as it used to be. We're going to make sure that we get a scene and a theater that is functional to our standards today. Once the clearance phase is done away with, we're more precisely defined what the needs are, and what the possibilities are, and then we're going to start with the full project.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e549	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e554	Then just the question remains: when do we start rehabilitating the National Theatre?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e559	That's a very good question. When the clearance phase is over and the preliminary project is completed, which is required by the State, a last KS2 known to the representative Serigstad Valen must be submitted, before the Stortinget can finally say yes or no to the cost framework, because it is now important to present a project in which you have clarity as to what the costs should be. I can assure the representative Serigstad Valen that I am impatient. Like both the actors who are employed there, and the audience, I want to have a theatre that is functional and according to our standards today, so that we can preserve the amazing construction in the best possible way. So I hope it gets in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e565	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e570	My question is to the Minister of Finance. Instead, she would not say anything about the unemployed who have been taxed on their termination benefits, but it is not the only group that has had to pay dearly to finance the government's redundancy tax cuts, which have mainly gone to the country's rich and prosperous. Another group that is hard hit is the many hundreds of families that were only taken from several tens of thousands of dollars each on average in 2016, as a result of the government's cut in the children's supplement. My question is, what does the Minister of Finance have to say to these families now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e579	Again I refute the claim from SV that this government has spent the large amount of money on tax cuts to the rich. That's not right. We have used most of the space for action to strengthen the road appropriations, the local economy and the hospital budgets and to build the country, quite simply. Then we've also found room to reduce taxes and taxes. Most of the money we've spent on tax cuts has gone to ordinary people. An average family has received NOK 8 000 in tax reductions. Some charges have been cleaned up, and they have been removed. Yes, we have also reduced the wealth tax, because we want to remove the injustice that lies in the property tax, by allowing non-resident owners of Norwegian companies not to pay, while Norwegian owners have to pay. We are committed to facilitating the creation of more jobs across the country so that more people can get to work. That's the most important thing we do. We have behind us – hopefully – a situation where we were hit hard by the fall of oil prices of the time. This led to the loss of 50,000 jobs in oil-related industries. These jobs have come back elsewhere, mainly in the private sector, but also in the public sector. That's good. Now all the forecasts show that the economy is on its way up again: growth is on its way up, unemployment is on its way down. I'm glad. Then I would like to remind the representative Serigstad Valen that the misreform he himself referred to was put before the Stortinget and adopted by the Stortinget under the red-green government. Then, when we took over the government, we discovered that there were many unsocial distortions in the reform that we proposed to correct. So the truth is, there would have been too many of the bad guys if we hadn't fixed up any of the skepticisms that were left after the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e588	It's just a macroeconomic outlay that the poor people probably appreciate very much, it's probably instructive for them to hear about it. But what I was asking was what the Minister of Finance had to say to the families hit by the Minister of Finance's cut. This is the second time this is happening today: I am asking about the unemployed, and in response I get how social the Norwegian car charges are. I'm asking about misdemeanors, and I'm getting loans for property taxes. The finance minister is a little bit of an armed bandit, it's a bit random what kind of answers come out. Then we will see what the Minister of Finance answers to this, for she will have another chance: the Minister of Finance has provided two social security settlements, pension settlements, which are so bad that the party of the Advance Party, the Government Party of the Advance Party, rebelled on the Stortinget and voted against. That's because a lot of pensioners in two consecutive years have had lower purchasing power. What does the Minister of Finance have to say to this group, which has had to pay dearly for the policies of the Progress Party? And here I don't want the standard answer about married and cohabiting pensioners who have received more. I want to hear what the Minister of Finance has to say to those pensioners who have had lower purchasing power. And then we'll see if the finance minister answers the actual question this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e593	It is quite right that both wage earners and pensioners have experienced a decrease in purchasing power as a result of wage-fixing in the last year. There is a consequence of the economic situation in the Norwegian economy. The government has been busy compensating pensioners in other ways. Then Serigstad Valen must hear me say again that we have strengthened the pensioners' economy by reducing the curtailment of the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners, which means that a pensioner couple has increased their pension by NOK 8 000. In addition, we have, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, increased the pension for lone minimum pensioners not only once, but two times. In addition, the average pensioner has received NOK 3000 less in taxes over the last few years. So all in all, the pensioners have been compensated for as a result of this, but through the tax bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e598	There will be follow-up questions – first Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e603	While those who can afford Porsche Cayenne have received hundreds of thousands of grants, others have to separate their used car. Yesterday I was contacted by one in Finnmark. She is unemployed and has lost the social benefit of 600 kroner per month for the use of a car. It kept to her petrol consumption, and it's not for everyone that bus is an alternative in this country. She is one of many who struggles more to make ends meet with this government and the policy of the Progress Party. Because when the finance minister's budgets give more to those who have the most, and less to those who have the least, the differences in the country increase, and more people get a more demanding life. Then I have to ask if it is a deliberate government policy to prevent the incapacitation of people in the districts from acting even when health is good one day – that you should not have a social life or be able to drive to your medical class.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e608	Differences in Norway are smaller than in the vast majority of countries; in fact, only two countries in the world have lower differences than we have. It's a force that we have to take care of. So it's simply wrong when the representative Bergstø tries to present it as that the differences in Norway are increasing. Then I fully agree that it is important to have good welfare arrangements, especially for those who fall outside for different reasons. For this reason, the government has been committed to strengthening many of the mechanisms associated with these groups in order to have a social life and to be able to live well where they live. Once again, the claim that we've given the most to those who have the most already. So that's not right. The big money has gone to boost well-being, and it's been going to reduce the tax on ordinary people. I agree that the bus is no alternative over the whole country. That is precisely why we have spent more money building up the roads, reducing the maintenance run and reducing car charges, so that it is possible to keep a car even for those who have very common incomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e615	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e620	The economic difference between people is increasing, the reality shows that. It is quite unworthy that the government, with support among others. from the Christian People's Party, reduced the need-tested child supplement for those who are unfit. That's a very good example of government priorities. But my question is related to refugees. The Social Security Act was introduced on 1 January 1967 by Prime Minister Per Borten and Social Minister Egil Aarvik. We also received a minimum pension for housewives and seagoing business without income. The center party is proud of it. The law was amended in 1971 so that refugees were considered to be in a special position and thus also received an age-limited minimum pension. What is the matter today is that the government will break this basic attitude by not automatically getting the minimum pension when they cross the age line. Do not refugees really stand in a special position, as we have had the 1971 law?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e629	Again: It is not true that there are large, increasing differences in Norway, rather on the contrary. There are small differences in Norway. However, one of the reasons why there are differences is, among other things: the great immigration we've had in the last twenty years. Nor can Lundtigen talk himself out of it. What the government has now proposed in terms of tightening up the refugee benefits is about something as simple as treating refugees in Norway as all other groups. We believe that that is a healthy principle, and that was the basis of the refugee agreement adopted by the Stortinget. I believe that we need to tighten up these arrangements. There has to be a connection between acquiring rights in popular order before getting things out of popular order. It is a fundamental principle that must be founded. It must also apply to refugees. Therefore, it is important that we focus heavily on integration policy, facilitate language learning, get into work and become self-sustaining, build up rights and thus benefit from our welfare systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e637	Tore Hagebakken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e642	Progress Party – Higher Government has increased the maximum price in kindergartens, has removed free healthcare for chronically ill, injured and multi-disabled, and has thus cut the child supplement for disabled people. The list of non-social cuts is very long. Then it helps a little bit with tax cuts, because for ordinary people it is quickly eaten. Why does the government hit people who are in a difficult situation, in this way? Isn't this very unsocial? I ask the Council of State: is she willing to take a little ice of sea critique that this is a policy that is hardly worthy of a rich country like Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e649	I believe that a rich country like Norway is going to take care of the good welfare arrangements we have, and one of the main reasons why we are going to do so, is to ensure that everyone gets to take part in the welfare development we have, and in the income development that Norway has had as a result of selling oil and gas and making a lot of money on it. That's why the government adds, as we have also presented in the perspective communication, not only that we should take care of our welfare systems, but strengthen them in the future. It's about having good arrangements that guarantee everyone, no matter what background they have. The garden tray is wrong when he presents what we have done in relation to kindergartens, as a weakening of the arrangement for those who have little before. That's rather the opposite we've been doing. So we've strengthened the possibilities for low-income families to afford to have their children in kindergarten, and I think that's fundamental social. Tore Hagebakken and I can afford to pay NOK 100 more for a nursery, I believe that is quite reasonable, and we spend the money on those who cannot afford it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e656	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e661	It becomes a little interesting when you use the question of the Council of State to attack parties who sit in the hall, who are not constitutionally responsible, but let go. But let me take the time to come up with a question. First of all, it is the majority who have entered into budgetary conciliation with us, who have made sure that the lone minimum pensioners, the group of pensioners who have the worst income, have received $8,000 in two years. It is the majority that is now, who had to correct the unpreforming reform that the red-green majority presented to the Storting, with huge holes for many. My question relates to inequality – because that was the real starting point for this issue – and in the light of the point of view: How does the Council of State think that having minor differences affects the overall economic picture of Norway in the long term? Is it important, in her opinion, not to have major inequalities in a society?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e670	I totally agree. A society of small differences is also a society of greater harmony. We now see in very many other countries where the inequality has been increasing for a long time, that there is also greater rebellion, greater unrest, and there are consequences in elections as well. It is easier to create good schemes when we do what we do here in Norway, finance it widely, so that everyone can take part in the good welfare arrangements we have. I think we should take care of that. One of the positive features of the perspective communication, which, after all, is moving forward in the future, is that it shows that we are in quite a good position in Norway as opposed to many other countries. Where other countries are now working to reduce their debt, we are looking forward to a period in which we can not only secure our welfare systems but also strengthen them. The prerequisite for doing that is that more people have to work, more people have to work more, and we have to spend taxpayers' money more efficiently. This government has started working on it, and we have to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e679	Let's move on to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e684	This perspective message is a fantastic display in double communication. It draws the road towards 2060 and says that Norway has a ‘good starting point’, because ‘we have made good choices’, as the Minister of Finance said now, we have done in Norway. The amazing thing is that as we have done in Norway, the Progress Party has been largely opposed to all crossroads – they wanted to sell the oil at the root, opposed the pension reform, opposed the central wage formation system, which is now being praised, etc. etc. The sum of the good choices we've made is the Norwegian model. That is what Siv Jensen thought before the previous elections was in the way of the Norwegian people. What we see is that when we're going to go towards 2060 and maintain high welfare, have people in work and be a productive society, it's these core qualities it's all about: trust, small differences. It is unlikely that we have a finance minister as a law-enforcement minister of small differences and high trust, and in the perspective message describes the importance of having it as a starting point, when she has at the same time a party program where she says that it is not a political task to combat rising wage differences, and leads a tax policy that gives it a promise from the Right: intermediaries and lower incomes should get tax cuts – but the highest tax cuts have gone to them with the most from before. The message reads: ‘Small differences allow many to take part in wealth and also contribute to a high level of confidence both in each other and in public authorities.’ And on the other hand, ‘It may increase the will for innovation and innovation.’ The question for a Minister of Finance who goes to work every day and has a programme that says it is not a political task to combat differences is: Is the party programme the basis for the work she is doing, or is it a political task? And what does the Minister of Finance think to do to combat these differences, which are so important for Norway to be equipped to go the way that we now have in front of us?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e705	The fact that we generally agree that we should continue to have a society based on trust and little differences, I think Gahr Støre and I can agree on. But that doesn't mean that it's the Labour Party's response to all the societal challenges that will be the basis for us to continue to take care of it. It's e.g. So if you look at a lot of what's in the perspective statement, our future well-being is going to be about three important things: It's going to be about how we handle immigration policy. We are now managing the results of 20 years of immigration policy in which the Progress Party has not had an influence. It is going to be one of the major challenges ahead, because very many of those who have come to Norway during this period are not working. If we can get that part of immigrants coming from African countries, from some Eastern European countries or from Latin American countries to get as high an employment share as Norwegians, it means 90,000 more people employed. It says something about the lack of integration policy that has taken place before this government. The second main track we have to pursue is to continue to have a competitive tax system. This government has spent four years reducing the overall tax burden because we wanted to facilitate the competitiveness of business. Gahr Støre himself has announced that over the next four years – if he becomes Prime Minister – he will increase taxes. There are two completely different road choices and two completely different ways of financing the future. The third area is reform. This government has implemented many of them, because it is about making better use of taxpayers' money. I saw an interview with Gahr Støre where he said there was a risk that many of the reforms the government had now started would be reversed if he became prime minister. One example of which there is uncertainty is New Roads AS, which is about building roads cheaper, better and faster than before. Is it really that the Labour Party will reverse good reforms? I don't understand this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e716	That was the fourth time the Minister of Finance didn't answer the question, but then we get to base it. What this perspective message is drawing a picture is that in a few years' time we'll have a hole in the budget. It can be big or small. Then we believe it is an honest thing to say that maintaining a Community-funded welfare system, where everyone is contributing, is the right way to go. The Minister of Finance has a partner in the Prime Minister to cut taxes by 25 billion. kr for the next four years. If we take those tax cuts, that means that the entire action space has to go to tax cuts, because the finance minister himself writes: we have about 6 billion. kr in freedom of action to use each year. So we're going to have more to defend, more to go, more to national transport plan, more to older people, more to other important purposes. Then the question is, where do the cuts come from? So there's two more questions for the finance minister: how much does she think about cutting taxes in the next period? Can she give us an estimate of that? I've been honest and told what our policy is. Can she give an estimate? Then comes question 2: Where does it have to be cut to clear room for it? The action space is not large enough, and the oil money cannot continue to be used in the over-measure that has been done in the last four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e727	I believe I answered the questions in my previous answer. It is possible that Gahr Støre does not like my answers, but it is a completely different matter. The point is, when we're going to evaluate how we're going to get action space in the future, you can choose the Workers' Party's recipe, where to increase taxes. Then taxes must be increased much more than by other means, because there is a loss of efficiency in increasing taxes. So that's a bad idea – also because it weakens the competitiveness of Norwegian business. The reforms that we are now embarking on will help us to use the money smarter. New roads, for example, have said that they can both build their road portfolio of 12 years instead of 20 and save billions of dollars to do so. There are billions that can be set free for other tasks. If we systematically use taxpayers' money more wisely in all areas, we will release space for action to strengthen well-being. I understand that the Labour Party doesn't like to think like that, but that's how we have to think for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e737	Follow-up questions are given – first Marianne Marthinsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e742	The Minister of Finance is busy talking about reforms. Reforms are great if they help us actually use the community's resources better. Now we have e.g. a railway reform on the stairs, which will cost us only this year more than 500 million. kr in increased red tape costs. Then came the perspective message on Friday. It is a communication from the Ministry of Finance, a communication presented by the Minister of Finance. Then it's particularly interesting, when we're discussing reforms, to read from that message: ‘The 2011 pension reform strengthened the economic incentives to continue to work. The reform is working and employment for those over 62 years of age in the private sector has increased.» There is little doubt that the pension reform is more important — much more important — for Norwegian government finances than all the reforms that this government has undertaken together. The Minister of Finance party was in its time the only party that voted against the pension reform, so now that the Minister of Finance writes that the reform works, is my simple question: Is the Progress Party now in favour or still against the pension reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e754	To remind the representative Marthinsen of what the Progress Party said in its time, when the pension reform was dealt with in Stortinget: We agreed with a lot of the features that were pulled up, but we did not agree on everything. One of the major points of disagreement, which is still there, is the underregulation of pensions. But we agreed that there were a good deal of important steps taken in the pension reform, which now contributes to people being able to stand longer in work, not least to adjust their life expectancy. What we have done in this period, on the other hand, is to listen to many of those who are now approaching retirement age, who want to stay longer in work, by removing some of the special age limits and adjusting to this, so that it will be possible to offer their workforce a little longer. I think that's good. It's basically good, especially because the retirement age in Norway is quite low, and we're now seeing a situation where we're going to live longer, people want to stay longer in work. Then we have to make arrangements for it, and we don't have to work against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e761	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e766	If there's an exercise the government councils of the Advance Party have learned, it's to be incredibly satisfied with everything. They're incredibly self-satisfied, everything's so amazing and so brilliant, everything's going so well, all the reforms are so successful, even though it's demonstration trains all around Norway that say the opposite. Not least, we now hear that there has been such an enormous increase in efficiency thanks to these reforms that the government has implemented and that it makes Norway better rusted. But if you start reading from those who are following the numbers, you'll find that. The Riksrevision with a report a couple of weeks ago that pointed out the fact that the state has spent 12.5 billion dollars. kr for consultants in 2015. We have seen this week how the growth of the central police force has increased violently – in the bureaucracy in Oslo – while out-of-offices have not been given the corresponding growth. Today we see on the front page of the Evening Post that it has been approx. 60 million. kr more in non-journal POD. Are these good results or are they bad results, Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e773	I think the results are right. It's nothing new that Battle violence Vedum is against reforms. So there were people in this room who were against us getting color TV, there were people in this room who were against us buying bread and milk after five o'clock, there were people in this room who were against having mail in the store – I think that includes Battle Violence Vedum's own party – despite the fact that there have been welfare reforms that have made people spend less time than they would do before. So reform is a good thing, especially at a time when we are digitizing society more. Then the results for general government are quite good. The government is moving workplaces out of Oslo, so what you see is that the growth is now going to be decentralised, not in the Oslo area. In addition, the biggest growth we have been able to choose to do so — in the police, in the schools, in health and care services. So that's exactly in line with the promises we made. We're getting more policemen out in the districts. It ensures people's everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e782	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e796	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health and Welfare, has been withdrawn. Question 2, from the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum to the Minister of Defence, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e812	From the representative of Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health and Welfare: ‘The Managing Director of Health Vest has advised the Board of Directors of the Board meeting on 4 April 2017 to join the proposal of Health Fonna that emergency surgery in Odda Hospital be terminated. Odd hospitals are continued as emergency hospitals with emergency functions in internal medicine, radiological services, laboratory services, scheduled surgery, night shift anaesthetics and outpatient clinics. Would the Council of State intervene and ensure emergency surgery in Odda if such a decision were taken by the Board of Directors?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e819	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e827	From the representative Trygve Slagsvold Vedum to the Minister for Defence: ‘I have said in the past that transparency is important to me. And then I don't mean openness as a honorary word, but real openness." That's what the Secretary of Defense said during a speech in Oslo Military Society. It is well known in the defense that the majority of the trade-military process is completed in the month of April/May. Is the government afraid that their down-priority of land power will be such a controversial theme in the election campaign that it will continue to keep the professional-military assessments secret after the elections?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e834	This question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e842	‘In the agreement on police reform, the majority of the population, on the initiative of the Workers’ Party, gave ‘a promise to the inhabitants’ to ensure real local involvement in the content of the service following any changes, such as the closure of the Länsmannskontoret. What has the Council of State done to ensure that the Directorate of Police informed the municipalities of the possibility of requiring a written document from their chief of police on what they can expect to ‘get back’ after changes, how has the Directorate of Police come forward, and how many municipalities have such an agreement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e849	The agreement on the police reform involved a comprehensive process involving the municipalities before a final decision on the service structure of the police and officers' seat could be reached. Some people experience that the process is too slow, while others believe that it is going, and has gone, too quickly, and that the municipalities have thus not had enough time. As I suppose the representative Awake! should be well-known, the perception of speed may be very different. Police are now undergoing their greatest reform in the history of the establishment. At the same time, improved governance, new forms of work and new technologies must be introduced. In all the changes, the police must also deal with the main agreement and the right to co-determination of employees. Many police officers have been very busy in the municipalities since the last summer. The police officers have spent a lot of time outside the municipalities, but they also report that time does not always go by. I'm asking for an understanding that this kind of process will take some time to land, and that the department also needs rest. There is no need for police officers to enter into binding agreements on single solutions until the overall picture is in place. Both as the State Council and as the Police Directorate, I have clear expectations that the police officers will work closely with the municipalities in the future. Police contacts shall be in place by 15 June of this year and the work of the Police Council shall be further developed. Local cooperation shall seek to establish more concrete and mutually committed cooperation. The work has been carried out in some places, including: in Malvik municipality of Trøndelag police district, where a binding agreement has been reached. It's only when we've made a final decision on the service structure, that is. once the review procedure has been completed, the police officers know how the service structure to be established is to be established. The handling of complaints will be completed before the summer holiday. When the process we adopted in this Chamber is completed in June 2015, municipalities will have their binding agreements on a rolling basis. The aim is for the new organisation to provide better, more flexible use of resources, so that the overall service provision is improved in terms of both quality and local presence. This applies to both public service, prevention, accessibility and preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e862	That was a long answer, maybe a little bit concrete for what I'm really asking about. I have the greatest understanding that this can take time. My main concern is that there are almost no municipalities in this country who know the point of the settlement of a promise to the inhabitants. I'm busy making sure that this information reaches all the municipalities in the country, so that they know what some demands they can make. So I think both the spokesmen and the inhabitants understand that it can take time. Can the Minister of Justice guarantee to Stortinget that the information about a promise to the inhabitants, which was entirely decisive for the Labour Party in the conciliation, reaches out to all the municipalities in the country – that means both advisers and spokesmen – so that they know what possibilities they have to demand a written agreement with their police master?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e873	I can assure the representative Awake! that we are following the Storting decision. The police directorate is following up further towards the police districts, but one must understand that this is a large and comprehensive process. When considering a different structure, for which the content and consequences are not yet known, it may be difficult to complete this work before it is actually the case. But now these matters are being dealt with in the department. I consider the complaints that have come. They will be completed before summer, and it is quite natural that the follow-up of the municipalities is seen in the context of this when final decisions are taken. I can assure the representative that this point in the agreement will also be followed up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e878	I'm glad, and we're going to follow it carefully, because this point is and becomes very important. We agree on this agreement, and there are many municipalities and residents who are disappointed that their Länsmannskontoret will be closed down. It is then important that we say that the provision in these municipalities should be better and not worse. But I get a little bit of concern if it's such that one has to wait until the total structure is completely clear before one can make an agreement. For example, in my municipality of Tokke, where the Länsmannskontoret is most likely to be closed, both I, the spokesperson and the residents expect us to have a better police force. At least I would encourage you to start working with these agreements, police officers and local authorities to engage in a clearer dialogue, so that one is well rigged when it's clear. As it is now, there is a lot of uncertainty, and municipalities experience not getting answers from either the police officer or the directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e883	It is enough that it is not directly unnatural that in a reform process, and especially in the current phase, there may be some uncertainty. This applies both to the police themselves with regard to the reorganisation that is taking place, and of course to municipalities and to the cooperation the municipalities should have with the police. So I think it's important to remember that we have some obligations at the bottom, and they're going to be followed up. If you take the example of Tokke, it's, as I understand it, one of those who's been charged, and then the final decision, which I can't predict from, will be very crucial for the cooperation between the police and the Tokke Municipality in the future. So here you have to see the processes in context. What I can assure the representative of is that we will follow up the decisions taken by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e893	‘It is decided that the arrest in Sandvika shall be closed. Instead, arrestees are to be driven to Greenland in Oslo. It's not very long, but there are many who will have to be transported to Oslo. Today, the Sandvika arrest warrants 1,600 arrestees a year, and according to Budstikka, this will result in 55,000 additional kilometres of transportation for the police. Is there a proper use of police time, and why should this arrest be closed when the police station is due to be in Sandvika?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e900	In order to implement the establishment of new police districts in police reform, the Police Directorate has provided police districts with frameworks and guidelines for their work. The detention function is part of this establishment and is one of the functions assigned to national standardisation. The organisation of the arrest function by the police district of Oslo supports the objectives of the near-police reform, including the key objective of establishing more robust and competent police districts. The organisation of new police districts and the location of different functions are part of the local process in the police districts and are based on local overall assessments within the applicable guidelines. The number and location of arrests are among the processes carried out in the police district and are within the responsibility of the police chief. New Oslo police district will have seven police stations, and in relation to geography and crewing, having one arrest in the district is the most cost-effective. It shall also contribute to ensuring proper catch management in accordance with the applicable legislation. In the context of the organisation, arrest warrants are transferred to Greenland and the costs related to employees, operations, maintenance and detention facilities are thus reduced. This gain is considered to be greater than the disadvantages, the time it takes to transport detainees to Greenland. The transfer of detainees from the Sandvika Police Station to the arrest in Greenland and to Oslo Dinghuis could contribute to the release of more police officers and women to the patrol. Another central aspect of the district’s local assessments has been the placement of the arrest in connection with joint criminal proceedings. In Greenland, there are investigators and lawyers who immediately take up the further investigation when someone is apprehended. In the future, patrols from Sandvika and Asker will deal with the same routines as other police stations in the district.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e911	Thanks for the answer. The Minister of Finance, who is also the party leader for the Minister of Justice and Security, said just now that the reform of the police is about more people going out on patrol where people live. This change actually leads to 55 000 kilometres of driving – if we assume that crime is at the same level year after year in Asker and Bærum – in cars to and from, between Sandvika and Oslo. In its reply, the Council of State uses honorary terms such as ‘near police reform’, ‘robust police districts’ and ‘cost-effectiveness’ and that time is to be freed for patrol services. But I feel that this means that Asker and Bærum police districts, as they were before, and now part of the Oslo police district, are losing patrol power. For those engaged in this transport, there can be no patrol, and those responsible for the arresting officers in Sandvika are transferred to the Oslo Police Chamber. Then I wonder, Does the Council of State agree that police force is being lost?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e920	The answer is no, and I think I made it quite clear in my answer. With more effective arrangements in the use of police resources, the point is to free personnel — employees, police officers and women — to just patrol, to be in patrols, and to provide even better police services out there. Then I see that the representative uses a kind of district policy perspective when she talks about Asker and Bærum's proximity to Greenland. It is difficult to see in this context, and it may not be the best example of the issues raised with regard to the reform of the police. Other parts of the country have much greater distances to deal with than the problem is being addressed in this issue. But I'm basing an effective and good resource development from the Oslo police district, and we see that here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e927	I would ask the Minister to be cautious about being arrogant on behalf of 210,000 people who live in Asker and Bærum, and who also want the most out of their police resources, like everyone else in all of Norway. That being said, perhaps the Council of State is also aware that Asker is going to fight with the Smoke and Hurum, who will then exchange the county and also exchange the police district. Then the police district gets a lot bigger, and it's going to have an additional number of miles. Those who look after the detainees in the arrest are not police. They're detainees. They're not on patrol, and they're not going out on patrol. But those who are going to drive the transport and handle the arrest and the paperwork that actually belongs to, at the Greenland police station, could do something else and save much more time if they had had a arrest much closer. Why does the Council of State not feel that it has a loss for the police to organize in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e936	I see that the Aasen contributes – I kept on saying that clarifying what I see is a problem in the Storting approach to police and police work, just wanting to be detailed in such a way as to put the police in a worse position to be effective in the use of their resources and to provide, collectively, great police force. I'm sorry. I think we should assume that the chief of police has better conditions to make police professional judgements about how these resources are used. When the feedback from the Oslo police district is that these are sensible ways of setting up the resources, and thus we get more capacity for other important work, including patrolling, I think that there are good answers that should at least not be the starting point for us, politically, in any way, to override the political evaluation. Then the same principles must also be applied in all other police districts in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e946	‘The conclusion of the Committee on Arms that the police should not carry weapons is inter alia based on the fact that the police should have confidence in the citizens. After thorough analysis of crime and the threat of terrorism, the selection found that there is no clear need for general armaments of the Norwegian police. Governments have previously wanted weapons. Has the government changed its vision after reading the selection's professional assessments, or does it want to work for armaments?'
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e953	I have the impression that the Armaments Committee has provided a very solid investigation. The investigation provides a good basis for assessments of the type of armed arrangements that the police should have to meet today’s and tomorrow’s challenges. I suggest that the committee's investigation be sent to broad consultation in the near future. When the hearing bodies’ input is available, a decision will be taken on how to proceed with the matter. Then I ask for understanding, because it's quite exactly a week since I received the investigation, so I haven't read it – it's possible that there will be teachers in the Easter. But I think one should in any case be open to the submissions and assessments contained in the sample's investigation. I have no firm view of this personally, in the sense that my political party has a different view from the majority in this big business, but I think we should add up to a broad debate on this. There are strong interests and strong professional reasons for a different assessment from the one used by the sample in its investigation, but this is a debate that we should take on a large scale in society. I think that with the mandate and with the good work that has been done, we have a good basis for taking that discussion, taking that debate, and then we get to wait until we draw that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e962	I have so far understood that the Council of State has not been able to read everything from the selection's work, and I appreciate that he is honest about it. I also think it's good to have a wide audience and a wide discussion about such important questions. To follow up, I have a question of a more principled nature. What comes out of the selection's work is, among other things: that Oslo police districts practise a system of permanent armed UEH patrols. The selection itself points out that they do not take a position on the basis of which the system is based, but there is a fundamental question of whether or not a believer is allowed to operate with permanently armed UEH patrols, and my question is simply whether or not the Minister of Justice thinks it is legitimate to have permanently armed UEH patrols in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e969	I record that this issue has been raised, and we will look into it more closely. Of course, we're not going to operate in any way that might seem to conflict with the basis we have. I record that there is already a discussion going on. I have recorded that one of the parties in this room, the Left Party, was out in the media relatively quickly after the presentation took place, where it was signaled by the Left Party to open up point-arming. I think that all of us should benefit from the discussion that will come, listen to the answers that will come – for example, the Joint Police Association. a very clear position – listen to the arguments that emerge there. So nothing is clear, but personally I have a different starting point than what is the selection conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e980	I thank you for your answer. I have another question: link a find from the selection's side. What they're pointing out is that there are several districts where the officers are asking for empty gun casings in the belt on the uniforms, something that can help give the audience the impression that the police are armed. The selection itself points out that this is a practice that violates the uniform regulation. My question is really just what the Minister of Justice thinks about such a practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e987	As I have already said in my first and, to some extent, in other articles, we will be carefully examining the investigation from the Committee on Arms. If it is claimed to be found there that, according to practice, we have not followed up correctly, then of course we will take care of it and follow it up. All of this will come out at the hearing fairly quickly, and then we will have that discussion, as well as the discussion of ‘progressive storage on the body’, which is one of the minority proposals in the sample, and the issue of point-to-point weapons. Then, of course, we will also agree that today's practice is within the framework of the legislation to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e997	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice and Defence the following questions: ‘Where the police are to prevent violence and conflicts described, inter alia, in the evening post on 25 March, it may be an important tool to ban some in specific areas. However, according to current legislation and case-law, there shall be so many criminal records and such a large-scale process before anyone can be imposed a residence ban for prevention purposes that this is rarely used. Will the Council of State better facilitate the use of a restraining order to prevent violent incidents by the police?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e1006	The government has noticed the media headlines of ever-increasing violence among young people. The prevention of this type of violent crime is a very important topic. It is essential to intervene as early as possible, and before violence takes place. The government wants to facilitate the police’s use of the necessary means of prevention. As the representative points out, the possibility of imposing a residence ban may be a tool for the police. The current legislation already opens for this. A person may be subject to a residence ban where there is a risk of violence as part of a mutual settlement between groups. The prohibition shall protect outside persons, not the members of the groups. For persons under 15 years of age, a separate rule applies. They may be banned in specific places if there is reason to believe that the stay there increases the risk of the youth committing crime. Furthermore, a person may be banned from visiting. A restraining order shall include, inter alia: protect individuals from criminal offences by another person. The restraining order may prohibit any person from staying at a specific location. The residence ban and the restraining order, as mentioned above, do not require that a criminal offence has already been committed. The bans are meant to be prophylactic. The prohibitions are provided for in the Criminal Procedures Act and may apply for several months. It may be intrusive for the person concerned. It is therefore necessary to have a thorough process prior to the adoption of the prohibitions. In an emergency situation, the police may prohibit residence in specific areas under the Police Act § 7. The process here is simpler than the ban on residence under the Criminal Procedures Act. An emergency residence ban under the police law may be provided for the protection of outsiders, but also for the protection of members of a violent group. The government has not been given any indication that the current possibilities to prohibit people from staying in specific places are not sufficient in police prevention. If the government receives these kinds of signals, the government will consider taking a closer look at the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e1021	I thank you for your answer. This is about the fact that we have people who want to dominate specific areas and build up some sort of scare capital in those areas, using, as we see, constant violent incidents, and where the police have a lot of intelligence about what's going on, but where this isn't legally tried. I have been brought up by several local police stations in Oslo that they have problems practicing the home for bans, among other things. that you have to define someone as a member of a group or a member of a group that they do not accept, and then it's hard to move on with it. This is not a square case from my side. It's trying to get the Council of State into a process and get into this problem, because in my opinion it's very real.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e1028	Of course, I can honestly see what the representative from Bohemia says that this is a problem for which he has been presented. If this is right, there is a reason why I should look into it, and I promise I will. I want to get in touch with the Oslo police district, ask if this is a problem and how, in that case, you might think you can handle it better in accordance with the current legislation, like the representative of Bohemia, I am very concerned that we have good tools in this important work, so I can promise that I will. Then we'll see if that experience is valid for the police district as a whole, and if we have better ways to set this up, of course, without going across legal certainty. Of course, I'm open to just these kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e1033	I thank you for the answer and would like to encourage that if the Council of State wants to go into it, he will ask for contact with the local stations working on this. They are, as I see it, very constructive. They look for ways to get better practice and have some different alternatives. One of the options is that, in a milder form, this is so intractable, at the same time so important for prevention that, in the light of intelligence information, a police master’s decision can be taken within a certain framework to ban residence, for example by: is given the opportunity to test the proportionality of the latter, in court. Here's a search for a solution that can be better practised, because it's obvious that the police need better tools for this that youth gathers and violence arises, and then to keep the worst disordered people out of those areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e1038	There is a lot of good police work in the Oslo police district, and that also applies in the individual stations. That's my clear opinion after meeting a good deal of them, last night, with the good work done. When the police raise issues about the toolbox they have, and the possibilities they have for using effective measures, I'm always open to listening to police proposals. I think that if this is a problem that should be addressed, I will. Like the representative, Bøhler, I see that we can better facilitate the police to do their tasks in a better way. As I said, there's a good job in Oslo, but of course we'll also see if it's possible to facilitate it even better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e1043	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-05.ana.ud282e1057	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
