ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e39	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Solvency Horne, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and Linda C. Hofstad Helleland will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative, Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e48	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Under this government, unemployment has fallen. Unemployment among young people aged 15 to 24 is now at the highest level of more than 20 years. We have to go all the way back to 1993 to find the same number of young people who are unemployed. The last major peak was the last right in government, in 2005. During this period, the main political effort of the Right and Advance Party in government has been tax cuts of 25 billion. kr. The results of this initiative are missing. Employment growth is the lowest in 20 years, unemployment has not been higher in 20 years, almost no new jobs are created, nor does youth see the outcome of government policies. Since 2013, more young people have become unemployed, the number of unaccompanied young people has increased, and the number of unaccompanied young people has increased. It's serious when we know that among those who don't get a place to study, the dropout is higher and the path to leave is shorter. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that more is done to increase the number of young people in work or education, that there be stronger efforts for more apprenticeships, that there be stronger professional skills, that there be stronger efforts for young people unemployed, or that there be more opportunities for young people to study, as the Workers' Party has proposed. In these areas, the government has few results to point to, and it is clear that the government is pursuing a policy that does not work against unemployment, nor among young people. My question to the Minister of Knowledge is: Is the Government satisfied with the government's efforts to get more young people into work, in education or for more people to have a place to learn?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e61	If the representative is satisfied that we are finished, I am not satisfied. We still have a lot to do, but that's 50 pst. Increases in the transport budget, tax relief – now two out of three out of three out of the extra budgets go to increased public expenditure and welfare schemes, but also to tax incentives targeted at enterprises and Norwegian owners – combined with a high level of knowledge and schooling combined with a professional boost, such as: I believe that the apprenticeship grant in this period, with the good help of the Left and Christian People's Party, has increased by NOK 20 000, while in the red-green period it was in practice silent, which means that we have received a reinforced apprenticeship clause from 1 January, which means that there is a clearer requirement for apprentices to have on relevant projects – otherwise, it happened quite little with the previous one – combined with a vocational teacher's lift, also combined with several places of study in relevant areas, works. The claim that the vacancy has stuck is not correct. It's not like it's an unemployment crisis all over Norway. Rather, employment, but also unemployment, has fallen into many counties, but in the South and West we have an extra challenge. Although this is not my constitutional area, the challenge is to ask the question: When you travel to jobs in the South and Western countries and talk to people who invest money in jobs and those who work there, how many are saying that the solution – what we really are screaming for now – is higher tax, what can really help us in a situation where we have to spin and save, use each krone well, secure and fight for Norwegian jobs, is even higher tax into the treasury? I would like to see the list of those who have answered it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e68	It's not surprising that the Council of State is presenting its list of brawls. Every government can do that, every government can do that. But the boasting can not only be about what you've done, but also about what results you can point to. And the results are not shown on the vacancy, they are not shown to the young people who are not taught. Youth must be active. This is why the Workers' Party is calling for stronger efforts for, among other things. apprenticeships, vocational equipment, greater efforts for young people available and more places of study, as we have proposed. It is almost incomprehensible that in four years the Right Party government has barely proposed new study places in its budgets. The few places of study that have arrived, the supporting parties Christian People's Party and Left have fought in with merit. This could have been chosen as an instrument for providing more young people with skills, a way into working life, but the government has not chosen to do so. Last year Prime Minister Erna Solberg said that economic policy now works powerfully to combat unemployment. There must be absurdity for the 130 000 unemployed — 41,000 unemployed, 7 000 unskilled. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] Does the Council also believe that this policy is powerful in order to increase the number of apprenticeships and young people at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e75	The president reminds me of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e80	If it's not that it's spending more money – because we've done it because it's a crisis situation – by 50 pst. increasing the transport budget, which is both a long-term investment and creates activity in the economy here and now, and an additional package of measures specifically targeted towards the South and the West, is a powerful combination with overall economic governance, so I do not know. But that doesn't mean that we're out of what's at least one of the biggest shocks in the Norwegian economy has gotten in many decades. The financial crisis was serious, but the special thing about this situation is that it is not similar to the financial crisis. It was a short-term crisis, in which the state could go into action, and did so in a relatively good way. This is a long-term conversion, made visible by falling oil prices and having remained low. The combination of transport, taxes, red tape and a great deal of knowledge is a powerful package, but we still have to do more. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e85	Time's up. Follow-up questions will be raised – first Day Terje Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e92	It was interesting that the Council of State now mentioned the financial crisis – the solution, and how we met it – for the time we invited the opposition parties to join in and discuss with the government what to do. At that time, right-wing tax relief was proposed as a solution. We chose something else, and we solved the crisis. Taxes are still the answer, and they do not solve the current crisis either. But my question is related to what the State Council said about the profession and the recently submitted report from Fafo, which shows that the recruitment of construction subjects is falling. The government has opened up general access to temporary employment during this period. We see that recruitment agencies largely replace permanent employment in companies in Norway without intervention by the government, even though the Storting has asked for it, and some do not even have a salary between assignments. Then my question is, does the Council of State think that it contributes positively or negatively to recruiting for the professions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e99	Now, many of those issues and areas are another state council's responsibility. However, I believe that what contributes positively to the recruitment of a professional profession is among other things. increased apprenticeship grants – here you can go back and check the history of what has happened to it in the past. And we've reinforced the apprentice clause. For many years it stood «bour», «can» – it was a vague formulation. Now it says "to" where apprentices are needed. I believe that a professional teacher's lift contributes to increased recruitment to the professional subjects, I believe that we have statutory letters of practice in all counties, contribute to recruitment to the professional subjects, I believe that now we are talking about the professional subjects and saying that we need 90 000 – if I don't remember wrong – skilled workers in the future, which we do not currently train, contribute to increased recruitment to the professional subjects, and then I believe that the construction industry itself has done something very important, because they have said in many places that we also provide a guarantee of apprenticeship space. It is also an important contribution to the professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e104	Anders Tyvand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e110	Youth unemployment is a challenge, but we know that we need more skilled workers in the future. Then it's important that we also have enough apprenticeship places. It is true that much has been done during this ageing period in order to provide more apprenticeship places, both by requiring apprentices in state establishments, by requiring apprentices in public tenders, and not least by the fact that the cooperation parties have given the apprenticeship grant a significant boost. I hope and believe that the sum of that becomes more apprentice places. However, the public is still willing to pay more for school-based training than for out-of-company training for professional students. In the Christian People's Party, we have a goal of fully financing the training that companies are responsible for and raising the apprenticeship grant to a level that is equivalent to the cost of school training. Is that a goal shared by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e115	It's a goal that the head of the Right Programme Committee shares – it's me. It's not in the government statement right now, but you'll see about that in the next period. I believe that it is reasonable to fulfill the commitment made in practice in 1994, that the cost of having someone out of school should be the same as by giving them the opportunity to complete a degree in school. I share that ambition. Having said that, it will not solve the problem alone. We recently had a case in this room where the Riksrevision pointed out – if I do not remember correctly – that 14 out of 19 counties said they had done nothing to recruit new apprentice companies – so 14 out of 19 counties. Then all the parties sitting in this room can call home to their county councillors and ask: What are you doing in the county to recruit more apprentices – and more apprentices, right? I also believe that the State should follow up more, including: by creating better dimensional tools for the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e122	Ivar Odnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e127	It will be a bit in the same street to the Council of State: the placement of apprenticeships has been an Achilles heel in vocational and vocational training for many years. The indicator report that came two days ago, which also points to the fact that follow-up to social contracts that have now been published, shows that the number of approved learning contracts has increased between 2011 and 2016, and it is good that the challenge is only that the number of applicants has increased to an even greater extent. At the same time, this report shows that one of four approved apprentices has not taken in apprentices, and a total of 28 pst. Moreover, apprenticeships have not had apprentices in the last year. So the question to the Council of State is, what concrete action will the government now take to ensure that approved apprenticeships actually offer apprenticeships to the many thousands of qualified applicants who are now out of their teaching capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e132	I'm not going to spend the time repeating what we've done. But let me say something about the issues I think we need to do something about in the future. Perhaps the most important thing, as many of the social partners have promised, is that it may look as if there is a little unclear liability also in terms of who is responsible for acquiring new apprenticeships. When as many as 14 out of 19 county municipalities – once again with reservations, it is possible it was 15, or it is possible it was 13 – say that they are not working to acquire new apprenticeships, and then we have the training offices, which are primarily an association of companies that already have apprentices and perhaps do not see it as their main task rather to acquire new apprenticeships, then we have a responsibility positioning problem. It was an incredibly bad word, but we have a problem that the responsibility is not clearly placed, to say it very simply, so we're going to work on it. We're going to be working on giving the counties better tools to scale up education. And then it is also worth mentioning that we are now undergoing a major transformation of the vocational programmes themselves in high school into close, close cooperation with the social partners, which can also lead to more people starting out getting an apprenticeship contract in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e139	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e144	Governments are right when he says that there is no unemployment crisis in the whole country. But there is a crisis in some parts of the country. Many of those who have lost their jobs, or who are now struggling to get a job, need to do something about their formal skills, either because they do not have the skills they need, or because they need to change their skills. Then they often need to go to a college or a university. At the same time, there are certain challenges. My question to the Council of State is whether he believes that our universities and colleges are fast enough to bring up those who are now available. Can they provide the training needed? Is there good enough cooperation between the vocational schools and universities, so that the transition between the two institutions works in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e151	The answer to that is no. There's a lot that's good, but that's not good enough. In particular, I believe that it shows that we need a profession for the vocational schools. To give an example: I was in Porsgrund – i.e. at home – and I visited the technical school there. They had not visited a state council since Gunnar Knudsen's time. It's getting pretty many years ago. It says something about how the vocational schools have been systematically down-prioritized, that they have not been raised to fill the role they can play, which is even more important than what they play in the education system today. One of the advantages of vocational schools is that they can offer labour-oriented, practical courses adapted to local work and regional working life. The trades schools in many places are now doing a fantastic job, just by having your finger on the pulse of local working life and being quick to turn around. The university and higher education sectors are not as good at it. They'll have to do better than that. I also believe that the new funding system now being implemented will make it easier for them to offer it, at least in a number of areas. But it is also at the heart of the responsibility of universities and colleges to have contact with the labour market and to find out what it needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e160	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e165	I saw a lot of young people come in here, and maybe a lot of them also take a professional course. I think we have to assume that for them this discussion might be a little bit special, because the number is clear: there are too many people who are out of study space, and there is no improvement. There's a full deal at Stortinget about both the props, the collar and that kind of thing. Still, we're in a state of commotion. This is a crisis for all young people who are out of study. We can't be in the situation that as long as he's been over time, and actually now is increasing, we just have to relax. My question is whether there will be a whole new initiative now, that one really takes this seriously – or only hopes that the actions that one has implemented will soon be ‘look in’ and that it will be taken care of?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e172	No – I also assume that the representative means apprenticeship and not study space – I...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e178	Yes, I mean apprenticeship.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e183	... does not mean that we can lean back and just be satisfied with what we have done. Some of it is likely to have an effect, e.g. sharpened apprenticeship clause, but I think we also need to dig deeper. Today we're talking about that there's between 6,000 and 9,000 who don't have apprenticeship space. We don't know much about who are they? What are the biggest problems in what areas? This will also allow us to take action more directly against the states, for example. in the case of dimensioning. We may have a structural weakness in our system – as I mentioned in the previous answer – where the responsibility for obtaining new apprenticeship places is not clarified in the law, in regulations or in the legislation. I think we should look at that. Now that we are renewing all the vocational programmes, it is also an important contribution to creating a vocational education that our society desperately needs, but which is adapted to the working life that is out there. So I have no plans to rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e190	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e195	My question goes to the State Council Solvency Horne. The Christian People's Party notes that the criticism of cash support by the Council of State Listhaug has been met with standing applause by the major newspapers in the country. But we doubt whether applause is equally strong among the family members of the country. We know that among those who can receive cash support, the one-year-olds, there are 60 pst. that in part of the period receive cash support. It is the best of children and the choice of family that underpins the policy of the Christian People's Party. For us, no one is wrong. We thought that as long as family members are allowed to choose themselves, that is a good choice, regardless of whether a well-balanced cash support or kindergarten. When the Progress Party and State Council Listhaug now go into the stranglehold of cash support and claim that it is problematic that women are home with their one-year-olds – whether they are immigrant women – it undermines exactly the freedom of choice that we want to give to families with children. Listhaug refers to the Brochmann selection, but we know that both Fafo researchers and the Brochmann I committee report recognize that there are other factors that are more important. In the report we can read that as important as the economic incentives for a decision that a mother is at home are other factors. My question to the Council of State Horne is whether she thinks that the removal of cash support will automatically lead to immigrant women getting a job and getting out of work, or whether there are no other reasons why many immigrant women do not get out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e206	I thank you for the question, and it is good to hear that the Christian People's Party, like both the government and the Advance Party, is busy with the family, and that the family should be able to have freedom of choice and flexibility to arrange its daily life as it suits them in a phase of life when they have young children, which is very important for both the children and the family for the rest. This debate is often about parental leave and cash support. We see that the cash support has been an important step for families to have a choice to set up their everyday life. That's what our parties have been trailers of. I record that there is a discussion about the cash support. As a government council, I am dealing with the government platform that is today, and we have now received an increase in the cash support, which is important for the families that this applies to. We also see that in some cases the cash support may prevent immigrant women from getting into work. We also know that one of the keys to good integration is getting into the workplace. When four out of ten immigrant women are not in working life today, there is also a major gender equality challenge. But I am concerned that immigrant families should also be able to have the freedom to arrange their everyday life, and then cash support may be important for those families as well. The government is now proposing the introduction of a five-year housing requirement for asylum seekers, refugees and other immigrants who come to Norway from outside the EEA, because we see the importance of labour relations for this group and that cash support can be an obstacle. It is important that we have a discussion about the cash support, but at the same time it is important that families have the freedom of choice to set up the way they think it is too good to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e221	I agree that we should have a discussion about cash support, but it becomes very difficult for the families of children when there is uncertainty about such an important welfare arrangement. It's about the possibility of planning, and what I feel is that the Council of State, Mr. Listhaug, is doing with his clear criticism, is that she creates a completely conscious uncertainty about the cash flow. It is true, as the Council of State Horne says, that we know what our policy for the Progress Party is in this area, but it is now uncertain about what will be the policy for the future. I feel that the Council of State does not clarify this. 24 pst. by the recipients of cash support are men. This shows that equality is doing better. We know that it is also a challenge when it comes to the birth rate in Norway, that they have fallen. Removing welfare arrangements will not prevent it. I would like to repeat my question: Does the Council of State believe that removing cash support leads to the automatic entry of immigrant women into work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e230	Getting immigrant women to join the labour market is an important work for the government, and when four out of ten immigrant women are out of working life, there is both an equality challenge and an integration challenge that we need to address. That is why the government has worked actively to get more immigrant women into work. Statistics show that cash support is often used by immigrant families, and integration may be hindered. But I would like to stress that, as the State Council responsible for cash support, I am dealing with both the government platform and the budgetary decision that has been taken, where the cash support has been increased. But I also record that all the parties in this room have a discussion about the cash support. It is important that we have good welfare arrangements for the family, which enable them to have flexibility and freedom of choice. We've put down a sample to look at those schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e235	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkewold.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e240	As mentioned in one of the submissions, it is pointed out that both Fafo researchers and the Brochmann I committee see that there may be other things than cash benefits that make immigrant women not coming into work. There could be cultural differences, there could be family structures, there could be a view of equality, there could be a lot of things that make it not so easy to get immigrant women into work. My question is, does the Council of State recognise that there are other things than cash benefits such as cash support and child benefit that prevent these women from getting into work? If she recognizes it, in what way does the government work to overcome the obstacles that make many of these women not enter the workplace?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e247	When we look at the number of immigrant women who are in, or who are related to, the working life, it's very low. For this reason, it is also a theme on the agenda of the Nordic Conference on Gender Equality, which goes off the stack of these days, because the inclusion of immigrant women in working life is a major challenge for gender equality. It is only wrong to say that the cash support is the obstacle to getting immigrant women out to work. Like the representative, we know that there are cultural differences, there could be family situations, there could be language, there could be education. Therefore, it is important to focus on both language training and education in order for migrant women to get into work. It's a work that the government has strengthened both with Jobjesen and with the introduction program – getting more immigrant women into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e252	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e258	The Labour Party wants a real freedom of choice for the families, but we see that in the area by area things go in the wrong direction with this government. The number of kindergartens is increased, the prices of kindergartens are increased, and the amount of cash is increased. With this, it won't be a real freedom of choice for the families, it'll be a either-or. Now we also see that a new Nav report states that cash support is negative for women's employment, especially for those with a migrant background. We see that mothers with cash-assisted children work 5–6 percentage points less than they would have done without the bet increase that came from this government, and there is a much higher withdrawal among immigrant women. Why does the government not work for real freedom of choice for families with children and parents, so that they can choose to combine work and care, as most people want – rather than that many, and especially women, are pressured out of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e265	The government is really working for real freedom of choice, and with the change in the parental leave system, because we have now increased the common share, we have given families a greater freedom to choose to organize their everyday life according to what suits each family. When the Workers' Party is talking about real freedom of choice, it's only if you have to be able to choose what the Workers' Party wants. Families are different, families need to be able to choose distribution from the parental pension scheme, and also to be able to choose cash support if they want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e272	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e277	When the parents receive cash support, the small roles in the nursery begin about when they are two years old, instead of when they are one year old. That is the effect of the cash support. There is a compromise between cross-cutting considerations, between the freedom of choice of parents and the best interests of children, and it is a compromise that is similar to that of all those who have lived in Norway for more than five years. Different opinions have been received recently from both the Progress Party and the Right, and that is why the question is up here today. My question is: Does the Council of State think that there is a lack of integration of immigrant women that should be given priority in the question of whether we should have cash support for parents with children between one and two years of age? Is the lack of integration to be given priority in the matter, or does the Council of State consider that there are other considerations to be given the utmost importance?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e284	I hope the Stortinget understands that as the Council of State, which is responsible for this, I am dealing with both the Government Platform and the budgetary decision that this House has taken. I record that in all parties there is now a programme work, and there are also discussed benefits and disadvantages of cash support, and then we get to wait a few months to see what the individual party lands on. But to the question, it is important that we include immigrant women in the labour market, and it is worrying when we see that such a large proportion of immigrant women do not belong to the labour market. We know that it is important for the individual, both for self-sufficiency and for freedom, and then we have to look at what are the obstacles today in that immigrant women do not get into work. We know that it is often language and education that are key to getting into the world of work. We also see that a large proportion of immigrant women use cash support, and that they may then be away from education and working life for a longer period than what would have been best for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e291	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e296	White, ethnic Norwegian women are the most equal in the world. It's an incredible story of winning battles, equal dignity, equal opportunities. Work has been a main key. The same gender equality does not apply to all women in Norway. Migrant women, the brown, black, colored women, those with a minority background, do not have the same rights, they do not experience the same opportunities, they do not live under the same dignified conditions. So we know today that the public support scheme contributes to keeping the immigrant woman at home, away from work, with the result that it is delayed – at worst prevented – equality. My question is, how will the Council of State raise the equality of the immigrant woman, preferably with cash support removed, but, if so, in spite of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e303	I'm very happy that we now see a high proportion of minority girls taking higher education, and it's important that they use that education when they're done with it. Then we see that four out of ten immigrant women are not related to the working life. Then it is important to focus on the introduction programme, on which the government has made changes, i.e. the job opportunities, for these immigrant women to receive language training and education, so that they can be linked to the working life. Then I would like to stress that the cash support is for a small period of life. The challenge is that if you get cash support over many years, with maybe more kids, you'll be out of work for a longer period of time. But for most people, cash support is not a challenge, because cash support also gives the family freedom of choice to be at home with the children who may need to be at home instead of going to kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e310	Audun Lighthouse – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e315	It was said that the relatively high number of families using cash support is an expression of freedom of choice. It might as well be said to be an expression of the lack of freedom of choice resulting from this government's depriving of the reform of kindergartens. Had we had two admissions this year, we would also have been in a situation where many people would not use cash support as a waiting aid while waiting in kindergarten. An important objective for SV is a less unequal society. We must then succeed in the policy of equality and integration. It's one of the biggest mysteries of Norwegian politics that the Progress Party, which sits up every time someone with a migrant background gets what the Advance Party believes is too much money, at the same time, in the government, has increased the payments as much as this government has done to, among other things. many women with a migrant background to stop working. Sylvi Listhaug will think again. I agree for once with Sylvi Listhaug, but I think the Council of State has now replied very unclearly about whether she also agrees. Is she ready to think again about the cash support, or is she at peace?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e322	I am always ready to think new, but like the Council of State that is responsible for the cash support, I am dealing with the government platform and the budgetary conciliation here in Stortinget, which I have repeated several times. But then I also have to say that it is amazing to hear the red-green parties talk about the cash support as the big equality challenge and the challenge that immigrant women have today with the cash support. I just want to remind the representative Lysbakken that it was the previous government that increased the cash support to NOK 5000, which meant that perhaps more people chose this. I am recording that the figures for those who opt for cash support are now falling steadily, and that is because we have had a large-scale kindergarten development, with more kindergarten admissions – and now until November, from this year on. There is a bet on kindergartens that we all agree on is important, but there is also an opportunity to have freedom of choice, with cash support for those who do not want kindergarten space from the child is two years old.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e330	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e335	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. The material found in the archive, library and museum sectors is in many ways our common memory. The size has assumed that the community has a responsibility to secure these collections for future generations and to give the people access to all. Digitisation of documents and objects is increasingly a prerequisite for solving those tasks. Yesterday, the National Audit Office presented a report with a depressing summary of the status of digitisation of collections in the archive, library and museum sectors. The report criticises the Ministry of Culture for the lack of follow-up and management of digitisation. The whole 27 pst. The museum believes it will take a very long time, perhaps up to 20 years, to get up to date, while the Swedish Archives has actually written off the ambition to digitize 10 pst. in the foreseeable future. This is alarming findings, and it means in the utmost consequence that important parts of our cultural heritage can be at risk of being lost. It is therefore close to asking the government if it agrees that this gives cause for concern, and what the government intends to do in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e344	It is true that on 7 February the Riksrevision presented its final report on the digitisation of cultural heritage and the follow-up of the 2009 Digitalisation Communication by the Ministry of Culture. Here we get some criticism of the lack of results among our underlying businesses and beneficiaries. I would like to thank the National Audit Office for a good and thorough report on the work we are doing on the digitisation of cultural heritage. Digitalisation of cultural heritage I agree with the representative Arnstad in is a task that we should give priority to. It is very important that we have our inheritance documented. Then it is that this task is also something that the underlying agencies prioritize against other urgent tasks in their collections and institutions. I will go through the report carefully. I want to look at how we can monitor the work even better with the Swedish Archives Agency and parts of the museum field, and make sure that the planning and management of digitisation work also improves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e353	It is quite obvious when you read the report from the National Audit Office that there is a need to intensify work on digitisation, but also to do something about managing the work. The Ministry has stated in the report of the National Audit Office that it is the responsibility of the underlying agencies to report in, more than it is the responsibility of the Ministry to manage the work. I see that the Council of State is really adding up to something of the same in its answer, but the Riks revision is clear and clear that this is the Ministry of Culture's responsibility, and you can't push responsibility from one side to the other. Does the Council of State consider that the management and follow-up of the ministry's work has been satisfactory? And what kind of plan does the department now have to get a better follow-up to this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e358	I would like to stress that it is very challenging to digitise satisfactorily, in a good enough way, all parts of the cultural heritage. That doesn't mean we shouldn't do it anyway, and there are some areas that are much more difficult to create a good digital representation of, for example. a neat handwritten church book versus a printed book page. So now it takes time, and finding good methods to do it is important. We're going to focus on this from the department's side in the time that's ahead of us. We're going to, as I say, go thoroughly into the report and see how we can better follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e365	There will be follow-up questions – first Ivar Odnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e370	Taking care of our cultural heritage is an obligation from generation to generation. As the representative Arnstad described the situation, the lack of follow-up from the responsible department and also government has been so bad that progress in the digitisation of archive material can be calculated in terms of pro-mill and not in terms of percentages, as foreseen by the Stortinget. Only about 2 pst. the archive population has been digitised so far, which represents an increase of the disappearance of 0.1 percentage points from 2010 to 2015. This illustrates that there is a formidable task that remains and that there is a hurry to solve. Both the Council of State and I are the perpetrators of an intangible cultural heritage that is also important to take care of. I believe that the Council of State is not satisfied with the follow-up. The question is therefore: What kind of measures does the Council of State intend to take in order to advance digitisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e377	As I said, I am very pleased that we have received this thorough report from the National Audit Office. I would like to stress again that for our agencies it is a priority issue. That's why I want to say that it's very positive, and I'm very glad that the Riksrevision acknowledges that large parts of the cultural heritage are very difficult to digitize satisfactorily, and that they're also clear that it can't be, or should be, a goal to digitize all cultural heritage. We need to give priority to what we think is important to digitize. I'm going to go into the report thoroughly, and I'm going to look at what measures we're going to take from the department to better follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e382	Hege Haukeland Liadal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e387	I hear that the Council of State is pleased with the Riksrevision report, and I expect that there will be no empty words when it comes to following up further. It is no surprise to us who are working on the field of culture politically and at national level, that the challenges are great when it comes to digitisation. We get reminders of that every day, and at least I didn't need a revision from the National Audit Office to be aware of that. So I allow myself to ask the Minister of Culture, because it's interesting for Stortinget to know this: in what area of the cultural field does the Council of State see that the shoe prints most per day?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e394	I very much agree with the Haukeland Liadal representative, which is that it's complicated, and it's huge challenges, precisely because it's such a massive material we're talking about. That's why I want to go through the report and look at what measures we can take. From a political point of view, we should be careful to set too many priorities. Fortunately, we have very good professional expertise on this in Norway, in the Swedish Archives Agency, which is what you want to give priority to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e402	Let's move on to the next main question
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e407	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. A few days ago, we were presented with the Brochmann II Committee's investigation, which assesses how we can achieve a good integration policy in Norway, so that those who come to Norway – either as refugees, asylum seekers, workers or others – do not become a burden on society, but actually contribute to society. That report revealed that the Prime Minister of Integration in the Norwegian Government is the Minister of Knowledge. There we see that the second generation succeeds well in Norway, because we have an education system that manages to lift the kids, and the academic background of parents doesn't give long CVs. We see that young people with ill-fabetic mothers and low-educated fathers manage to succeed in the Norwegian school system. But not everyone does. Some of the boys we have bigger problems with than some of the girls, for example. My question to the Council of State is whether he has understood that it is not Sylvi Listhaug who is the prime minister of integration in the government, but that it is actually the Minister of Knowledge who has the most important means of success in integration. And has he also understood that especially raising children from the academic background they have at home, in order to exploit their full potential in a school, is what is actually most effective for everyone to succeed in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e416	I got it. I'm not sure if Councillor Listhaug knows, but I understand. It is quite right, as the representative says, that the two main tools we have for integration are the labour market and education. They are all, most important. In terms of education, we almost have to divide into a little more issues, because there is a difference between what's going on for a completely new student, and what's going on for one who has only a minority background but is born and raised in Norway. But in both areas, we see that we have major challenges. For example, if we use national tests for reading as an example, we see that among those not born in Norway, more than 50 pst. at the lowest levels of reading. Among the Nordics with a majority background, there are some and twenty percent. Among those born in Norway but with a minority background, there are some and forty percent. That's the relative difference that's interesting here. From school research we know that it is highly likely that good schools are able to lift all students, i.e. that for those born in Norway but with a minority background, a good school is the most crucial. It's e.g. to find those students who have problems, early in school, and to take action, early action. It's having high expectations for the students. It's having teachers with high professional autonomy and integrity. It's to have a school system that's busy with knowledge at every turn, but also a school system where students are safe and teach. With regard to the newly arrived students, we still have some of the measures we initiated in connection with the influx of asylum and refugees, for example. continuing training and training of school staff, simply. We also focus on bilingual education and migration education, as an important part of it. But there are also some structural problems in our system. Some of them we have corrected in this budget, but there are also several, which I have to come back to later.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e427	One is about the second generation, which must have the opportunity to succeed in the system. Another finding in the Brochmann II investigation is that the first generation, which is given the opportunity to add a small amount of Norwegian education to a foreign country, has a much greater chance of success. Yesterday I spoke with the man of a Filipino lady with a Filipino nurse, who was doubtful that it would not be possible to add a Norwegian part to such an education. Because what the Brochmann II committee shows is that you have some units with Norwegian education on top of a foreigner, is the possibility of getting a job much bigger. It may also be a more important part than just the approval part. Why don't we try to get to educational institutions that can provide those based on other educations that allow you to have the stamp of NTNU or the University of Oslo together with a foreign education, which makes Norwegian employers secure on the papers they have in front of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e432	I totally agree, and we'll try. Among other things, in the budgets on which the Left has agreed with the government, there have been very concrete measures to achieve this, for example. at the University of Oslo and Akershus, where we provide support to the institutions to create fully targeted courses just to fill in the gaps of competence. For some, part of the education could be approved; for some, the entire education could be accepted, but the key is to identify where it is necessary to top up to be approved in the Norwegian labour market or to receive an approved Norwegian education. That's what we're doing. But it's a problem that's been around for a long time, and it's complicated. So I wish that work went even faster, and that we had even more people working on it. But we're in the process, and at least that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e437	Follow-up questions will be asked - Abid Q. Raja.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e442	We have a successful history of second-generation immigrants in Norway, represented in this room, among others. by Hadia Tajik and Mudasar Kapur. Even the first generation of immigrants manages, as the Stortingets Mazyar Keshvari is an example. The question is also how to organise the opportunities. In the 1980s, when people like me went to school, the school counselors didn't believe in people like us, that we would succeed. Very many people have denied this. Immigrants are a burden, especially to themselves and their families, but also to society, if they don't succeed. My question to the Council of State is whether he sees how political rhetoric can also be involved in either undermining or facilitating the success of some, how we talk about immigrants as a resource or burden – both of them can become self-fulfilling prophecies. Another state council is very busy sending signals. What kind of signals does this council want to send to the immigrants? Will he have faith that they will succeed, or does he expect them to become a burden?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e451	Thank you to the representative Raja for a not completely exhaustive list of people with minority backgrounds who have done well in politics, but nevertheless a fine overview. It is easy and tempting always to say that everyone who comes to Norway is a resource. Potentially, of course, everyone is a resource. But if we make it a mantra, we risk talking so much about it that we don't see the real challenges. And that's, I mean, a fact that if you have too much immigration over a long time, while you have an integration that doesn't work, maybe even as realistically never can get everyone fully integrated, it's hard to combine with a welfare state and a social model like ours. I believe that even if we are to see the individual as a resource and we are to assume and expect everyone to contribute, we must not go into the trap of not talking about difficult issues because we prefer to talk well about people. So I'll choose a combination of different solutions, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e458	Marianne Aasen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e463	Making sure that refugees and immigrants are given the skills they possess, or are given a place to study, is a broad consensus. The consensus is so broad that it was introduced as a central point in the 2015 integration agreement. That agreement stated: ‘In order to better facilitate labour-oriented measures in the integration process, the Grand Duchy asks the Government to: [[...]] – This was adopted unanimously. The mission was given to NOKUT, which is the government body for the recognition of foreign education. They got 10 million. kr for this work, but the money disappeared when the budget settlement was made the last harvest. In these days, this screening work would be carried out to the full by the many who came in 2015, but the queue of refugees will now be long. The council just said in his reply to Trine Skei Grande that he wanted this to happen faster. Then why did the council agree to cut $10 million? kr to NOKUT?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e479	Firstly, I fully agree that NOCUT is absolutely essential. Those are the ones who recognize foreign education. Now it is also the case that the institutions have a responsibility to see if the education is appropriate, but it is NOKUT that accepts foreign education. The reason we thought it was proper to withdraw what was a one-off grant for NOKOT of 10 million. kr, the refugee and asylum situation had changed – the influx was smaller. Then I am a little unsure whether I misunderstood the representative of Aasen, because at the same time we are also working with a type of competence monitoring tool that should be low threshold, which you can apply to the receptions, and as Vox, now called Competence Norway, has had a primary responsibility for, but one has also worked closely with NOKUT. It is the tool that aims at both monitoring formal competence and self-reported competence, and the ambition is simply to get data on individuals who can follow one through parts of the public system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e487	Ivar Odnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e492	Persons over 16 years of age who have been given a residence permit are entitled to basic training for adults if they need it and to further training. This right also applies to asylum seekers between 16 and 18 years of age if they are likely to be in Norway for more than three months. According to the Education Directorate, the counties do not have an overview of the training status of 40 pst. by these kids. These young people are thus at risk of leaving without training unless the municipalities and county councils cooperate well. It may take a long time for newcomers to start further training. This is due to the fact that the county councils do not have any obligation to collect elephants during the year, and that some county councils do not accept applications after the deadline has expired. In the worst case, it may take six months for them to arrive until training is started. Will the Council of State consider measures to remedy this and, where appropriate, what kind of action will the Council of State consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e501	I think I should already say that some of the details of that question I would like to have a written question about, so I can get back to it. These included: a change in 2013, as far as I remember, in relation to the right to advanced training for asylum seekers. But it is quite right that children are entitled to school in Norway, and they are entitled to school in Norway if they are to be here for more than three months. It means, in practice, that the legislation says that as soon as possible, children should be brought into school. The numbers that are referred to with the county councils that do not have an overview of these children, I do not know on the standing footing, so I may have to come back to that. But we expect the county councils and municipalities to follow up the legislation made on the basis of Storting's intentions and will. If that's not done, we have to look at what we can do. But I can't say anything more concrete about it now, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e508	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e513	I don't think there's a consensus that's wider than that about new people in Norway learning Norwegian as quickly as possible. I think I'll have some cake. It'll pop out of the windows here. It is the broadest unity that exists! So the Council of State takes note of early efforts. Can the Council explain one thing to me? The government is very busy learning Norwegian as quickly as possible, and is the government equally concerned about cutting Norwegian training? Can the Council of State simply explain to me that paradox – help Stortingen understand that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e520	Norwegian training for newly arrived refugees to Norway is not under the Ministry of Knowledge. That means I don't know the details of it either. My responsibility begins at the moment you get into reception classes and into the system in Norwegian school. I know it's been a discussion, but since as a politician you're most concerned about following up on your own field, I don't know enough about the details to be able to answer it – if that's the introduction system the representative asks about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e525	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e530	I think I'm just gonna ask the Minister of Knowledge to turn around! Several teachers are the most important for increasing quality in school, and we need to end overcrowded classrooms in Norwegian schools. It's the teachers' most important requirement for us politicians; it's a clear demand from parents; it's a clear demand from the students. Why is that important? Well, that's because more teachers, increased teacher's density, give more time to each and every child. It provides an opportunity to create a school that will enable each child to follow up on the child’s own premises. The bourgeois majority have tried to do something about this, have tried to increase the teacher's density in primary school. But we've recently got the numbers that show that the majority has failed quite spectacularly. It's actually like the teacher's density in primary school under Torbjørn Røe Isaksen is going down. Then there are many different options in the debate, different solutions. SV and the Christian People's Party and the teachers' organisations have proposed a national teaching standard, which will ensure, through a standard at school level throughout primary school, to solve the problem of overcrowded classrooms where there is a problem. The working party came with its alternative yesterday – surprisingly toothless, I would say. It is an ineffective norm that will not solve the problem of overfilled classrooms. But the big question before the autumn elections remains: What is the alternative of the government parties? So now Torbjørn Røe Isaac has failed with the recipe he made with the Christian People's Party in this period. There was no increase in teacher's density in primary school. What is Torbjørn Røe Isaksen's plan to end crowded classrooms?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e543	Let me start with the positive: we probably agree that if you want to have a norm first, you have to have a standard that has a kind of content. Making a norm at municipal level only for 1–4. the class does not really have any particular content and is likely to lead only to the transfer of teachers from the middle and youth to the bottom. But that wasn't really the question. So just to the premises: What has been the focus of this bulk of population has been early efforts. The previous number of high school students chose to bet in high school, and we've invested in early work. And the GSIs show that for 1 to 4. from the 2014/2015 school year to 2016/2017, there has been an increase in the number of teacher’s annuals for teaching at nearly 1000 annuals, 986. And then there's been an increase in the number of students, so it's become more students, 8,022 more students. Nevertheless, group size 2, which is the closest we get an indicator also of class size, has decreased from 16.0 to 15.8 in the current school year. So it's not right what the representative says, that the bulk of the population has been investing in more teachers from one to four. step but that it has not had an effect. Yes, it has had an effect – the size of the group has fallen. And then you can look at how those numbers have evolved historically. Then there's two reasons why I'm not in favour of a nationally governed norm. One is that I think it's more important how new teaching positions are used. We have said that we want an enhanced obligation to provide intensive training in 1–4. class. It's going to need more teachers, probably most of the places. It's more important than class size per second. The other is that there may be local needs, local desires, for example: that you have some schools where you need extra resources, want to prioritise new resources on them. This possibility will be severely limited by a national teaching standard. And a third reason is that although a sufficient number of teachers are important, there are other things than more teachers that are important for quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e556	I understand then that the government parties do not have a plan to increase the teacher's density in primary school as such. That means that SV and the Christian People's Party have a good plan, the Workers' Party has a bad plan, and the Right has no plan – a straightforward summary. In Political Quarter last week, the Council of State spoke out very bombastically about the consequences of the Christian People's Party and the SV's proposal for the norm and said that it would lead to a massive movement of teachers from east to west in Oslo. So today he has said that it was a little unpresist -- it's "state council" for without root in reality, as I choose to interpret it, since the numbers show that there are only 15 schools in Oslo that have a teacher's density higher than the norm SV suggests, and they are spread all over the city. But we don't know enough about the numbers of the different standards proposals today. Governments have suspended follow-up research on the experiment in secondary school. During Røe Isaksen, the Ministry of Knowledge has failed to rely on these different norms and has now gone a whole year in the blind around the results of its own experiment. The question is: will the Council of State start accounting now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e563	We're counting on that size thing asking us to figure out. If they ask us to do an experiment through a written question or a budget question, we will of course count on it. So there's a reason why I say unpresist and not that I was wrong, because I don't have any problems admitting that sometimes you can be wrong in a heated debate situation – I'm trying not to do it at Stortinget. But why do I call it unpresist? Well, that's because there's two pretty clear assumptions we can make about a nationally controlled teaching norm. One is that the largest classes are in the larger cities. Most people will agree on that. In other words, if you want to finance it, the money will go to the largest cities, not to District Norway, where, in many places, you don't have the best school results, even if you have small classes. The second is that if a municipality like Oslo got us to say 100 million. kr, for the sake of the illustration, and one had to use it to finance a teaching norm instead of what the Oslo politicians themselves might have wanted, to strengthen the schools where they thought it was most needed, so it means that Oslo Municipality, or other municipalities, because of a national norm could not prioritise where they thought the shoe pressed, but had to give priority to meeting a norm set in – in this particular case – Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e571	There will be follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e576	There's a reason when a bomb was rough on the radio, to reflect on the basics and meanings you have, to vote, and whether they're rooted in reality. In SV we are very pleased with the developments that we are now seeing in Norwegian policy, where more and more parties are starting to advocate a teacher's norm and see that it is important to limit how many children there are per teacher in school. We also heard on the radio that the Council of State has made assessments of several of the different models that have come up. The working party model, which is very little concrete. Since the Council of State has the big calculator behind and in the back and has gone through all these numbers, what is the Council of State's assessment of the Labour Party's model for maximum number of elephants per teacher?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e581	If you want an answer from the Department on any financial costs of the Labour Party model, I can't give it now, on a standing footing. This will be my political assessment: a norm at municipal level and only for the lowest steps is something different than what it seemed to have wanted in the past. There's a danger, of course, a little bit depending on how you raise the funding of it, that you get a kind of move of teachers from youth to intermediate and down to 1st and 4th stages. So two other points: first of all, we have a lot of research on the effect of multiple teachers. The last grant was the SSB, which assessed the youth initiative with 600 additional teachers, which the previous government started as a pilot project, and it showed no results in terms of the level of knowledge of the students, of what they measured – that reservation must be made. The second is that it's not unexplained to say that a teacher's norm will mean that the Storting decides where to put money instead of the local politicians do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e588	Christian Thinning Bjørnø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e597	Can we calm down at the mall?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e602	You don't have freedom of speech from the gallery, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e611	Then we move on to the next follow-up question, be so good, Thinning Bjørnø.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e616	The working party wants a standard of teacher's density because we want more teachers in school. But I'm going to make it simple for the council and boil it down to what it's really about, and then we can let norm be norm and class size be class size. My question is really simple: does the Council of State think there is a need for more teachers in school? I ask because there is not one single word about it in the Right-wing Programme proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e621	Yeah, I think there's a need for more teachers in school. There's several reasons for that. One reason is that it's self-explanatory. When more students arrive, there is a need for more teachers. The second is that in the Right Programme, for example, talks about an enhanced effort of 1–4. Steps, a reinforced obligation for schools to provide additional training, will in many places mean that the money received, whether it is the softly earmarked funds in the government's proposals or the 1 to 4 grants. steps following the budgetary conciliation will have to be applied to several teaching positions. I think the reason many people are disappointed with what has come into the Workers' Party's programme is the difference between rhetoric and reality. The Labour Party has long spoken as if they wanted a norm as much as the Christian People's Party and SV want. They don't want to. Now they have ended up with a norm that no one is satisfied with, except perhaps the National Labour Party meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e629	Anders Tyvand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e634	The Council of State has agreed to grant ear-marked funds to more teachers in school, and I wish he would also be involved in introducing a law that ensures enough teaching resources in school. We are still seeing new examples of the effect of increasing teacher density. The last example is found in the PISA report. There we see that Estonia is now doing much better than they did a few years ago. The most important thing that has happened at school in Estonia is that teacher density has increased. It is being raised, inter alia: by The Economist. 20 years ago, Estonia had about 20 students per teacher. Today, they have about 12 pupils per teacher, and now Estonia has made a promise and is on a par with Finland in terms of student performance. Don't the Council of State take inspiration from it, and won't the Council of State agree to introduce a norm that both Christian People's Party, SV, the teachers, the students and the parents want, and that will ensure enough teachers in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e639	No, I don't want a national norm. So it's that in school research it's possible to find support for different views on this. If you try to sum it up: spending money on more teachers is a very expensive measure, and in itself it does not have an effect if not also teaching methods are changed. It's briefly summed up what it shows. What has been most important to me and to this government is how we use more teaching positions, if we have to pay for it by the state. Then I'm more concerned that we, for example. will do what has a fairly well-documented effect: provide intensive training to those students who fall behind early in the course of education, rather than creating a national standard that will in practice very easily lead to a reduction in the number of students in the class, which will also mean that the largest funds will go to the largest cities. This is not where we have the biggest problems in school, in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e648	Ivar Odnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e653	It is obvious that many factors influence learning exchange for the student. The center part thinks that learning density is an important input factor. For many years, the government’s own party has tried to argue intensely that learning density has no effect on the student’s learning exchange, and that other factors are more important. However, Norwegian teachers, elephants and parents have experienced daily that large classes and too little time for individual follow-up are a challenge in the classroom. It seemed obvious to most people that the teacher has less time for each student if the class consists of 30 elephants than he has in a class of 15. This is about ‘common sense’. When the government itself has now given almost 1 billion. kr more for more teachers, it must be understood as a recognition of the importance of higher learning density. The question is, can the government confirm that increasing learning density actually has a positive effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e660	It depends on how to use more teachers, and that's my starting point. It is quite right that you will have more time for each student – that is, if you have 30 students in the class and have 60 minutes, you will have 2 minutes per student, if you have 15 students, you will have 4 minutes per student – if you do the teaching in that way. The research is quite clear – as I also said in my previous answer – that compared to the cost of this, this is not the most important measure to increase students’ knowledge in school, and that is the good and documented effect of, even if other things can go in the opposite direction, for example. for the youngest. But now, when we both propose and have been on, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left – the Christian People's Party is a proponent – to give more teachers 1–4. steps, and also wishes to have an enhanced duty of 1 to 4 training. step, that means that we want to use these doctrines, and that we think it's important. But we don't want a national norm. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e667	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e672	One of the things that is going to come after this council of states is that he, along with the Left and Christian People's Party, has carried out a formidable uplift in further education and training. The reason why we've done it together is because we think it definitely affects the students' learning outcomes. Although we have come a while on the way, there are still a number of subjects that are not given priority, and some teachers who are in line waiting for further and further training. Now we're in a discussion about this teacher norm. We've also spent a lot of money on it in the last budgets, but we see that it's a pretty – what to say – tough discussion also among the trade unions, where both research results and healthy knowledge come up for discussion in both camps. My question to the Council of State is: What is the next major project the Council of State believes we need to bet on and get going?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e681	Just as we had a bet on the Knowledge Lift, which came last Right and Left in government together, we have in this period had a bet on what we called the Teacher Lift. So I believe that the next big bet should be early effort. It's not because we're not doing early work right now, it's not because we haven't done action there, but because that's where we know that we can get the most back to put the effort in. A study by the National Centre for Reading and Reading in Stavanger provides a good example of the 80 pst. have a chance of rising to a normal level. If one waits for 5th grade, it drops to 15-20 pst. by the students. It says something about ‘early effort’ not 5th grade, it's not 4th grade, it's not even 3rd grade, it's 1st grade, and it's 2nd grade. There I believe that there is a need for a further promise, and that what we have agreed on in the Storting, more teachers from the 1st to the 4th. step, paid by the State, is a good contribution into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e688	We go to the next, and the last, main questions, from Arild Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e693	My question goes to the Minister of Culture and the Media. We are seeing developments today that give rise to concerns about freedom of the press and the public. In some countries the press is shut down and crushed, and journalists and editors are threatened. Many media houses are undergoing major changes that put pressure on journalism. Many, especially young people, do not use established media channels, such as newspapers and broadcasting, as their leading sources of news, but social media, which do not operate according to the Varsom poster, with source protection and rights of defence for people being attacked. In the United States, we see that critical journalism is being met with claims of false news. This, in total, paints a rather frightening picture of a common public that is perplexing, which can represent democratic challenges. The first to defend the free press must be the politicians. We are set to protect the fundamental freedoms of the Constitution. But also here in Norway, we see leading politicians — in government — burning newspapers, encouraging the boycott of newspapers and questioning the credibility of the press. This is not just the problem of the individual government council or of a single government party; this should be the problem of the entire government. The Minister for Culture has the overall and coordinating responsibility for media policy in Norway. What does the Minister for Media think that representatives from the government are calling for the boycott of Norwegian media?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e705	I want to thank the representative for a good and important question that it is important that we travel in this room. Freedom of the press is a fundamental principle in a democratic state, which we must protect in Norway and which is crucial. It is essential that the media have an independence, that they be able to make criticisms of public authorities, that they have resources to do so, and that they have freedom to do so. Of course, the government is concerned that no news media should be boycotted in any way. I feel that the government councils work every single day to get ‘on’ their cases, but also answer issues, on criticism, critical questions and difficult issues. At the same time, it is also important that the media be careful and accurate in their representations of matters, and that the media also reflect the content of the opinion of politicians. But on a general basis, I should say, I am concerned that we state councils and also other politicians in Norway are available, and that we are responding to the press as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e712	I am pleased that the Minister of Culture is clear that freedom of the press is fundamental. At the same time, I think it is very serious when we have a Minister of Justice in Norway who calls for boycott, a former Minister of Justice who has burned newspapers, and an Integration Minister who doubts the credibility of the press. These aren't just single events. It's implemented by people who would stand up for the freedom of the press and defend it, and it's a systematic in what's about hugging criticism. I record this being allowed to continue without the Prime Minister intervening and responding to it, and without the Minister of Culture so far having done any of the world's things with it. Will the Minister of the Media at least propose that government councils be sent to a press freedom course?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e717	In this government, it's like the state councils don't drive and charge each other. I don't know if you do it in other governments, but we don't do it in this government. I have full confidence that my fellow Councillors will do their utmost every day to have a good dialogue with the press. Sometimes it's like that, and the representative also knows very well, that you get into hot discussions with journalists because you just disagree with the rendering or disagree with an angle that you think is completely unreasonable. But I see that the Prime Minister was very clear that the government does not boycott any news media. I fully support the Prime Minister in that, and therefore it is very clear what this government believes about boycott.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e722	There will be follow-up questions – first Hege Haukeland Liadal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e727	I would like to remind you of 30 January 2017 when we read in the Evening Post: ‘Minister of Justice and Foreign Affairs Amundsen threatened with newspaper boycott’. Amundsen said this to VG: ‘We need to assess whether we should deal with that newspaper at all.’ I do not agree as the Council of State Hofstad Helleland that Prime Minister Erna Solberg has been clear and clear. Her answer to Martin Henriksen in the Workers' Party was that a Advance Party politician in election struggle, or Amundsen and his party traps, can speak out – or not – if they want. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e744	I think the government has made it very clear that we don't boycott any news media, and that is my clear and clear position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e749	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e754	I think we can all experience from time to time that it's written and reproduced things in the media that we don't always like, or that we disagree with, that the council also replied to. But answering this by burning or boicotte newspapers is no dangerous way for responsible politicians. At a time when ‘fake news’ — alternative truths — is being used in attempts to frustrate critical journalism, we need forward-looking media politicians in this house. At the forefront of this series, the responsible State Council for Media Policy should stand and defend the independence of the media as well as critical, gravitating journalism. I ask – and challenge – the Council of State to take that challenge and in a far more visible way than to now take an active part in the public debate related to this, and show that this government is the foremost defender of both media independence, critical journalism and gravitating journalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e761	I thank the representative, Mr Becquerad, for a good question, because it is very important for the government to protect the freedom of the press. I am very pleased that Norway is getting very high on the world press freedom index. I think the last time I looked at that index, we were in the third place, with Finland in the first place. Initially, we are very well located in Norway. The government is concerned about finding good and forward-looking business models for the media houses, that we have strong, editorial media that relate to the Var Varsom poster, and that as readers we have PFU to deal with. But what has occurred lately is just "fake news". That's what I'm concerned that we can't water out. False news is a deliberate manipulation, and it should not be confused that we politicians feel that we are being mistreated by the media, or that we think it is a bad angle of things. We must follow this very closely, and I assure the representative that I do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e770	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e784	The President makes it clear that there are a number of changes to the set question list, and the President is referring to the electronic question list in this respect. The President considers that the fact that all these questions are put to the vote is due to the fact that the Councils of State have left. A question to the Minister of Defence is now being put to the second row, and it is tempting to add that the government councils should give priority to the Great Britain's Question Time every Wednesday. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative André N. Skkelstad to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 3, from the representative of Pål Farstad to the Minister for Industry, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 4, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Climate and Environment, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 5, from the representative Ketil Kjenseth to the Minister of Health and Welfare, has been transferred to the Minister of Industry who is directing him. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Economic Affairs has left. Question 6, from the representative of Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative of Ivar Odnes. Question 8, from the representative Kåre Simensen to the Minister of Defence, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Fisheries, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is directly responsible. However, the question will be answered by the Minister of Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, who has been away. Question 12, from Mr Henriksen's representative to the Minister for Justice and Security, will be answered by the Minister for Immigration and Integration, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e815	‘For the Left, it is an objective that more people create a job for themselves and perhaps some others. It will be good for Norwegian innovation skills and for a diverse and diversified Norwegian business. One of the main challenges in assessing whether to start on its own or not is to some extent a major difference in taxation. A self-employed person pays about NOK 30 000 more in taxes than a ‘usual employee’ with the same salary, due to a few deductions. Does the Council of State consider such bias to be entirely acceptable?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e828	I agree with the representative Breivik that it is good for Norwegian innovation skills with a diverse business life where self-employed people also play an important role. Norway should be a good country to start and develop new businesses. To fund the welfare community of the future, we need more jobs that contribute to the state fund. The government therefore presented a business start-up plan in 2015 that we have followed up with concrete actions in the budgets. We have improved access to capital at an early stage by strengthening the pre-seed fund scheme and establishing the grant scheme. We have improved access to skills by increasing the allocation of business-driven research. On the tax side, we have, among other things, reduced taxes on wealth on working capital, increased the tax FUNN and doubled the tax-free advantage of the employee's receipt of shares at a discount in the company in which the employee works. We have reduced the overall level of taxes and charges, which has also benefited entrepreneurs. It is not that self-employed people pay about NOK 30 000 more in taxes on the same income compared to employees. The total tax burden on self-employed persons is usually lower than for employees. We have this, among other things. as explained in the tax return. This is due in particular to the fact that the social security contributions are higher for workers than for traders. The higher social security contributions have to be seen in the context of workers having slightly greater rights in the social security system. While the trader pays a social security fee of 11 p.p., employees are charged a social security fee of 8.2 p.p. and indirectly with an employer’s fee of up to 14,1 pst. Formally, enterprises pay the employer’s fee. However, an employer takes into account all compensation of employees, including the employer’s fee, when assessing how much he can pay in cash to employees. It must also be assumed that the employer who employs himself in his own company also calculates the cost of the employer's fee. It is therefore reasonable to assume that it is the employees who are mainly charged the employer’s fee. It is also appropriate that workers receive a minimum deduction which is not granted to traders. The minimum deduction was introduced in its time to cover the costs incurred by employees in the work. On the other hand, traders are deducted from their actual costs. Although the minimum deduction over time has increased significantly, it is over 60 pst. by operators who receive deductions in excess of the minimum deduction. I can therefore not see that there is a basis for the claim that self-employed people pay higher taxes than normal workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e843	I thank you for the answer, and for the information about all the good actions that not least the Left has been driven along with the government to get in place during this period. So I let myself remind the Chamber that in the previous period both the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and, in part, the Christian People's Party stood together on a series of concrete proposals when it applies to the tax rules for individuals: minimum deductions, tax deductions and pension savings, investment funds for individuals, change the timing of tax payments, to name a few. Together, we undoubtedly created great expectations that something would happen in this area, giving a new plural autumn 2013. However, despite several initiatives by the Left side of the Storting, none of these actions have yet been implemented. And if the Minister of Finance thinks that Siv Jensen voted in favour of the previous period, can they self-employed expect the government to make concrete proposals during the spring session?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e850	I fully agree that the four cooperation parties have done a lot of good work together in the annual budgets that have helped to strengthen the competitive base of Norwegian business. Among other things, the changes we have made both on the tax side and in other areas have benefited both self-employed and other ways of organising companies. It's been the whole purpose. Then I fully agree with the representative Breivik that we must constantly pursue how we can improve the framework conditions for business in Norway. It is important at a time when we need to facilitate more jobs. But to the question asked by the representative Breivik: The claim of a greater tax burden for the self-employed is incorrect. But let's discuss how we can set up different types of instruments to strengthen the competitiveness of different parts of Norwegian business. I'd like to discuss that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e857	I thank you again for your answer. And to take the minister by the word, there's one thing the Stortinget has decided during this period, it's consensual on the initiative of the Left this very soon over two years ago, where we're asking the government to review the framework conditions for individuals, such as individuals. tax conditions, with a view to making concrete proposals for improvement by the government. In addition, the Stortinget decided that the government should develop a regulatory framework leading to equal treatment for individuals when it comes to social rights, taxes and taxes. The problem is that the government has so far not made a single proposal to correct the tax conditions for individuals. Nor have they taken initiatives to develop a regulatory framework that leads to greater non-discrimination. What is the explanation that the government has not yet followed up on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e866	I do not entirely agree with that claim. So we've reduced taxes by 21 billion. NOK, and claiming that it has not benefited self-employed people, I do not think it is right. Everyone in Norwegian business has benefited from the reductions that the government has achieved in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party – and to have ambitions to do more, I agree. Now the government is going to present revised budget to spring, which will be the next rounding turn to make possible changes in the budget. At the same time, we are working with the state budget for 2018, but it is also such that the major issues relating to the different rights of self-employed people are sorted under the portfolio of several government councils. I have the tax and tax responsibility. The Minister of Labour is responsible for a part of the social rights attached to this, but we have reported on this, including: in the tax communication, and we have taken seriously the decisions and formulations made by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e918	Questions 2, 3 and 4 are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Councils have left. Question 5 has been transferred to the Minister of Industry, who is correct, but is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e928	This question, from the representative of Kjersti Toppe to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative of Ivar Odnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e933	«The Sørland Hospital is now investigating the future of Flekkefjord Hospital. The process is criticised by the fact that the hospital management uses Flekkefjord hospitals' aberrations and good reporting culture as arguments that the quality of the future cannot be maintained. The National Audit Service has recently criticised the hospital-Norway for not practicing good news culture and not learning from mistakes. Does the Council of State believe that the link between the Sørlande Hospital system and its future quality is acceptable and supports good reporting culture?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e940	The government will strengthen the transparency of adverse events. There is a broad political consensus that transparency of adverse events is a necessary prerequisite for improving patient safety. All healthcare providers have in place electronic aberration systems, general guidelines for reporting and quality selection. It shows the National Audit Office’s investigation into the management of adverse events by health establishments. The study shows that the number of incidents reported in health establishments varies. There is also variation in the reporting culture between units and between job groups in the same department. Insight is given on how the manager’s attitude to reporting affects the reporting culture and the follow-up to events. The National Audit Office points out that health enterprises have areas of improvement in the use of notified events in the statutory systematic work on quality improvement and patient safety. Two considerations need to be balanced with regard to the manager’s responsibility for the follow-up of adverse events. On the one hand, managers at all levels shall facilitate a culture of transparency in which employees report adverse events without having to be concerned that this will have a negative impact on the notifying, working or branch. On the other hand, if repeated serious incidents that threaten patient safety are reported, the manager shall be responsible for taking the necessary measures to ensure adequate patient treatment. Occasionally, the type of measure may be perceived as negative by the employees. I assume that the management of the Sørlande Hospital, in cooperation with the employees, facilitates a good reporting culture in which adverse events are reported and followed up in a way that helps prevent similar events in the future. Serious incidents that challenge soundness shall be notified to the supervisory authority and followed up. Southern hospitals are now preparing a development plan as a follow-up to their national health and hospital plans. Any changes in emergency functions in the health establishment must be clarified by 1 April. Competence, quality and patient safety will be important to address this work. Regional health enterprises have developed a guide for the work of development plans leading to transparency and dialogue with municipalities and other actors. I assume that the work on the development plan for the Southern Hospital should be in line with this supervisor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e955	The process that has been taking place in the South has been strongly criticised. And professionals are tired, people have little confidence in the process. Many people experience the right process of development plans as a skin process. Putting particular emphasis on the event in Flekkefjord, which could have happened in all hospitals, and about which it is a political goal to have openness to learn from faults and such better quality, is perceived as a provocation. And this is used as an argument to put it down. Does the Council of State mean that the process at the Sørlanden hospital is good, and that in the future, it is acceptable to argue — even in the shadow of a slide — that the deviation messages mean poor quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e960	Divergence messages do not mean poor quality in themselves, but the use of the discrepancy messages in an assessment of service quality and the use of them as part of an overall assessment is, of course, part of the purpose of non-conformities. And if the deviation messages in scale or content are a warning that a driver is too risky, then it's not just something that you can use, but that you should use. With effect from 1 January, a new regulation on the management of the entire healthcare system covering both specialist and community health services, which also obliges managers at all levels to use available information on the quality of the activity for which they are responsible in the continuous improvement of the service. But one has to use it properly, where one does not undermine the reporting culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e965	There may be something that marks the process of hospital reform in the whole country, that it is demanding for those who work in the system, and that one feels that many professionals and health workers are frustrated and out of their way. In the model discussed at Flekkefjord Hospital, the surgeon must be removed, a turn candidate is left in guard, while the rear guard is in Kristiansand. When the state councils shut down Rjukan and Kragerø hospitals, one of the arguments was that the tournament dates were anxious to watch. However, unlike the proposal from the South Hospital, the Rjukan tour candidate data was quickly followed up by an experienced supervisor in the backguard who could be in place within a few minutes. One rear guard 45 minutes away is another whole thing. Can the Council of State really approve a model where turnaround candidates should be anxious about the settled responsibility for outpatient and emergency services, and is this not an argument for keeping the surgical preparedness in Flekkefjord?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e974	It is precisely for the sake of getting away from the situation we have been in for decades in Norway, namely that employees in the smaller hospitals have felt uncertainty about the hospital they work for will exist in the future, that we have developed and adopted a national health and hospital plan that states that we need the smaller hospitals for the future as well. So employees at Flekkefjord, Volda, Stord and other smaller hospitals are going to let go of what they experienced when the Senter party was in charge of hospitals in Norway, namely a continuous uncertainty about hospitals at all for the future. That uncertainty has now been overcome, and then good processes are in progress related to what should be the allocation of responsibilities within the acute area of the future. And of course, I will decide on both the way the process is carried out, and the recommendations, when the matter comes to my table, but I will do so after, for example. Health South-East has dealt with this specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e984	«In the treatment of Report by the Storting. St. 11 National Health and Hospital Plan [[2015-2016]] [[2016–2019]] Can the Council of State ensure that the Stortinge decision on local management is implemented in the hospitals of Health More and Romesdal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e991	With the National Health and Hospital Plan, the government set up a more democratic, national policy for the future hospital. The aim was to give the Storting the best possible insight into the status and challenges of specialist healthcare. The decision was adopted in the course of the year. to ask the government, through the business meeting and/or management documents, to ensure that local management becomes the general rule of hospitals. In line with the Stortinget’s request decision, I requested the company meeting on 4 May 2016 that they base their work on local plans and the operation of the specialist health service. Furthermore, I pointed out that the requirement of local management does not prevent the use of cross-sectional clinics. An appropriate division of tasks and requirements for the overall course of patients requires close cooperation and the establishment of professional and organisational networks between hospitals. In a cross-sectional clinic structure, the clinic manager must ensure that there are managers at the different geographical locations authorised to exercise local management. Regardless of organisation, good communication and closeness to the nearest manager shall be ensured. Health Mid-Norway RHF has informed the Ministry that, in the autumn of 2015, Health Møre and Romsdal carried out an evaluation of their own organisation and management of the company. The evaluation concluded that the health business had challenges and change needs related to both organisational structure and management. Health Møre and Romsdal have organized the conversion work as an organisational development project. In 2016, a process was carried out in which health business employees took part in the work of finding out how local management can best be managed within a continuous organisational model. Following a consultation round in the autumn of 2016, the health business decided to establish a level 2 cross-cutting organisational structure, establishing a new management group and ensuring local management within a cross-cutting organisational model. Health More and Romesdal will start a three-month pilot project on local management at Volda Hospital by February. The pilot project shall be evaluated when it is completed and, during 2017, a solution shall be developed to be implemented at all hospitals in More and Romesdal at the end of 2017/2018. I have faith that both Health Mid-Norway and Health Moor and Romesdal follow up Storting's intentions in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1004	Here's a lot of concepts. There are concepts that there is no obstacle to the cross-clinical structure and that one is authorised to exercise local management. The fact is that local hospital management is not a non-authorised coordinator. I ask the Council of State to answer that question. Local management is not that only one has a non-authorised coordinator. Local management is a person responsible for following up the decisions, financial responsibilities, human and professional responsibilities of the Board. During the deliberation of the National Health and Hospital Plan, the Right, Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to the Ring Kingdom Hospital, and in many cases the Council of State has referred to the Ring Reich Hospital, where there is local management. For us in the Center Party, Ringerike Hospital is a model. Why can't one use the experience of Ringerijke in More and Romesdal in providing local management with content, so that a local manager gets responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1013	Item No 1: It was not the Central Party's model of local management that the Stortinge decided. It was muffled. The mission given to the undertakings is based on what the majority of the Stortinge felt. It is absolutely right that I have referred in several contexts to Ringerijk Hospital as a good model, and I will continue to do so. But that doesn't mean that that model can only be copied and used anywhere else. In the Storting’s treatment of the health and hospital plan, the Stortinget was concerned that the organisation of local management had to take into account the different complexity and size of hospitals in Norway, the need for local management at hospitals, among others. in order to ensure good communication and closeness to the manager and that the requirement of local management does not prevent the use of cross-sectional clinics. That means that in the circular we've given in this area, which is from 2013, it says "in the starting point," etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1020	It is quite correct that it was not the model of the Centre Party that was adopted. What has been adopted is that there should be a general rule in Norwegian hospitals about local management, for which the party Right agreed. The center party wanted to have local management all the way. But there is nothing about cross-sectional clinic management in the discussion of this document. The interesting thing is that someone is now trying to establish a so-called local management without authority in More and Romesdal. It's not local management. We don't need people to take flowers -- we need people responsible for economics, staff and professional development. There are many people who understand what's happening -- that what's happening is a skin manoeuvre, where the real goal is really to facilitate a big change, where the emergency surgery is to be removed. Why can't you be honest and say that's what you want, instead of trying to manipulate this and test how far the Greatness's will can be drawn?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1029	Because that presentation is not correct, and that is why there is no reason to say what the representative here says. I mean – and it is completely in line with the leaders given by Stortinget – that there may be different models that fit in different places. It is a very important process to ensure that the models that are established are well anchored in their own organization, and that they are tested out, as one has chosen to do in Health More and Romesdal. Just by getting a pilot in Volda, an experience will be gained, and then one can use the experience to find what should be the good model that fits in More and Romesdal. One of them, of course, also draws on the experience of other health businesses in that work. That's the way this mission is followed up, and I'm sure the health regions will follow up on the mission they got from me on May 4th last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1045	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1053	‘International studies show that Norway is in decline in innovation and start-ups. However, there are exceptions: in a short time, the Norwegian learning technology industry has taken over 60 companies with well over 140 million users globally. The challenge for further growth is to ensure that new learning technologies are applied in all Norwegian schools, including: to provide adapted training to all pupils. How will the Council of State stimulate such a development, which will be both good for Norwegian students and Norwegian business?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1060	Education policy and industrial policy are sometimes closely linked, in particular in terms of teaching materials and the use of technology in schools. In fact, every day, the Directorate of Education carries out its work on the system of grants for teaching materials. Many of the digital educational resources we have in Norway have been developed with the support of this grant scheme. Innovation Norway is also an important partner for many. The Norwegian EdTech industry, or the learning technology industry, is in an exciting development. New types of digital products and resources are constantly being developed. Adaptive learning materials and learning analysis are probably areas where much will happen in the next few years. This type of learning material has particular potential for better adapted training. But I believe that there must also be a balance between investment in infrastructure, teaching skills and access to digital learning material. Both educational choices and the allocation of resources in schools are a municipal responsibility. I believe that it should also be so in the future. It is central that schools and teachers have the freedom to make good educational choices. After all, it must be the students' learning that is the leading premise for the choices the municipalities and teachers make. The skills of teachers in how ICT can be used to provide better adapted training and better student learning outcomes are a key prerequisite for the deployment of new technologies. We will therefore give priority to the competence of teachers as early as 2017. Both the technology and the requirements for the digital skills of pupils and teachers change rapidly. I want to be ambitious on behalf of both the ministry and the sector as regards the use of better learning technologies and more adapted training. I have previously announced that I will present a strategy for ICT in initial training. Without pre-empting the conclusions of the work on the ICT strategy, actions in both infrastructure, competences and educational funding are what we consider in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1071	I thank you for your answer. I'm glad the Council of State sees the possibilities that are there, and is as offensive as he is. The new law – and regulations – on public acquisitions came into force on 1 January 2017. The new legal text allows for greater use of innovative public acquisitions. But without an up-to-date guide reflecting the new law, it will be difficult for learning technology companies to deal with the new and still – we have to say – complex legislation. What will the Council of State do to ensure that learning technology companies wishing to participate in public procurement processes in the field of education are not left without sufficient guidance in order to be able to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1078	Firstly, I am very pleased that the law on public acquisitions and practices has now been clarified – amended – so that innovation can be facilitated to a greater extent. For some of the purchasing regime’s problems, ordering so specific that no innovative solutions are available, i.e. blocking new ideas, could prevent public procurement from contributing to increased innovation. This is, of course, an area under the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. But when we're going to develop a digital strategy, it's natural for us to have contact with the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, precisely because – as I said at the outset – these are some issues that are at the intersection of education policy and industrial policy. I don't know – to be completely honest – if you're going to develop a guide for this, but it's probably an important and good idea to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1087	I thank you once again for your answer. I know how complicated it can be with the law of public acquisitions, not least from my past life, as a lawyer. One of the main obstacles to the dissemination of learning technologies in Norway is the lack of competence in public procurement processes to work with small and medium-sized private enterprises. The regulatory framework often seems unnecessarily complicated and indisputable for such enterprises, while at the same time meeting little understanding of the challenge they present to a small enterprise. How will the Council of State increase the level of competence of private business in Norwegian public procurement processes, so that lack of competence is at least not the key to remedy, including: using learning technology in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1096	I understand that part of this question is in public procurement, and that is to a large extent something that is not in my department. But if you circle it into the EdTech industry and learning tools, we have written in the big news about the innovation, which was being treated now, a lot about electronic learning materials and learning materials in general. I do not want to go back to the old state educational qualification system, but we have said that we want to develop some of what is available in Denmark, namely a better guidance tool for schools, so that when you have to choose locally at each school or in the municipality, for example. the purchase of digital tools and learning materials is a little bit more ‘discovered’ about the landscape, and some tools to help you not only automatically choose what is solid and old.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1107	This question, from Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Fisheries, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is directing the issue. However, the question is answered by the Minister of Health and Health on behalf of the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1112	The question is: ‘In January, a specimen of the rare goose bwal was found with 30 plastic bags in the stomach of Hordaland. This illustrates how marine nesting is a global threat to life in the sea and thus also a fundamental threat to Norwegian seafood. Today, the fishing and farming industry is a source of marine litter. At the same time, the industry has the equipment and infrastructure needed to be part of the solution. What will the Council of State do to protect life in the sea and the future of Norwegian seafood?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1121	Although all the effects of marine pollution are still unknown, there is a broad consensus that this is a serious environmental problem. Micro- and nanoplastics are broken down very slowly. Marine litter and microplastics are primarily an international problem requiring global solutions. According to the UN's new sustainability targets for the sea, marine pollution will have to be significantly reduced by 2025. Waste is transported by sea currents from other countries and continents. More than half of the plastic waste in the sea is estimated to come from a few countries in southeastern Asia, including Asia. Indonesia and China. International work is therefore essential to succeed in reducing marine pollution. Further work in, inter alia: The UN system, the EU and the Nordic Councils are becoming important. Norway has taken on a driving role here. This has been quite natural for us as a resource-powerful and, not least, central port that is totally dependent on a good marine environment. We know that there are many sources of marine litter, of which plastics make up the largest proportion. Marine nutrition depends on a clean and rich sea in order to harvest and produce food. In some cases, the fishing and farming industry also contributes to catering, e.g.: from non-removal old mussel systems and unwanted loss of fishing gear. At international level, various initiatives are being taken to combat marine litter and microplastics. Norway has been passed through the United Nations Environment Assembly to review existing international legislation to see if it is sufficient. The EU has adopted legislation to reduce the use of plastic bags, and this will be implemented in Norway. The Ministry of Climate and Environment will have a dialogue with industry actors, the waste industry and the daily food industry on how to achieve the objective of reducing plastic bags use. Under the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2017, Norway has put marine siphoning and microplastics in the sea at the top of the agenda. We collaborate professionally on projects, including: to reduce loss of fishing gear, reduce microplastic inputs to the sea and identify microplastics in marine animals in Nordic countries. Although the contribution to marine pollution from Norway is low in a global context, there is a need to strengthen the response to marine pollution in Norway as well. This is why the Environment Directorate has now proposed new measures that they believe will be effective in reducing marine litter and microplastic inputs. As a follow-up, the Directorate shall, inter alia: draw up proposals for a producer liability scheme for the fishery and farming industry. The Environment Directorate is also commissioned to initiate cooperation with municipalities and road authorities in order to reduce the proportion of microplastic articles entering the environment as a result of tyre wear. The fishing and farming industry is constantly working to reduce its contribution to marine pollution. Fishermen have volunteered in the environmental authorities’ pilot project Fishing for Litter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1142	Thank you to the Minister for Health for a good answer, where he, among other things, describes the core problem: the rapidly growing microplastic problem, which will also become a health problem in a short time. We asked the question to the Minister for Fisheries because microplastics development could become a fundamental threat to Norwegian seafood, and we find with wonder that the Minister for Fisheries does not answer the question and even transfer it to the Minister for the Environment, as if it did not concern him. The government has announced that they will address the microplastics problem, following instructions from Stortinget, in a circular economy notification. But that message has not been notified until June, which probably means it will not be dealt with by this magnificence. Is the Minister of Health satisfied that this is the government's progress on such an important issue – which also concerns his own area – as plastic and microplastic pollution?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1149	I feel that I, but not least the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has the overall responsibility for this issue, and also the Minister for Fisheries, am involved in this issue. We have also worked across the board and engaged in this matter. The Minister for Fisheries has, among other things: selected to give priority to this and to grant funds to extend the project Fishing for Litter in 2017, allowing fishermen and others on a permanent basis to deliver waste they have collected at sea, free of charge – it will now be investigated. The Directorate of Fisheries also implements the annual clean-up of lost fishing gear. The Ministry of Climate and Environment received a report from the Environment Directorate in December on the issue of microplastics, to which one in the Department should take a rapid stand. The report proposes a number of responses to different sources of microplastics.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1154	I then find that the Minister of Health does not answer the question of why the government is promoting microplastic control measures so late. But the Minister of Health pointed out very correctly in his first post that the plastic problem is a global problem that can only be solved globally, and that is – I can add – a problem that is going to grow over our heads if we don't do very much with it very quickly. Progress in international negotiations is very slow. The Green Party's proposal for Norway to take the initiative of an international convention regulating the use and production of plastics was voted down in the Stortinget, including by the government parties. The question is: What does the Minister of Health think is a good enough progress from the Norwegian side to address the plastic problem that not only threatens the oceans in general but also Norwegian interests, including Norwegian business interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1159	As I said in my original answer, I feel that this is a matter in which Norway has an international driving role and has gained an international impact for important work. Norway will continue to be a driving force in this effort to keep pace, precisely because Norway is a port, and we are totally dependent on taking care of the environment in our seas for environmental reasons, but also because the sea is one of our most important resources to create and maintain safe jobs in Norway. This means that in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, but also in the other departments responsible for this area, this issue is high on the agenda. We work on international work, but also on the follow-up to the various actions in Norway. Then it is that even if a big message is presented in June, it is also a big one for the autumn, so the message will probably be processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1169	‘Over several decades, various governments have had more or less binding wordings to strengthen the social rights of entrepreneurs. However, a little has been done. Self-employed people pay a higher social security tax than those of us who are in employment. Nevertheless, the far worse conditions apply to sickness, occupational injury and illness, unemployment, compensation of employees and pensions. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure better arrangements for self-employed persons?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1176	Self-employed persons have essentially the same rights to the large-scale pension schemes as old-age pensions, redundancy benefits, disability benefits and parental death benefits. Employers’ and social security contributions contribute partly to the financing of social security. Self-employed people only pay social security contributions. The contribution from self-employed persons is thus lower than the total contribution from the employer and the employee. Both Proba Societal analysis and the Joint Economic Committee reports conclude that the advantages of self-employed workers with lower taxes on their entrepreneurial income outweigh the compensation for poor income compensation in the event of sickness and lack of rights in the event of loss of gainful employment. During the 2015 budget agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the autumn of 2014, self-employed persons also received the same entitlement to care allowance and care allowance from the people's rights. Last year, they improved the possibility of combining activities with the receipt of daily allowances. There's now one thing, Prop. 37 L, for treatment in Stortinget, which will also provide better compensation for sickness for self-employed workers who are also freelancers. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1185	There are several aspects of the tax system that make self-employed persons not particularly well-off, including: that they do not have the option of minimum deductions, as employees have. But we're glad that, together with the government, we've been able to strengthen the right to care money and make them equal. It's an important thing they've done in this period. However, what we have not done is to ensure self-employed better rights to private pension savings. Today, it is true that ordinary employees, who are expected to save up to NOK 650,000 a year, can save up to 7 pst. of income tax-free for private pension savings. For self-employed persons, the limit is 4 pst. There is a difference for which it is very difficult to understand the reason for – not least given that self-employed people normally have nothing to lean on other than popularism when it comes to retirement. Will the government take the initiative to ensure self-employed better entitlement to private pension savings?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1192	Now the President sees that the Council of State got too few minutes to answer the first question, so if the Council of State wants to use more time in its second answer, there's full opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1197	Thank you so much for that. I thought the time was running very fast, so it was good to get it clarified. It is correct, as the representative Rotevatn says, that self-employed persons are not covered by the compulsory occupational pension scheme, as workers are. However, self-employed persons have the right to set up an occupational pension scheme under the Pensions Act, but with conditions different from those applicable to workers, which the representative was also in. The Banking Law Commission’s proposal on gender equality between self-employed and employees in this area is now under assessment in the Ministry of Finance – which is therefore under a department other than mine – where the scheme is assessed against other parts of the tax and pension system. In that case, it will be the Minister of Finance who will have to come back to a status update on it. However, as I mentioned in my main response, there are today large schemes of self-employed workers. There have been improvements in the social rights of this period, as a result of the budgetary agreement between the Christian People's Party and the Left, but also on the initiative of the government. It's important to improve, or at least to reduce the barriers to establishing people's businesses. We want more people to set up their own businesses. Whether we are going to do something about the pension scheme, which the representative was in, almost the Minister of Finance has to respond to in the follow-up to the selection work that is now in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1206	It is good that self-employed people are entitled to redundancy benefits and disability benefits, but it does not help when it comes to the question of pensions. It is true that the Banking Law Commission has recommended equality, but as far as I am concerned, he is quite many years old now, and still little has happened. I note that the Council of State will not now justify discrimination. Nor have I seen that this government or previous governments have grounds for satisfaction. In the end, however, I will move on to a new theme here, and that applies to sick pay. Today, we see a great gender difference in the case of those who establish themselves as self-employed. There are far more men than women who are self-employed and set up a limited liability company. What is highlighted by many people is that sickness benefits are weak, especially if you have to wait two weeks before you get some sick money. Ein has the opportunity to buy better dishes within Nav, a health insurance, but it's very expensive, and only 10 pst. benefits from it. Will the Council consider delaying the cost of drawing such an additional insurance?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1213	It is true that self-employed people have fewer rights. This is related to not being an employee. If you are a self-employed person, you do not pay the employer’s share, you also have fewer rights than if you had been a worker, because the payment there is larger. As the representative is also inside, you can take out an insurance that will improve it somewhat. As I also had in my first answer, both Proba's analysis and the Joint Economic Committee's report, which came this week, say that the sum of the tax benefits is greater than the disadvantages of the social rights. But it is clear that at a time when we want more people to set up their own businesses, and we want more women to set up their own businesses, the social rights too will be something to be seen. But full equality may not be possible, all the time you pay less. At the same time, it is important to remember that there are several ways to organise their business, which will also affect access to rights, if it is itself important for those who want to establish themselves. If you organise yourself as a single-member company, you can charge your salary. Then you will also have full rights as an employee. The fact that others do not choose to organise themselves in this way may be related to the tax burden they receive at that time — there may be different assessments on the basis of which they are based. But I agree, as I have said, that it is important to reduce barriers. It might not be full equality, all the time you pay differently, but we're obviously open to looking at further improvements. Some improvements have already been made during this period in terms of access to daily allowances when establishing one’s own activities. Then you'll have to consider whether it should be done further on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1223	This question, from the representative of Kari Henriksen to the Minister for Justice and Security, will be answered by the Minister for Immigration and Integration, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1228	‘In the media we read about a single minor sent out of the country by coercion, where very invasive coercive substances have been used over a long period of time. What action will the Council of State take to ensure that the best interests of children are taken in such situations and to prevent minors from being subjected to incurable mental or physical harm?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1235	Where minors are transported out, the process shall be as gentle as possible and the best of the child shall always be taken into account. This is throughout the police's work, and it follows from the fourth paragraph of Section 3 of the International Ordinance on Foreign Affairs that the best interests of the child shall be a fundamental consideration of all decisions and actions relating to children staying at the boarding school. This also applies to the use of power, and the provision complies with Article 3(3) of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. 1st@item: inlistbox The specific case refers to the representative of the magnificence, not to a lone minor, but to a youth who was apprehended with his parents. I don't want to comment on the individual matter any more here. The use of power and security cell deployment is a very interventional measure. It follows explicitly from the legislation that power should only be used when strictly necessary. Medical opinion shall be obtained and taken into account, as far as possible, in assessing the implementation and maintenance of the measure. In the case of minors in particular, power must be used with caution. The threshold for placing minors on the safety cell is and shall be very high. Information on the use of power shall be recorded and made available to the Board of Supervisors. All situations of up-to-date use of power have to be dealt with individually, but in general it has to be such that the police cannot stop these kinds of actions. It would be a very unfortunate contagion and, in some cases, could lead to increased trauma and stress through the need for re-injection and a new return process shortly after. I know that the police attach great importance to solving the demanding task of transporting goods in a good and professional way. In addition, we have a supervisory board of our own, and I trust that legal certainty is well maintained. My assessment is that current legislation and practices are well-suited, also to deal with demanding situations where there is a need for power use.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1250	Thank you for the answer, which makes clear the seriousness of this matter, and the difficult ethical, moral and legal questions associated with it. An important task of asylum and immigration policy is precisely to avoid conflicts and measures, prevent and reduce the fears and uncertainties of asylum seekers and of the citizens of Norway. The framework is just international conventions and the laws and regulations we have. As pointed out by the Council of State, there are pre-conditions that the strictest enforcement measures should be implemented, and the Children’s Ombudsman has questioned whether this has happened in this case. We are not going to refer this matter individually, but can the Council of State guarantee to Stortinget that the police in these cases have always considered less intrusive measures, as they are going to do under the rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1258	I assume that the police will follow the applicable legislation. Then it's clear that these are very difficult things. When you stand in the middle of it and it's about people who might be at risk to themselves or others, there might be a need for very interventional measures. It may be that he cuts himself, threatens to take his own life, or tries – or threatens – to choke himself. There may be intrusion of furnishings in the cell with faeces and urine; there may be the stamping of the head in the wall, which may mean that he is endangering himself. In those cases where this is used, it is as a last resort because it is a danger to itself or others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1262	But I fully agree with the representative that this should be used as rarely as possible, and that one should always look for other ways to solve these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1265	It's true that there are difficult situations, and that there can be both momentary events and events that can last for some time, which can be challenging for everyone implicating. Nor is there any suspicion that the police do not want to do the best possible job. But what I'm asking is, what steps has the Council of State taken to document this thoroughly and to learn from your experience? These reports include: For example, the Ombudsman stated that: Trandum is not good enough, coming regularly. So what concrete signals has the Council of State given to the police to ensure that there is good evidence that the concern for children should be taken into account? What elements in the consideration assessment are assigned the most or less weight? What has the Council of State done for the police and the agency to learn from the things we've heard in the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1272	What applies to Trandum is the legislation underpinning the space for action they have out there. That's what they have to follow up, and that's what we're, of course, concerned about doing. In the cases where the Civil Ombudsman is in, they will in many cases respond to the circumstances that arise, and Trandum then goes through its routines and evaluates them. In this context, it is always necessary to consider whether there are things that can be done differently. It's something that we're really serious about. But I think it's important to stress that there will always be difficult things on Trandum, simply because those who are there are in a very difficult situation. They've had their dreams shattered in Norway. They want to be in Norway but are to be transported by force. Therefore, there will always be demanding situations for employees out there. But I'm glad that the feedback from those who are there is essentially that the employees do a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1279	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-08.ana.ud65e1291	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
