ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e113	The representatives of Geir Adelsten Iversen, Ingerd Schou and Ulf Leirstein, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the West-Agder counties: Mathias Bernander For Troms County: Katrine Boel Gregussen For Eastfold counties: Rowena von Ohle Four permit applications are available: from the representative of Audun Lysbakken on sick leave from 11 December until further notice by the Workers' Group on sickness leave of the representative Jette F. Christensen from 11 December until further notice by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave of the representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen from 11 December until further notice by the Central Party Group on Welfare Permit of the representative Jenny Klinge from 11 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For East Agder counties: Ingelinn Lossius-Skeie For the province of Hordaland: Leif Audun Sande and Gina Knutson Barstad For More and Romesdal County: Geir Inge Line
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e200	Ingelinn Lossius-Skeie, Leif Audun Sande, Gina Knutson Barstad and Geir Inge Lien are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e211	The representative of Mr Lene Vågslid will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e216	I would like to make a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Jan Bøhler, Maria-Karine Aasen-Svensrud and myself to change the timing of the assessment of victims of violence in readmission cases from being the time of the aggravating action to the time of the conviction and to give retroactive effect to the legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e221	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1, 3 and 4 are dealt with together, and that case no. 2 is then treated. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e265	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes, Red 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government and three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e276	There are many things in the state budget and in the budget agreement between the cooperation party that there is little reason to applaud. The Central Party has submitted an alternative state budget with a completely different job and value creation effort than the four co-operation parties. Not least: it is an alternative budget which, unlike the cooperation party budget, has not targeted measures to weaken individual industries in Norway. The centre party rejects the VAT increase for the tourism industry. After we had dealt with the travel news, we waited for a bet on travel life. The proposal to reduce taxes on wealth has not been submitted by the government, but they have provided a good deal of added value for VAT for the tourism industry. In three years, travel life has increased by 50 pst. The centre party rejects targeted measures to weaken the food industry through strong tightening of low-performing taxes such as the chocolate and confectionery levies – for 2 billion. kr marks the enterprises. The centre party rejects schemes to subsidise cross-border trade by providing for VAT exemptions for a significant part of the online cross-border trade. The cooperation party clearly believes that this makes sense. What we need is targeted measures for Norwegian business. The cooperation party has targeted measures for Swedish business. The centre party also refuses to put Norwegian seafarers on land. There is no longer any reason to open the Kiel journeys for registration in the Norwegian International Ship Register. So here it's like one with an eye open to replace Norwegian seafarers well with foreign seafarers. The government is very busy with the solution, and that's good. There is an important measure of how things are going in the Norwegian economy, especially in the short term. But after the view of the Center Party, we have to look at several aspects when we're going to evaluate our ability to create values in the future. Among other things, we need to look at the investments we have in the mainland industry. The central party will claim that the level here is too low, and it should worry the government to a greater extent than it does. The centre party is busy building an industry for the future. It has to be, for example: invests heavily in Norway in the future. The long-term defence plan and the national transport plan are examples of two heavy investment plans. The centre party will use these plans to build the Norwegian industry around the implementation of these plans. In the city we see passivity. Norwegian workspaces do not seem to have any significant significance. Today we can read in Trender-Avisa that the government has invited a Chinese entrepreneur to Norway to look at the possibilities for road construction. I see that the Minister of Industry and the Prime Minister have refused to invite the Chinese, but we also read that the Chinese thank you very much for the invitation. So how this has been perceived, I expect the Minister of Industry might come into the debate. New Roads build roads in the South, new big offers – results: only foreign providers. This is not the way to build up under value creation and business in Norway. We can always shop a little bit cheaper solutions from abroad. The problem is that in the long term this can be expensive, and it will build down Norwegian business, it will build up Norwegian competence. The central party will lead a policy of value creation across the country. So it's so important for us to give people access to broadband, even where they live. So we're not fooling ourselves with regional means of development. We are investing in regional development funds. For this reason, we meet the national transport plan, but we also have a strong commitment to the county road network. The centre party doesn't only believe in Norway. We believe in Norway as a whole. In the state budget, agriculture is also settled from in our follow-up. It was an agricultural affair that was carried out in what I would call a critical way, and it is the Council of State's responsibility. The size had set a target of reducing income differences between agriculture and other groups. It was not followed up by the government, and we also had the extraordinary situation that in a broken situation the council was out and said what was his last offer. The objective of reducing the income gap was not met either. Nor did it do the final proposal that one got in the Stortinget, from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. There is a scheme for increasing income differences between agriculture and other groups. For the Centre Party, it is important to stress that it is a real objective to reduce income disparities and to raise the income of the farmer, and then the policy through the agricultural policy must follow it up. I am pleased that we have a plural position on the information offices and two clear decisions there. I have to say that it is quite inconceivable that the Stortinget and the Council of State should go in to determine how Norwegian farmers themselves use their own funds. So we think it's right to evaluate this. I believe that agriculture itself also means, and that in such an evaluation, one will look at how the information offices can place greater emphasis on concerns such as the environment, health, climate, etc. I'm very happy about that. It's been a budgetary process where 4H has once again cheered. It has been a rule that the government cuts to 4H, and that the Left and Christian People's Party brings back something of the means. But in sum, the conditions for an organisation like 4H are worse today than they were in 2013. Fisheries policy is not a very central part of the state budget. It's not a classic condominium, but it's also here that the government has been able to find room for some small cuts. Looking at the farming industry, aquaculture, we've had a weak growth in volume in recent years. We're getting a farm fund. There is considerable uncertainty about how much money the municipalities will get from it. Governments travel around and distribute money and notify municipalities of what they will receive. When Stortinget asks questions, the Council of State is not ready to answer. There must be openness and clarity here, and one must communicate the same to Stortinget as one communicates to the municipalities of the country. I would like us to have room for an area tax in this year's state budget, that we have a decision on it, simply because I believe it is necessary to achieve the growth that a political majority wants in the aquaculture industry. There is neither the proposal of the government nor the budget agreement, nor any other party, including the Central Party, has made concrete proposals on it. But I want to notify you that it is not a matter that has been put away. If we are to measure, the municipalities must be given a greater share of the value creation and stimulated for value creation. At the end of my speech, of course, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Cooperation. I think we have delivered a clean and proper attitude, which makes both political unity and political disunity visible. We've formed multiple numbers to adjust and comment on some of the suggested requests. I'm very happy that it was possible to get it through a collaboration in the committee. And then I'm going to take up the suggestions that the Central Party has put forward together with the other party. When it comes to the additional propositions from both: when it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, to changes in the state budget for 2017, there is a very brief comment on the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. When it comes to the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, the Committee has a note on Andyya Space Center, which builds up under what the government writes, and perhaps it also reinforces a little. In addition, the Central Party has an own proposal, which I also take up, on a change in the current year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e316	The representative Geir Pollestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e323	I think the representative Pollestad will agree with me that one of the most important things we can do is secure the farmer's role as a self-employed person through good framework conditions. They've had it in recent years, as we can read from both the increase in profitability and the reduction of soil redisposal. However, it is a challenge for those who run the land, that there are so many rules on the disposal of their own property that if the screw is now tightened further, there will be an open question as to whether it is the farmers who dispose of their own property or whether it is the State that disposes of it. It is therefore with some wonder that I read that the Central Party is involved in a comment in this budget chapter that points towards banning options. That's a good way to make sure when, for example: sells some land to another farmer and wants to ensure, in view of the fact that no others come in, that the authorisation is granted or that the income with which a financing scheme might give rise to problems is secured. I record that in this case the Centre Party does not trust that the farmers are able to make such decisions about their operations and do what is best for themselves, the food security, the farm and the generation perspective. The question is therefore: has the Central Party, in connection with the State budget, made any proposals that will help to give the farmer greater power over his own property, or is one only interested in making it more difficult to be master or... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e332	It's too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e337	I thank you for the question. Firstly, I find it difficult to see what tightening is done in the right of the farmer to dispose of his own property – with one exception, and that is the proposal of the government to ban the cultivation of ants. There we talk about an intervention in the court the farmer has to dispose of his own property. When it comes to soil protection, it's a national responsibility, the community's responsibility, because the farmer has always recognized that owning land brings both duties and justice. One of the duties is to take care of the food for future generations. I feel that both single farmers and farmers' organisations want a stronger protection of the soil, and that one would also like to see whether a greater degree of limitation on the possibility of having option agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e344	I wonder how pleased the representative Pollestad is about the state budget. The centre party has repeatedly raised the sugar charge as a very important matter for them – that it should be increased. The budgetary agreement now agrees that this should be done. I expect that the representative Pollestad is very satisfied – or is this part of the usual double communication that the Center Party stands for?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e349	This is not a double communication in the whole, because the central part – which I also tried to get in my post – is very busy with fickle conditions for business. The idea behind the tax settlement was that we wanted to contribute to the precautionary conditions, and then there came such tax bombs as a skipper to get the budget to go into business. The centre party has an exposure to a healthy diet and for us to reduce sugar consumption. Developments are going the right way, but our commitment is to reduce sugar consumption. The commitment of the four cooperation parties is to ensure that the budget is linked. There are two completely different things. In our alternative budget, we do not have this levy in place, simply because it does not comply with the objective of a prudent industrial policy. A business policy towards the food industry is unreserved, just as one has an unreserved policy towards the tourism industry. Two industries that have great potential have this budget house yet to get each one's fee bomb in the head of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e356	I agree that it is relatively predictable, what the centre party comes with, because the appeal song is basically the same, regardless of the forum. What I think is a little special is that based on what I thought about the Central Party before this budget and before this year – and now Chinese people were mentioned, and I'm well aware of the project that has been in the Nord-Trundellag, to say it a little simple – it's a little surprising that it's now suddenly not so close how many meters of road are being built. It is not recognizable, although it was perhaps more a problem that the county council in Nord-Trøndelag did not understand how the tender systems were to be designed, and that the centre party was then in the process of getting significantly less money. Is it the new policy of the Central Party now, that one likes to cry out for more in some contexts, but when it comes to the problem, isn't it so careful?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e365	The centre part will have more roads. That is what our budget is asking for. But we want decent pay and working conditions in Norway. We want to have a working life that allows us to use Norwegian competence when we invest as much public money as it does, for example. in road construction. As I also said in my post: Yes, it is always possible to get it cheaper from abroad. It's always possible to get others to solve our problems. But in the long term, such a policy will be very expensive. We want to strengthen our skills in construction industries in Norway. We want to have a lack of contracts and a contract strategy and a procurement strategy that facilitates small, medium-sized and large Norwegian entrepreneurs. But it's actually not a goal for the Center Party that there should be Chinese and road traffic in Norway, and we strongly respond to the news that has emerged today in Trønder-Avisa – if she votes – that the Minister of Industry has invited these actors to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e373	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e378	One of the greatest challenges we have to face is that we need more work and fewer social security. We have many opportunities – great natural resources, well-educated people – but those opportunities need to be exploited. The future will come soon. We need to build skills, secure the opportunities that a new era offers for business. We are therefore impatient after a much stronger commitment to digitisation, automation and robotization. It's about the future, about making use of the opportunities. We are therefore more committed to building the skills that industry will need, from ensuring that more people complete secondary education, to coding in primary school, stronger and more adapted vocational education and training, and a much stronger commitment to lifelong learning as a new skills reform – to mention something that will be crucial for the future business life. Safe, good and forward-looking jobs are fundamental to people's life and security. Work for all is therefore one of the main efforts of the Workers' Party in its alternative state budget. We believe that the policy must facilitate far more powerful job growth than is the case now. That's why we're proposing a £2.5 billion bet. to create new jobs and to get more from social security to work. We focus on marine industries, environmental technologies and new industries such as bioeconomy and health and welfare technologies. We put several hundred million dollars on the table to develop business in the districts. We propose a much better option tax than the government proposed, which was met with massive criticism. We will set up a regional accelerator programme to strengthen the access to capital for growth enterprises. And in addition, outside the budget we are now discussing, we are placing carbon capture in industry and more funds for regional development. Business policy has not contributed to job growth. In the last four years, conversion has been a mantra in the celebrations and as a comment at a low oil price, but the content and the conversion power have been totally absent. Simplification must be a central element of business policy, and it is very unfortunate that the government does not follow up the Storting decision on a strategy to achieve ‘only once’. Seven out of ten establishments do not experience that everyday life is simpler after four years with the simplification work of the Right-wing Party Government. It shows a study directed by Working. The study shows that 68 pst. The number of rules and reporting requirements of member companies is now as high as four years ago. Almost every three activities – 28 pst. – says there has been more bureaucracy. There is every reason to ask yourself if the simplification work has stopped. Therefore, the so-called ‘one-time principle only’ strategy is of major importance to business. It's about making everyday life easier for those who do business. The same should happen with business contacts with the instrument. It should be a national objective that entrepreneurs and businesses should have one contact person to deal with officially coordinated support apparatus. It should be sufficient to open only one door. We are therefore promoting, together with the SV and the Centre Party, the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive review of the industrial policy instrument in order to ensure seamless instruments throughout the innovation chain.’ We don't get a majority, won't we? Norway is a proud maritime nation with proud seafarers. During 2018, nearly 700 seafarers may be replaced by foreign teams if Color Line flag the two Kiel ferries from the NOR to NIS register. While NOR-registered ships have to comply with Norwegian rules on wage and salary fixing, NIS-registered ships may employ crews under local conditions. We are therefore promoting a proposal, also there with the Centre Party and SV, asking the government ‘not to extend the area of international ferries in the Norwegian International Ship Register’, because this is reason to assume that Norwegian taxpayers will pay tens of millions of kroner in support of these ships being able to take other EEA citizens on board as compensation for Norwegian seafarers. Understand that, whoever can, and understand the position of the Progress Party in this matter – the Progress Party, which has been the strong defenders of the net pay system for many years. This development concerns us, of course. It is about employment, but it is also about the legitimacy of the net pay scheme that applies to Norwegian seafarers. The activity of coastal shipyards would be much better. Four years have passed since the recession came on us – four years without any improvement. Something is caused by a low oil price and a decrease in activity as a result of it, but everything can't be hung on that knee. One of the areas where much more effort could have been made is electrification through a large-scale renewal of the ferry fleet. Renewal with strict new requirements would give Norwegian shipyards and Norwegian competence a unique opportunity for technology development, empowerment and work in a demanding time. But the government has not invested in this, as the situation required. We have invested – from the opposition – much more than the government in this area, because we believe it is good climate policy and crucial for increased activity in the maritime industries, not least in order to maintain employment at our offices. Another issue in shipping is that we have over time had a systematic commitment to more climate-friendly shipping through the use of LNG. Until now, Norway has been a leader. It is therefore most strange that the government is now proposing a change to the framework conditions, by introducing a full CO 2 tax in this area. We are absolutely sure that this will stop technology development, increase emissions from Norwegian shipping and weaken the competitiveness of an overall Norwegian maritime industry. There is reason to believe that new projects are now being stopped. Ships with LNG as their propulsion are added to berths, while older diesel and oil ships are fired – understand that, whoever can. We therefore oppose the proposed increase in the CO 2 tax by the government in this area. In order to make the path of the low-carbon society easier for business, the environmental technology system is of great importance. This is a well-functioning low-threshold service for enterprises to invest in environmental and climate technologies. In our alternative state budget, we therefore proposed a significant strengthening of the scheme, with 250 million. kr, because we want to help businesses and businesses to put into practice and further develop climate and environmental technologies that can bring us into the low-carbon society. If we look at Svalbard, the government has now announced that it will start decommissioning coal operations there. The government justifies this from an economic perspective. We believe that coal mining at Svalbard also has a climate and environmental perspective, which the Committee also agreed to. We support – with this justification – the phasing-out of coal operations. But at the time of the liquidation, there should have been a comprehensive plan showing the way forward to Longyearbyen as a robust family society. In addition, it is strange that the government does not say anything about the energy supply at Svalbard. Decommissioning the coal industry raises the question of future energy carriers. It is urgent to clarify the future energy supply of Svalbard and the Committee sets out the objective of sustainable and renewable future energy production. We assume that the government will follow this up and have a case filed for Stortinget as soon as possible. There are posts coming from us later that will take care of both fisheries and agriculture, but let me just underline a few points. There is a need for a comprehensive fisheries policy. It's a great opportunity to create added values. We believe that a complete case for Stortinget will help establish long-termity and predictability, and we could draw up new opportunities. As far as agriculture is concerned, I would like to highlight in particular the need for the vitalisation of the forest industry. New areas must be industrialised and must be invested. In this respect, the government has failed to be either predictable or long-term enough to secure investment. Among other things, we have said at 40 pst. biofuels in 2030 would be the most important single measure to raise investments in sustainable biofuel production, but also absolutely necessary in the climate accounts. Unfortunately, we have not received a majority. Weak job growth needs to be replaced and replaced by a greater success of the good ideas. We need to pursue a much more active industrial policy based on the amazing opportunities we have. We have to do more than we can now, assist businesses by being good partners for business and the good ideas. We need to develop skills and test arenas. We need to reduce risks and create added value out of the amazing natural resources that are, all over the country. It is then absolutely necessary that the weak industrial policy of the government, which does not contribute well enough to job growth, be replaced by a much more offensive policy for safe, forward-looking jobs. Finally, I would also like to thank the Committee for its good and constructive work on the budget, and I would like to raise the proposal from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e427	The representative of Terje Aasland has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e434	The working party has a note notifying them that they will vote against any proposal for power to sell and sell state ownership, except for the sale of SAS, which is unfounded. In other words, the Labour Party believes that today's ownership is perfect, one has found a balance, and this has to be cemented for all future. I wonder, how did the Workers' Party come up with this? What theories or model are behind calculations that allow the Workers' Party to conclude that state ownership is right where it should be? For example, why is 49.72 pst perfect? ownership interest in Entra – why would not 49,5 or 50,5 pst. were correct? And if the representative has time in his answer, why doesn't this resistance to sales and sales apply to SAS?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e441	Thank you for the question. Let me first say that the Labour Party's ownership policy is based on a flexible and dynamic exercise of ownership and also such an attitude towards ownership. We haven't written that the current ownership is perfect. On the contrary, we believe that there is a basis for thinking adjustments, looking at this in a larger context. But we believe that the powers that are given to the government for sale in full or in part, the government can present to the Stortinget if these are individual matters. As far as SAS is concerned, we believe that it is reasonable and obvious. It has been so demanding for the Norwegian State over a long time that it is now right to maintain the sales authorisation that is there. As I said, the Labour Party has not said that the exact ownership we have today is perfect. On the contrary, we are in favour of both a flexible and dynamic approach to ownership, but it must serve industry and industrial development for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e450	I thought it was interesting, what was said by the previous replicator. I could imagine giving the representative Aasland an opportunity to elaborate a little bit more on what the percentages are, and how to get to them with that ownership if one is so to the degrees opposite – he calls it dynamic, I'm a little uncertain on what percentage it would be on. What is the overall goal of the Workers' Party? Is it to be part of and create, or is it that all ownership should be stately?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e455	Let me say that for the Workers' Party, state ownership is an important part of industrial policy. It's through state ownership and how we rig the state ownership, we can develop a lot of Norwegian business. We have not taken a decision on any percentage, and I assume that the left has not done so either. At least what percentages have not been declared by the Left either. I haven't said that we should rank the companies or set an exact percentage for them. We have said that we want a dynamic and flexible approach to ownership, but this must be specifically justified on a case-by-case basis. The general authority given to the government, we don't think that's a good enough reason. Therefore, we do not want to give the general access to sales and sales to the government, and that proxy proposal. On the contrary, we want to deal with it on a case-by-case basis, so that we can see the whole of the issues, and that we can also assess how much ownership the state should have on a case-by-case basis, in a better way than what we can do in a budgetary position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e462	On 9 August 2010, Aker Seafoods was authorised by the Minister of Fisheries of the Workers' Party at that time to restructure its activities. After approval, Aker Seafoods was split into two limited liability companies through Sea Fish ASA and Norway Seafoods AS. So you separated the side of the sea from the land. This, in turn, resulted in the location of the trawler company, which was administered by Melbu and Stamsund, in the West and in Ålesund. When the Workers' Party is so clear on the bet on the sea space, does the representative Aasland think that this was a decision that was good for the sea space, North Norway and the coastal communities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e467	There should be no doubt that the Workers' Party has had many discussions in the wake of that case from 2010. It is not obvious that it was a good solution, on the contrary, I believe that the discussions that have been there indicate that this was a discussed solution also in the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e472	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e477	The government has managed Norway safely over a demanding period of time. Now the arrows are pointing up again, and this shows that the government's active fiscal policy with temporary package of measures has worked as intended in recent years. An economic downturn has turned to an economic upturn, and this has got footholds all over the country. In order to ensure well-being, more profitable jobs need to be created that contribute to the economy of Norway and not just jobs to be paid by AS Norway. The government has therefore provided a budget that provides the basis for economic growth, more jobs and a sustainable welfare society. The Norwegian kroner have been marked weaker since the oil price fell. There is a clear advantage for export companies, oil business suppliers and other companies facing competition from abroad in the Norwegian domestic market. Adaptation to improved competitiveness takes time, but tourism and aquaculture are good examples of industries that have had strong growth in turnover and which provide important jobs in District Norway. The government's offensive attitude and instruments have contributed to the creation of new jobs. Two out of three jobs are now created in private business. The registered unemployment rate has fallen every month this year, compared with last year's notices to far fewer companies of leave or dismissals. The state budget for 2018 now exceeds 4.5 billion. kr more for industrial research and innovation than in 2013, including the estimated tax deductions for the TAX FUNN scheme and the Capital FUNN. CapitalFUNN is a new tax incentive scheme for investments in start-up companies. Good for 1 billion. The overall increase is the strengthening of programmes and schemes in Norway’s Research Councils, SIVA and Innovation Norway. More research and development of new goods in business provides value creation and growth through the development of new goods and services, production methods and solutions. Tomorrow's jobs are created by focusing on knowledge, research and innovation. Since its accession, the government has made a strong commitment to some of the nationwide instruments within the instrumentation. This has led to a significant strengthening of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries budget for instruments such as the User-led Innovation Arena and FORNY2020 in the Norwegian Research Council and the establishment of grant and environmental technology schemes in Innovation Norway. These instruments have a high innovation impact; they are well-established and well-known to business. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, the government ensures that until next year we also have a government budget that provides the basis for a sustainable welfare society. The budgetary agreement between the four civil parties continues the main profile of the government's submitted budget and at the same time strengthens an already strong and active industrial policy. Technological developments are fast-moving. We live in the age of robots, we all hear about digitization and automation and 3D. Any enterprise wishing to compete with and with ambitions to compete on the world market must be technologically sound. The fact that Norwegian industrial companies competing outside must be subject to an additional machine tax when they acquire new equipment and machines becomes absurd. And if anyone was in doubt, the government listens to everyone in the business community, also to the LO and the Joint League. These were clear that the machine tax had to be removed: ‘To charge taxes on machinery puts Norway’s workplaces at risk’, said Jørn Eggum, director of the Joint Undertaking. I am therefore pleased that the cooperation parties also agreed that this tax should be phased out. This is important for Norwegian jobs to be involved in development. The right is concerned with good business framework conditions. Some parties see businesses and business owners only as a tax item. To the right, they are important for job creation and for giving us a sustainable society. Therefore, the government continues its relief in corporate taxation and asset tax relief. This latter is also in line with a survey conducted by the NHO, which said that the property tax — the peculiar penal tax on Norwegian ownership — prevents the creation of more jobs. But we are also doing more: the budget follows up the government's submitted industrial notification, export strategy and maritime strategy with concrete measures. In order to strengthen industry’s ability to test new solutions, the focus on the Katapult scheme and the efforts related to the development of enabling technologies is increased. The founding policy is further developed, inter alia: with tax incentives for investment in start-up companies and changes in the option tax for small start-up companies, and the modernisation of Altin has a promise. This latter is not least important in order to facilitate the dialogue between industry and the public. Of course, I also have to come within the government's proposal to wind up operations in Svea/Lunckefjell. In the own-initiative debate initiated recently by the Industry Committee, it could be heard from the opposition parties that the government had not done anything to put alternative activity on Svalbard when coal operations are phased out. The government has granted money to both the local government and Innovation Norway to work with business development, and that job is well under way. The Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research has carried out community and business analyses for Svalbard since the 1990s. The latest analysis was presented in November and shows that Svalbard’s economy is undergoing restructuring and that the growth of employment in other industries has replaced much of the loss of employment in coal production. I do not think I can escape the fact that the excise duty on chocolate and sugar products and non-alcoholic beverages are being increased by means of the budget agreement. This is not a change the government itself proposed in its proposal for a State budget, but it is far better than the option of increasing VAT on unhealthy goods, as several parties, including the Workers' Party, proposed in their alternative budgets. However, in the budget, we are also giving priority to facilitating the increased health of Norwegian food production through agricultural appropriations. Norway has one of the world's cleanest and healthiest agriculture, and the result of the government's agricultural policy is that farmers have experienced a very good income development in recent years. New figures from NIBIO last week show that in 2016 the income growth of farmers was also higher than the general wage increase in society. The right is concerned that, in order to ensure Norwegian seafarers' employment opportunities, training opportunities and apprenticeships and Norwegian maritime industry as a supplier industry, ships flying the flag of Norway are essential. The Government has followed up the recommendations of the Swedish Maritime Committee and has proposed to extend the area of operation of foreign ferries in NIS, the Norwegian International Ship Register, and to establish a separate model subsidy for these ships, in line with the Government's maritime strategy and the majority recommendations of the Maritime Committee. The aim of the proposal is to strengthen the conditions of competition for Norwegian flag ferries and to prevent many Norwegian jobs from being jeopardised by the fact that the company is flagged by NOR, Norwegian ordinary ship register. ESA has now closed the matter on the limitations of the area of operation of NIS passenger ships, and further negotiations with ESA will give an end result. Anyway, I hope that Color Line with this change initiative will still have its head office in Norway. I would also like to point out that the important work of cleaning up the nuclear waste we have is given priority by the government, among other things. in the case of appropriations for the creation of a new State body responsible for the safe management of national nuclear waste and installations. This new executive agency, Norwegian nuclear decommissioning, was decided last week to be added to Halden. Halden already has the largest competence environment in Norway and the largest reactor. This is a long neglected area in which it is now finally being speeded up. The government continues its priorities of growth-enhancing tax relief, boosting trade and investing in research and innovation in the state budget for 2018. This is essential in order to provide the best conditions for business to create new jobs and secure existing jobs. It will give us an ongoing sustainable welfare society, so that we will be able to live in the world's best country in the future. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee and the Chairman of the Committee for their good cooperation in the budget. I would also like to congratulate all of us on the progress of the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e524	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e529	One of the few electoral commitments made by the Right during the election campaign in the field of industrial policy was to increase public investment in research and development equivalent to 1.25 pst. GDP. But in the government's budget proposal, the proportion goes down, not up. A minimum of 1 billion shall also be used. kr on enabling technologies; there will be a slight increase, but there is not enough either. Appropriations for the Research Council are going down. Why don't the Right even follow up their own election vows? Is nutrition policy so low a priority for the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e536	I thank you for the question. It is very good that the Workers' Party is also involved in research. When we see the draft budget and the result we have today, with an increase of 4.5 billion. kr to innovation, to research, to value creation, and when we see the efforts being made in business simplification, yes, we have every reason to be satisfied with the results. It has to be worked on. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is involved in strengthening research and innovation is important. It follows up this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e541	In his speech, the representative claimed that it was the Left and Christian People's Party that was responsible for the chocolate and sugar confectionery fees, so I'll leave it. But a tax that has come, as the Right Party and the Advance Party themselves suggested, was the sharp increase in VAT for travel life, an increase that was not mentioned in the Travel Life message, which for some actors is hundreds of thousands of dollars and up to millions of dollars. In connection with the travel news, a valuation discount was announced in the property tax for hotels, and my question is: Will you make sure that the valuation discount is so high that it keeps up the increase in VAT? Or would those who run hotels in Norway be able to expect a net tax tightening with this plural?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e550	The increase in VAT made is in a way a result of the tax settlement entered into. It was a recommendation to have a flat VAT, which contributes to simplification. Then we have also said that we should have a valuation discount that will benefit the hotels. In addition, we have all the other tax increases proposed by the government. 26 B.C.E. kr. It's also noticed to the travel companies that they get 26 billion. kr. They are among those who benefit from the reduced tax. In addition, we do a lot in transportation. It's the travel life actors very busy. Having good roads, making sure that tourists get to their destinations, is incredibly important. So it does a lot, and not just that you have that sharpening there. There are also many other reliefs and improvements, which business and tourism activities also bring with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e559	Right is one of the parties that has talked a lot about predictability for business. At the same time, they've talked a lot about the green shift. One of the most important measures for a green shift in industry is to put in place a technology for carbon capture and storage, but in this budget, the government cast doubt on the whole effort and puts industry in a difficult position when the right is now taking a break. Does the Right consider that the measure contributes to the predictability of industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e564	There are many measures that are important for industry, including carbon capture, but when we have said that we should not have a tax haven, it is because we believe that it should be equated with other business. Otherwise, there are many measures in our budget – and in our previous budgets – that help to get a green industry, and that is also important in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e569	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e574	Then we're left here and we're going to deal with the budget for the year we're going into. This also marks the beginning of a new period during which the Progress Party will continue to be in and in power, and it needs this country's business life. Norwegian businesses create values that form the basis for the well-being we have today. If we are to equip Norway for the future, we must facilitate the success of businesses and businesses. So in the time we're going into, it's crucial that we can secure jobs and well-being even in the years that come. I am therefore pleased that this government continues to work for good business conditions, with a simpler and more growth-promoting tax system, better infrastructure and skilled workforce. Over the last four years, we have simplified legislation to facilitate efficiency and increased competition in both the public and private sectors. This has helped save business for billions of dollars, and it makes it easier to create additional values. We are now in the middle of an important transformation phase. That's why I'm glad we have a government working to create tomorrow's jobs by investing in knowledge, research and innovation. The government also continues the implementation of the tax reform and reduces taxes on business. So we have a government that, unlike other parties in this room, realizes that the solution is not to send high tax bills to business to raise the business. Since we joined the government, we have reduced the tax and tax level by over 24 billion. kr. If we hadn't run, this wouldn't have been the case. If we are to succeed in transforming and developing this country, it is absolutely vital that we adopt policy solutions that promise businesses and businesses, not suffocate them. Yesterday's solutions, with high taxes on wealth and companies, extensive bureaucracy and complicated legislation, are not tomorrow's. That is why I am pleased that a majority in this Chamber is to maintain changes in the proposal to remove the property tax on production equipment and installations. This so-called machine tax has been problematic for business. International actors may refuse to invest in Norway because of uncertainty about property taxes, and I am pleased that the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left maintains this government proposal. Things are going better in the Norwegian economy. The countries of the South and West were hit hard by the low oil price. Desired individuals with solid competence lost a job to go to. Skips were in circulation, and the red numbers were shining towards us. Now the arrows are turning. We see a positive economic development throughout the country and a better labour market. This shows that Norwegian industry is resilient and resilient. It also says that this government has had solutions that have worked to meet the challenges. We put in place two extraordinary packages of measures to keep the activity up. At the same time, we are now implementing the efforts of the times on the road and rail, which are also contributing to creating jobs and maintaining good activity, as well as making it easier for business to transport goods and services. However, this is a description of reality not recognised by the opposition parties. Throughout last year and in the spring towards the election campaign, we were accused of not taking sufficient action, and that this was a crisis that happened on our guard. It's a description that people, neither then nor now, recognize themselves in. The Labour Party itself has claimed that the reason they lost the election was that they were unclear. I absolutely do not agree with that. I believe the Workers' Party was quite clear in its solutions, but lost the election because the voters did not want them. I think the voters will continue for many years to come. Our solutions are already in this budget. The Government has proposed the establishment of a new market loan and guarantee scheme in Export Credit Norway and GIEK for the purchase of ships from shipyards in Norway when ships are to be used in Norway. This will include, for example: fishing boats, ferries, wellboats and fishing vessels. The new scheme could help Norwegian shipowners to obtain funding under market conditions, thus contributing to increased activity for shipping in Norway. This can in turn lead to increased activity in small and medium-sized enterprises and in subcontracting across the country. The system could help create new activity, value creation and conversion, and maintain our competence in this country. This is one of several solutions on which we are committed to further developing the potential of the Norwegian shipbuilding industry, and I am pleased that an overall committee shares this view. I want to add that it is positive that an overall committee sees the possibilities and the potential associated with Andeya Space Center. This centre plays an important role in Norwegian space activities, and a launch base for small rockets could provide opportunities for new activities and a wider industrial device linked to the Norwegian space industry. I think we got renewed trust and government on September 11th because our voters out there saw results from the work we've been doing in the last four years. This applies not only to industry but also to agriculture. We were sentenced in 2013 north and down, and many saw with horror what would happen if we were to run the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Now, four years later, we see that there is optimism in Norwegian agriculture. Less use is put down, we're self-sufficient in lamb meat, we produce more food than ever, and we've seen a strong growth in farmers' income, to mention something. So this is one of many predictions from the non-citizens who haven't become a reality. What we have done is to facilitate increased food production and increased incomes in agriculture. The budget we are about to adopt today will greatly facilitate the further development of the industry. This also involves the development of infrastructure in the forest industry, where we already see positive results. So – finally: the Socialist Left Party writes in its special remark in the setting, during fishing – and I quote: ‘This member wonders about the government’s total lack of understanding of the potential for coastal development and fisheries.’ - A total defect. We've cut off over $12 million. SEK in 2017 for maritime food measures, we have established a marine fund, so that 80 pst. of the remuneration for the award of new concessions to the municipalities and counties concerned, we have granted more than 970 million. kr this year to new ice-going research vessel, we have adopted a new aquaculture growth regime and set export records within, among other things. seafood, which generates optimism. If this is a total lack of understanding of the industry, I ask questions about what SV adds to that description. Finally, I would like to thank the Left and the Christian People's Party for being able to form a budgetary agreement. You've given, and you've taken, but it's a good sign that there's been thorough negotiations. The final result has a number of good elements in itself, in the best interests of achieving good policy objectives in business policy. I look forward to having a good debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e618	In the past, the Progress Party has had a very clear line in the debate on industrial policy and the budget of the Economic and Social Committee, and that is the seafarers. Now we did not hear a single word about the seafarers and the importance of Norwegian seafarers on board Norwegian ships. There may be several reasons for this, and it might be good to hear a little bit about how the Progress Party thinks about this. It might be to understand that they don't mention seafarers, because they remove the tax-free rent supplement. And they are now most likely to spend $10 million of taxpayers' money subsidising a scheme where Norwegian seafarers land, and other EEA citizens come on board. My question will then be: is the Progress Party satisfied with these two arrangements, and is it such that the time when the Advance Party was a party for Norwegian seafarers is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e624	No, that time is definitely not over. The party of progress has been and will always be seamen, and we are also trying to practice it in practice, as opposed to the Workers' Party. We now have a budget agreement that we defend, because we have agreed on it, and that is the way it is. We will continue to defend it, but we will continue – as opposed to the Workers' Party – to be seafarers' champions. We are interested in having Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian boats, and that will also be the result of our policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e629	In this year's budget, the government is increasing travel life savings. It's a policy that's going to weaken district jobs all over the country. Many hotels and other travel companies have so little margins that it is as far as they can get it going. At the same time, the many important jobs for local communities throughout the country are ensured. But with another increase in travel income from this government, it will now be the hook on the door for many of those businesses. The Government Declaration of the Right and Advance Party states that they will ensure ‘good and predictable framework conditions’ for travel life. Why has the Progress Party gone beyond that promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e634	In the context of the budgetary agreement, we have now agreed on an increase in VAT in the tourism industry. Much of that increase could be taken on price, but of course not everything, and it will vary according to the travel businesses involved. At the same time, however, we have made changes with regard to tax rules, such as property taxes, which in total will contribute to the development of travel life in Norway in an even more positive way than it has done in the past. I believe that the changes we have made now and before will compensate for this and ensure that Norwegian travel lives will continue to exist and could develop as good businesses, and not be taxed in full, as SV wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e639	I want to grasp the previous answer to Ørsal Johansen, which I thought was very weak. This can be invoiced further, was the answer. Business life in e.g. Hedmark and Uppland are in a direct competitive situation with Sweden, as new from Swedish VAT. We have previously heard the representative, Ebbesen, speak in defence of a smoothing of VAT. It might seem that this is just a first step. However, if you look at a number of selected travel companies and how much the reduction in corporate tax means versus what it means to increase VAT, there is a significant tax and tax increase in many of these, for example. hotels, experience. The representative collects taxes on property. I can't see that there's anything about ownership taxes that hit business. So we can expect that the VAT on hotel nights, for example, will continue to rise?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e644	Now the Progress Party has been involved in several budget discussions at this house, and we are proud of what we have done for the business community in Norway and travel life in Norway. We've provided tax relief for well over 24 billion. kr for business. It will also benefit the tourism industry. With regard to Pollestad's question about the Progress Party will work to increase taxes and charges for the Norwegian tourism industry, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e651	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e656	Climate change is in progress, and the people of poor countries are hardest hit. In Norway, we also experience extreme weather, floods and breeds, while both plants and animals are threatened by extinction at a level we have never seen before. The government's solution to this is oil drilling and highway development instead of taking care of valuable nature and starting the transition to a zero-emission society. In addition, the appropriations for actions to enable us to meet ever-increasing climate challenges are being reduced. In the years ahead, Norway has to cope with the transition from strong oil dependence to a diverse and green economy. Every state budget in the future should be the most ambitious climate budget if we are ever to get close to taking the responsibility that we morally have to take. The sitting government has not even begun to think about this work. The green shift has been something you've been talking about in the last four years, but you're not doing anything about it. Because, in reality, a policy here is driven to countries where oil, property and securities are invested instead of actually doing something with the greatest challenge of our time. If Norway is to succeed in the transition from oil dependence to a more forward-looking economy, we must turn our efforts into industries where Norway has a natural advantage. We must dare to bet large, targeted and long-term for a transition that creates growth, for example. with green industry, bioeconomy and ICT driven innovation. Norway has a unique opportunity to build a new and green business with a strong economy and a lot of competent workers. We have a highly educated population, a lot of clean power and clean water. In addition, the new technology allows countries such as Norway to be reindustrialised. In addition to new schemes that exploit the expertise we already have from the oil industry into other industries, we are greatly increasing the eco-innovation system, so that companies are given more support to bet on environmentally friendly solutions. One of our greatest advantages is our huge natural resources. But if Norway is to realise the potential of the bioeconomy, we have to stop sending raw materials out of the country without being processed and instead continue processing them to create high-value products here in the country. We propose strengthening the bioeconomy scheme under Innovation Norway. We have to bet right now if we're going to get Norway out of oil addiction. The best way to do this is not to bet on taxes, but to bet on an active industrial policy that ensures that more people get into work. I find it a little difficult to get here without talking about fish. I even come from a small coastal community in Mid-Troms where you can see that the farming industry has been involved in changing our society in record time. We see the growth, we see a noticeable increase in activity, but we see little positive development in the municipality I come from. There are more significant environmental impacts, greater emissions and a municipality that still needs to cut well-being. An industry flourishes and obviously goes very well. At the same time, we have a community that has the knife on its throat. A production fee is good district policy because it can ensure the maintenance of a society where there are few people who create great values. The government’s pessimism towards the districts is critical for the development of the marine food industry. We in SV believe that it will pay off for the whole country that the municipalities that provide this type of industry get values where values are created in the form of production fees for the effort. Today, many of these municipalities experience poor conditions. Such a charge could in many cases lead to the maintenance of good public services in the areas where growth is created. We believe that Fisheries Minister Sandberg has not listened to Stortinget and has not introduced this production fee, despite having received a clear order from Stortinget. In the long term, this will make it more difficult for many people to maintain their communities. We have to bet on the small coastal communities, and the slightly larger ones, which facilitate growth in the farming industry. We have to dry out saying that they also have to get some cake – because it makes sense, but also because it's fair. So I'd like to say a little bit about agriculture. In SV, we work for sustainable agriculture across the country. We believe that the objective of the agricultural notification is very important – agricultural policy should facilitate active agriculture across the country and build on local resources. After last week's debate on the information offices, I feel that a brief clarification is needed. SV is concerned with two principles in this matter. The first is that cooperatives shall be able to exercise market regulation. Secondly, we need to reduce meat consumption in Norway. At a time when we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, reducing meat consumption is an important measure. During this period, we are going to insist that it will still be possible to operate agriculture throughout the country – that we will have an operating disability grant that will make it easier to operate even where the terrain is steep and conditions are difficult. If we are to secure food preparedness and use the area we have, we must stop the policy we see from the government today, which contributes to more size and more centralisation. In SV we will take agriculture in a different direction. SV is the party that grants the most money for industrial policy. We have made an alternative state budget for the many, not for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e692	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e697	The representative Boel Gregussen talked a lot about fish, so I would like to challenge her a little about the production fee or the land tax. The representative Knag County has previously gone in to raise it to 25 centimetres per kilogram. Then I wonder: how will it work when the industry in between does not have as strong years as it has in recent times? Wouldn't it have been more reasonable for you to have had any swings in relation to how the industry is going? And is it so certain that 25 cents – as Knag Fylkesnes previously pointed out – is the right entrance to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e702	I think the most important thing in this case must be to talk about how the breeding companies can give something back to the communities they work in and extract raw materials from. Just how much such a charge should be, I just have to admit that I have a little too little knowledge of, but I think the most important thing is that they contribute in the form that they pay back to the communities in which they are in. Today we see that they are coming and doing a very big job. We see that large values and resources are taken out from small communities. But the only thing we see left is environmental piggy and an infested seabed – yes, bad environmental consequences. We in SV want to work against it and make sure that it becomes a more environmentally friendly industry, and that everyone should benefit from what is happening along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e709	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e715	The Left too believes that the production fee is important. Then you have to look at how you design it – but we will come back to that later. I am pleased that the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Progressive Party for five consecutive years have negotiated a good budget for Norway. A visible left-print is also set in the field of activity. I believe it is essential that the State budget contributes to better growth conditions for Norway's small and medium-sized enterprises. This constitutes the backbone of Norwegian value creation. Two thirds of the job creation takes place in the private sector. It is important to facilitate growth in the private sector with a thoughtful incentive policy and a framework that makes it easier and safer to create own and others' jobs. Our commitment to entrepreneurial capital and the incubator program is good to promote just entrepreneurship. Start-up enterprises, innovation and research are necessary to ensure that new jobs contribute to the creation of value added and sustainable growth. Business policy should lay down the framework, but not necessarily the direction of Norwegian entrepreneurs. The task of the State is to provide the best possible framework conditions for innovative small businesses with high ambitions and good ideas. It is important that unpaid work can also be included in setting up your own business and research. In the alternative government budget of the Left, we are therefore proposing to set up a grant scheme of 40 million. kr for unpaid work through SkattenFUNN. The aim is to facilitate more entrepreneurs and more innovation. Good government deposit schemes and seed funds are important. In several cases, State capital may also trigger further private financing. Innovation, research and development contracts are central to strengthening Norwegian value creation. An important instrument is the risk relief programme, which makes it easier for Norwegian banks to provide capital to Norwegian start-up and innovation companies. Such programmes should be further strengthened. I am pleased that the Stortinget now asks the government to look into the possibility of registering a company in Norway without a physical presence. Norway should be a world-leading destination for entrepreneurs, and I believe such an e- residence permit can contribute to this. Estonia has already introduced such a type of system. Norway, with its long coastline and five times as much seas as land, has large renewable resources. If the resources are used optimally, there is the potential for a value creation that can be greater and more lasting than oil revenues. With good framework conditions, maritime nutrition can ensure growth and income on the whole of our coast. In fisheries, aquaculture and marine biotechnology, Norway has a significant competitive advantage based on natural assumptions and extensive competences developed through generations and through targeted research. I will contribute to the development of a maritime food policy that ensures a competitive and comprehensive maritime nutrition. In the case of seafood, it is essential that Norway reduces its barriers to trade through an active trade policy and that Norway has free access to maritime food for the EU and the other important markets. Today, Norway does not have free trade in any of the 15 main seafood markets. Freer market access is important for increased value creation throughout the maritime food value chain. The regulatory framework in all parts of the maritime food sector must be simplified and have as its primary objective the environmentally friendly, sustainable management of local value creation. It is important to ensure recruitment for fisheries, seafood processing, aquaculture and seafood. We contribute to this, for example: through the ‘Set Sea legs’ scheme. Fishing resources are a national resource and shall be managed nationally. I believe that the fishing industry should be regulated by quota provisions, so that long-term taxation is no greater than ecological sustainability. Strict responses must be made to infringements and other forms of fraud involving those allowances. In international negotiations, Norway must be a driver of more sustainable fishing. The setting of quotas must be based as far as possible on ecosystem management so that the taxation of one species does not jeopardise long-term benefits from other species. International agreements and effective control must ensure the ecological balance in the Barents Sea and the North Sea. More needs to be done to strengthen the work against salmonnus. Taking care of our wild stocks is important, and I am glad that we were strengthened by the budgetary agreement on wild breeds. Norway has a high potential for producing healthy and climate-friendly food from the sea. Norway has all the prerequisites for increasing marine value creation. It must take place in a combination of growth on sustainable premises in fisheries and farming and a strong commitment to new emerging marine industries, including: krill, increased algae production and the processing of seaweed into medicines, cosmetics and food. Good maps in coastal areas are important. I am pleased that in the budget agreement we received funding for the financing of marine base maps for the Namdal coast. Good land maps are important in the development of a new coastal zone plan. The survey shall give priority to areas with the highest socio-economic value and where there are conflicts of interest between fisheries/fisheries and the harvesting of marine species. Local inputs from the Namdals regions were strongly focused on that use. I will return to the agricultural sector later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e745	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e750	In the budget hearing, we learned how complicated it is for the 360 small and medium-sized bakery and pastry companies we have in Norway to report on the chocolate charge. They had to separate production processes, they had to have their own stock for what was going on in the process, what was to be reported, etc. As far as we have registered, at least the Left is very concerned about the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, but perhaps not as concerned with bakery and crafts, which, at least as they presented it, have to import marzipan – and would rather spend time creating more jobs. The question in these Christmas seasons is: why wouldn't the Left support the Workers' Party's proposal, so that we got an assessment of both a simplification and of whether one could set a roof for the small and medium-sized bakeries and pastry farms here in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e757	In these Christmas times, as the representative Ruth Grung says, Ruth Grung is also very aware that there has been no primary request from the Left to increase the sugar charge. But through a deal that we also have, this has become a totality. And as I also said in my post, it's a good budget. I understand that this will of course be a challenge, not least for the local bakery companies. Also in the brewery industry, I understand that this will be a challenge. For my part, it is in many ways a paradox when I see how busy people are of good and healthy diet, that they are not involved and think a little bit wider about the information offices – that in the future we can gain a little more dietary expertise and look at this. I share the idea that there are many ways to do this, but we have a deal that we have made with several.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e764	The Left's commitment to a more robust policy, including: with increased focus on animal welfare, is touching. As a centre party and Ås candidate with a heart for agricultural production and animal husbandry, I think it is nice that politicians want to put this on the agenda. What amazes me is the lack of consistency in policy. Last week we were once again able to read about an extensive animal tragedy, debilitated pigs that were unable to stand up properly. Food surveillance has recorded 20 to 30 annual cases of severe malnutrition of farmed animals in recent years. Veterinarians call for closer follow-up by the Food Safety Authority and preventive measures. The government, with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party, responds by cutting the budget of the Food Authority and strengthening the animal police. Then I wonder how the animal police can compensate for the loss of funds to the Food Safety Authority, which results in fewer supervision and less research. And to what extent can they contribute to professional competence and preventive work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e771	I believe that the Food Authority and the new Animal Police will have a great deal of competence. It is not possible to get away from the fact that the supervision of food may now also need to focus more on the possibility of guidance. Such disasters, or unfortunate incidents, such as It's in Rogaland, it's not just coming out of bad knowledge, it's probably because there's something personal behind it. I also believe that the guidance expertise in the Food Safety Authority should be assessed in this respect. But it's clear that this is a cut. In the same way that we streamline the rest of the Norwegian state, it is natural that the Food Authority also participates. But I had probably hoped that over time we could also have a food supervision that had practiced the same in the different regions. I think you can do that by looking at this in a better way every now and then.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e776	In SV, we're concerned that we're going to produce food based on our land resources across the country, and that we're going to have a good animal welfare across the country. In order to do so, we need strong food supervision. When they get a big cut, it's going to go beyond the Food Authority's ability to strengthen animal welfare and food health. They are at risk of having to lay down offices. We have recently received a story from Rogaland about a pig crew who did not feel well, and thanks to control from the Food Authority, it was taken care of. The left is also concerned with animal welfare, so how can one then defend this cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e781	As I also said in my previous post, animal welfare means a lot to the Left – that animals are well, not least. But it also requires those who care for them to have the necessary skills. As I've also said before, I think you can't just exercise supervision by just running with control, I think you need more guidance, too. I think the guide piece is quite possible with a smaller frame. So I think it is quite specific that the legislation, both within fisheries and within agriculture, needs to be coordinated more than at present between the regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e786	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e791	Today, when we deal with the food chapter in the state budget, we have come to that part of the budget where values are created, values that allow us to fund a welfare state. It is therefore adjacent to mentioning a man who has been an inspiration to many in the Christian People's Party, Hans Nielsen Hauge. Hauge saw jobs as a means of lifting people out of poverty, equipping individuals and building society. It was business development with a higher opinion, if you like. The catchwords were ‘accuracy’ and ‘responsibility’. Capital was used to build businesses. Dividends were small and went to new businesses. This is a message as valid today as it was then. This year too, the Christian People's Party has been involved in negotiating a budgetary union with the government and the Left. We have managed to move a good budget for our country. For the Christian People's Party, this year there has been a main in the negotiations to put in place compensatory measures for farmers who lose their market base due to changes in customs and export subsidies. As far as I know, it is the first time such compensation has been granted over the state budget outside the agricultural settlement. It makes this a historic day. The Christian People's Party believes that this is common sense at a time when we are expected to have over-production of milk and for a long time have had under-production of beef. Although it is hardly possible to get away from the milk quotas, we are now giving those who want to convert from milk to meat, an opportunity to do so by applying for the funds we have received in Chapter 1149, entry 75 Grants for investment aid in agriculture. That is 75 million for the 2018 financial year. SEK for agricultural investment aid. It gives us an extra means of achieving market balance on both milk and meat, and the Christian People's Party is very pleased that we have had a positive impact on this in the budget negotiations. A matter that caused a great deal of inconvenience when the budget was presented was that the organisations supported by the Ministry of Agriculture budget had been removed. It's not a secret that we appreciate such rematches very little. Nevertheless, it is gratifying that we were able to get back into place the support for the organisations. These organisations do valuable work both in information activities, in creating public debate and in recruitment activities, and we believe that they need predictable framework conditions. Fishing has been and will be an important cornerstone of Norwegian coastal communities. This is one of our most important export industries, which is becoming increasingly important. To have sustainable management, we need to know how much fishing resources we have and how much can be taken out. Norway currently has high populations of many of our most important species, and this is a result of the work carried out in population research. Therefore, it is good that we should spend more money on stock research in 2018. The Christian People's Party is also very pleased that we have got money in place for a new rescue shooter in Mehamn. The Christian People's Party submitted a cancellation of the operating grant to the Rescue Company of 10 million. kr for that purpose, in Chapter 1300 Item 74 Grants to the Rescue Company, and we will give tribute to the government parties for the high attendance at that point in the budget negotiations. We had to fight hard for increased funds for many of our heart matters, but there was never any objection to our proposal to put in place appropriations that would allow us to have a rescue boat stationed in Mehamn. Also the left gave us full support at that point. In this way, we can rejoice with the people of the coast and the sea on the hardy Finnmark coast that a very important measure to increase safety at sea is now in place. This is very important for both fishermen and others who have their work at sea. One thing that this year has been very demanding for the Christian People's Party was the proposal to remove property taxes on works and use. The Christian People's Party is concerned that municipalities should have predictable incomes and incomes that enable them to produce well-being locally, where the inhabitants live. We therefore wanted a legislative committee as an alternative to the government's proposal. Unfortunately, we did not get through to that in the negotiations. When the situation turned out that way, however, we are pleased that we have received compensation for the municipalities concerned. The Christian People's Party also believes that this is an important principle. We cannot cut the municipalities off from collecting taxes locally without compensating for it. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that we now have an investigation on the information offices in agriculture. There's been a lot of back and forth here, but we think it's right that we follow the principle of an investigation where the actors themselves get to be involved in the process through their representation in the Council of Commerce. I look forward to following developments and assume that the Council of State and the actors can work together in good solutions to how the information activities should be and should be financed in the future. Here it is important that the industry shows flexibility and willingness for innovation in terms of organisation and level of funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e815	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e820	The Christian People's Party has made an important contribution to the consideration of the State budget in the Food and Agriculture Committee. We in the Workers' Party are very pleased about this, and that we can now be clear from the Storting on that information offices have an important role to play in Norway. In the post of the representative, Reiten, the importance of creating jobs and distributing values was emphasised. I notice that we have an offensive growth that wants jobs related to food production in Norway, and that we also need to ensure that those jobs benefit the whole country. Then I wonder in my question to the Christian People's Party: what instruments do they think are important in the years to come, in order to ensure a balance in the market, so that we can distribute values and ensure stability also for small and medium-sized applications?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e829	We have programmed that we want a varied agriculture with different sizes, with use throughout the country. I was, among other things, with a joint remark with the Workers' Party, in which we wanted to look at this with operating difficulties, which may become something very interesting because it is not subject to the restrictions contained in a WTO agreement. It's one of the measures. It is also clear that the income target will become important in future agricultural settlements. It must be profitable not only for the main uses. There must also be profitability in the medium and small uses.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e838	The centre party and the Christian People's Party share an commitment to Norwegian food production. I also believe that the view is that it is important to be careful, and that the income of the farmer is important. Then you have to have a clear income measure. And I want to challenge something that Line Henriette Heimdal joined the nations on August 15, 2017, and that, to some extent, has also been repeated many times – on income targets. She said that. ‘Shall we reduce the gap and raise the income of farmers, they must have a chronically similar development as others’. My question is whether this is still the Christian People's Party's view of income development and the income target in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e850	In the attitude of the Agriculture Communication, an overall committee stated that: «the income target shall be to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other social groups». The revenue gap can only be reduced by heads, not by percentages. Therefore, one does not need to be literate in order to understand that the objective is that the income development in agriculture measured in krona should be at least as large as for other groups when the industry, as the Committee assumes, has a good productivity development and market adaptation. That's why I'm worried when the representative in the budget setting suggests more than that the representative would prefer not to think about a mentioned cost in agriculture because it's the farmers themselves who are financing the cost. But that's the case for all costs in the industry. This dissociation from the main elements of the formation of income is not just political disclaimer – that attitude will also help to weaken the adopted income target. The level of fees paid by farmers has a direct impact on the income of the industry. We all have to take that over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e864	The Christian People's Party and SV were in the comments about the information offices in the setting of the agricultural message in ours. It said, among other things. in our joint remarks that ‘there is a need for more consumer information on, inter alia: climate, food loss, diet and health»; That's why I was so surprised when I saw that the Christian People's Party was not involved in the proposals in this setting to investigate how the information offices can contribute more to information on, among other things. environment, climate and health. So now I hope it's not too late. I would therefore like to invite the Christian People's Party to join this proposal again. Does the Christian People's Party want to join in?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e869	The Turnover Council has now been commissioned by the Council of State to address these issues. If we go into such a proposal, it is to put in place the guidance for the investigation work that the Turnover Council is now going to do. Now we want to withdraw and let the Sales Council work out the solutions that are important. And then we have also been checked out with the agricultural organisations that the questions raised here by the representative Boel Gregussen will be taken care of in the work that the Turnover Council is going to do. That is why we have chosen not to go into that proposal, and we are quite sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e876	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e881	This is a budget that makes Norwegian business more vulnerable in the coming years because it does not take proper account of the upheavals we are now seeing coming against us. It prolongs today's nutrient structure, this is a quasi-conversion – or conversion, as the Right says. Minister of Economic Affairs Monica Mæland is holding the key to real green growth. She could have opened new doors and doors for business in the future, but with this budget she does not use it. Here we go again old roads. Some background: I grew up with industry and export industries, first textiles, but also the fishing industry, of course. I grew up – about – in the factory from which stilts came. I also worked part-time with Baader filleting machines and lightened long and cod in large vessels. I smelled fish for weeks afterwards – or as we say on Sunnmower: It smelled money. I have closely watched and felt Western industry grow and fall. Running textile factories in Norway was a real upsurge in the 1960s and 1970s, but very demanding in the 1980s and 1990s. Stoknes Tricotage Factory and the brand Stylongs are history, as well as internationalisation, with logfish, lute fish and dry fish. It really went down and home because the companies did not act in time in relation to the market and financial risk. Old success became a horror in the face of the new reality. This is the success trap. Being in bankruptcy and banking crises, feeling it in close proximity, is not much fun. It is bad to experience that workplaces become unsafe and disappear. Perhaps that's why, as an adult, I've been working on strategic forward-looking, or foresight. I mention this background, because when I read this food budget, I find very little like foresight, but a lot of 19th-century industry nostalgia. For example, it helped. Nokia very little to have a big innovation budget and many models as they innovated towards even more pushbuttons on board cars, and the market would prefer touchscreen and iPhone. Just as with the still factory and Nokia, there are now strong, outer driving forces that are beginning to enter Norwegian reality. There are rapid trends in solar and wind energy, battery costs, digitisation, Internet of Things, artificial intelligence, smart construction and cities, autonomous vehicles, etc. It's always easier to do less, so-called implementational adjustment, than to go up new roads. That's how small we find in this state budget. There is no real will to unlock innovation where it really has to. This is an administrator budget, not an innovation budget. It reminds me of the success traps, which I am now afraid that the whole of Norway can end up in. It is in the budget, for example. no real commitment to the recommendations of the Green Competitiveness Report. It's just a lukewarm digitization bet that Abelia calls for avoidance. There is a great deal of cut in commercialisation, for example. POLLUTION 2020. There is no further investment in pre-seed funds for new start-ups, and there is no programme effort on technology transfer from petroleum to new industries. The main consequence of this budget is that Norway is once again postponing the transformation into a green business. There will be no real green growth with this, as we see in our neighbouring countries Sweden, Finland and Denmark. This will continue the impact, or F, that the OECD gives Norway in green growth and carbon productivity, as I mentioned in the financial debate. If we make a real effort, as the Greens propose, the opportunities are enormous. The potential for bioeconomy value creation is estimated at up to a thousand billion by 2050 – a triple from today. Creative industries and travel: 160,000 people are currently employed in these industries; they represent a 100-billion-dollar value creation. kr. – and growing much faster than the rest of the economy. In terms of health and well-being, new products and services are introduced at a high pace — and have high potential. Investment in marine wind in Europe is expected to be 250 billion. kr in the year of the next 5-10 years and Norway may have a significant market share. Let also mention circular economy and minerals. There is absolutely no shortage of opportunities for fast green value creation. What is lacking is a political will to exploit it by actively shifting capital and work from oil to rapid growth in sustainable activities. This requires a strong transformation of the path to smart green innovations and regular follow-up. For this reason, I am addressing the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance. on annually published green growth indicators. If the Right is serious, as Prime Minister Solberg said in the VG last week, that blue policy is green growth, we expect the Right to vote for our proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e900	The President understood that the representative Per Espen Stoknes addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e905	Norway is a country with great potential. We have a lot of natural resources, a lot of participation in the world of work and a very competent workforce. The government has managed Norway safely over a demanding period of time. Now there's good growth in the economy, and we see that more people are going to work all over the country. The government’s financial policies and policy packages have worked. The time has now come to normalise fiscal policies and to ensure stability and boost the competitiveness of business. Although the need for action packages is no longer present, it does not mean that we have completed the transition. The main challenge we face in the future is to facilitate economic growth and new, and preferably green, jobs. For the past four years, we have been pursuing an active enterprise policy and promoting several strategies and messages that are stepping out the course for some of our most important industries. We have dealt with an industrial report, a tourism report, a bioeconomy strategy, a maritime strategy and a maritime strategy. In addition, we have presented Norway’s first entrepreneurial communication and presented an export strategy — to name a few. The most important thing we can do for business is to provide good framework conditions. That's why we've reduced taxes, we've got a record bet on transportation, and not least a strong commitment to research and innovation. That is why we have strengthened the wide-ranging schemes such as the Eco-Technology Scheme, the BIA, the FORNY2020 and the FUNN Scheme. The strong commitment to nutrient research has been further reinforced by the budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, and we are now spending 4.5 billion. kr more on industrial research and innovation than in 2013. Let me draw out here the support for test facilities, Norwegian catapult. The measure contributes to the access of Norwegian industrial enterprises to important infrastructure, competences and opportunities to test new solutions. The scheme was set up in 2017 and, for 2018, a total of 125 million is proposed. kr, an increase of 75 million. kr. Norway is one of the world's leading ports. In both maritime, maritime and petroleum industries, there is a high potential for growth in cooperation and knowledge sharing across industries. In 2018, the government therefore proposes a commitment to marine and maritime demonstration and piloting projects and actions contributing to increased knowledge sharing across borders. Maritime industry is among Norway's most global and innovative industries, and the Norwegian maritime cluster consists of a complete value chain with a broad range of knowledge, products and services. The subsidy scheme for employment of seafarers is important in order to maintain maritime competence in Norway. We have expanded the scheme several times, and the scheme was passed earlier this year. In the 2018 budget, there are estimated payments of more than 2 billion. kr on the scheme. The government also has an ambitious climate policy. We need more green jobs in the future. The new investment company Renewable AS is proposed with an investment framework of 400 million. kr in 2018. The company shall make investments contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, to the development of new technologies and to the creation of new green jobs. The Government will contribute to the competitiveness and predictability of Norwegian industry’s export finance offers tailored to the needs of industry. We have therefore implemented improvements in the export finance offer, which help to make Norwegian yards and equipment suppliers more competitive and to increase activity. The Government proposes the establishment in 2018 of a loan and guarantee scheme for the purchase of ships from shipyards in Norway when they are to be used in Norway. A guarantee framework of 10 billion is proposed. kr. In addition, in the summer of GIEK’s guarantee offer was extended to cover export-related investments in Norway. In the 2018 budget, the Government has submitted proposals to wind up the coal operations of Great Norske in Svea and Lunckefjell. This has not been a simple decision, but I would like to thank you for a good and constructive initiative debate a few weeks ago. Svalbard shall undergo a conversion and need to re-develop its activities. We started this work already in 2015. We're on, but it'll take time. The government continues its work on simplification and digitisation. Simplification of business reporting, re-use of information and digital public services are important areas. The government prioritises actions in this budget that underpin economic growth, more in jobs, innovation and a sustainable welfare society. To ensure well-being, we need to create more profitable jobs and get better quality and more well-being out of each taxpayer's budget. That is why we continue to modernise the public sector and to convert the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e938	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e943	What gives cause for serious concern is that regardless of how many large-scale messages and strategies this government provides, job growth is just as low. It's a significant challenge. But that's not what I'm going to ask the Council of State a question about. I also thought I could challenge the Minister of Industry on the situation of the seafarers. If Color Line chooses to go from NOR to NIS, it may come in a situation where one ends up using actually several tens of millions of dollars above the state budget to create a system where Norwegian seafarers go ashore and where EEA citizens come on board. Are the Councils satisfied with such a system?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e950	I dare the claim, which anyone is welcome to check, that there is no government ever that has done more for maritime nutrition than what this has done. So the first thing we did was we put down a range selection, a sample of the parties. We got their position in January 2015 and presented a strategy of 69 follow-up points in May 2015. Most of these measures have now been implemented. It is that we have strengthened the net pay system on several occasions, not later than this summer, when we introduced it on the ‘deep sea’. So we went beyond the Speed range selection setting. Then we're not the ones who decide where to flag shipping companies. We're making it possible for ships to be flagged to Norway. It's been a very successful policy when you see that a fifty ships are actually now flagged home. What remains is to implement the recommendations of the Maritime Committee – that was a recommendation from a party-combined selection – to change the operating rules, so that we can keep ships in NOR and NIS.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e959	Firstly, the Minister of Industry and the Government are responsible for the legislation in force. So if the Minister of Industry doesn't want the transition from NOR to NIS to take place for these Color Line ships, she has the full opportunity to do something, that's her responsibility. I did not get an answer to the question. I also recognise the Speed Committee, and much has been done well for Norwegian seafarers, and one has got a better net pay regime after the Speed Committee raised this issue. That is why I ask again, now in the context of the current system: does the Minister for Economic Affairs think it is right to spend several $10 million of taxpayers' money – to be a little taboo on it – to ensure that Norwegian seafarers go ashore while EEA citizens board? Is it a scheme with which the Minister of Industry is satisfied? She is fully responsible for opening up that occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e966	I think there must be a fundamental misunderstanding when the representative thinks I'm the one who decides where to flag ships. It's not. I am facilitating that ships can be flagged to NOR and NIS. And unlike the government that sat before us, which saw that the share of NIS ships fell every year, we've done something about it. I am very surprised at this matter. I hear the Workers' Party hails the tripartite cooperation in all contexts, but they do not do it in this situation, not in a situation where it was done what one party in the party sample proposed, so we should not do that to the other party. We can't have it like that. We have to have predictability, we have to have reality, and we have to do what we promised. It was to implement the very fragile compromise we got from the Speed Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e973	The admission which opens up to go from NOR to NIS and the net pay system and stuff for these ships is the responsibility of the Minister of Industry. But I'm going to ask another way, to try to get an answer to what I'm asking about: when we're most likely going to spend $10 million of taxpayers' money to put Norwegian seafarers ashore while EEA citizens go on board, it might be a weakening – at least a reduced idea – of the legitimacy of the Norwegian population in terms of the net pay system. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs see that one can weaken the legitimacy of the net pay scheme, as it is today designed, by making the changes that are now going to take place during 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e980	I just have to repeat: what will weaken the legitimacy of Norwegian maritime policy is not to do anything we have promised to do. Then it is not the government and not the Storting that determines where ships are to be flagged. But you can sit still and see that ships and shipping companies are being flagged out, and you actually have. The invoice to the representative is not correct either. We are now spending a lot more money on net pay because ships have not flagged from NOR to NIS. You also want to spend less money. But that's not the point, the point is to have predictability and make sure that we keep shipping companies and ships in NIS and NOR with the Norwegian flag.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e989	I would like to address another area where the government seems to want to replace Norwegian labour with foreign labour, and that relates to road construction. In the last week, it is presented by Trønder-Avisa today, newspaper received an e-mail saying that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries has not had conversations with Chinese road construction operators in Norway. Similarly, the same newspaper prints a letter in which a Chinese company sincerely thanks for the invitation to visit Norway. So my question is, Has the Minister of Industry had conversations with Chinese road construction actors in Norway, and what will one achieve with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e994	First, I'm very happy to get the question, because earlier today the representative gave the impression that this government had led a policy that increased the number of foreign contracts in the transport sector. That's not right. When the Central Party sat with the Minister for Transport in 2012–2013, 35 pst went. of contracts in excess of 100 million. kr to non-resident companies. In the period 2014–2016, under this government, the share is 12 pst. So, of course, under this government, there are several contracts, just because we have a greater investment in traffic, but the proportion of foreigners is lower. I have read Thrønder-Avisa with interest, which indicates that I should have met representatives of Chinese business in China. I just have to confirm that: I did. I participated in a record large delegation with the Prime Minister earlier this year, with the aim of securing Norwegian exports to China.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1001	On 30 November of this year, the Business Committee held an own-initiative debate on Svalbard's business activities, where the issue of future energy supply to Longyearbyen and other settlements became a central issue. Int. 8 S, from the nutrition committee, which we are dealing with today, this issue is raised again by an overall committee. The closure of mining in Svea/Lunckefjell raises the question of future energy carriers, in particular because today, mine 7, which supplies coal to the coal-fired power station, has a limited remaining life span of about 10 years based on remaining resources with today’s mode of operation. The Committee considers that there is a need to clarify the future energy supply of Svalbard and suggests that future energy production will be sustainable and renewable. So my question is: can the Council of State briefly do what is the status of investigating the potential for future energy supply at Svalbard, which was placed in the order of a Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence when the Svalbard Communication was discussed in November 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1006	It is the Minister of Justice who has the overall responsibility for Svalbard. I am responsible for Great Norske, and of course I am responsible for the development of Norwegian business life at Svalbard. In the examination of the swallowing message, a proposal for a request was sent to the government, and as far as I know, the work is under the control of both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1014	When Stortinget dealt with the industrial communication in spring, a proposal was made for a technology transfer programme from the oil and gas sector, which was supported by Abelia, by Norwegian Industry, by Norwegian oil and gas, by Tekna, etc. It was agreed that there is a great need for a technology transfer programme. Several sectors are involved. You can, for example: Consider, as many have discussed, the need for a large demonstration park for sea winds in Norway. Some European analysts, such as Ecofys, have suggested the need for 240 GW sea wind from the North Sea by 2040. Hywind had 30 MW, in comparison. So my question to the Minister of Industry is: What initiatives or needs do you see regarding technology transfer from the petroleum industry in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1019	I heard both the question and the representative's posts earlier today, and I am not familiar with the reality description given. It is such that this government, in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, has a historical commitment to research and development under the direction of the Research Council, Innovation Norway, Enova etc. to contribute to the conversion of Norwegian business. So we're in full swing. Business in Norway has taken the green shift seriously, and is also addressing the enormous challenges facing technology development. In the maritime sector in particular, the government has now set up a series of initiatives to contribute to the transfer of technology, among other things. from the petroleum sector to the maritime and marine industries. This sea bet is quite clear in the year's budget and is to be continued over the next few years. There is an enormous potential for developing new jobs in the marine industry and, of course, the petroleum sector is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1028	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1033	Norway is rich in natural resources. The processing of resources has provided the basis for modern Norway, with high employment, high welfare levels and viable communities throughout the country. Tripartite cooperation has contributed to high trust and a low level of conflict. But one of the biggest challenges we're facing today is the falling share that's at work, that's the lowest in 20 years. Most countries have experienced falls in employment, but after 2013, Norway has had the largest fall. In the last ten years, the proportion of men aged 25 to 29 with primary schools in work fell from 79 to 66 pst. The Labour Party notes that the government's tax cuts and historically high oil money consumption have produced poor results for employment, and investment is declining in industry and housing. The Workers' Party will have an active enterprise policy. More profitable jobs need to be created, especially in the competitive sector. We can't be best at everything, but with targeted policies, we can be world leaders in areas where we have special advantages, such as renewable energy, maritime, oil and gas and seafood. We are therefore proposing a marine value creation programme, bringing together competences, incentives and different measures and facilitating long-term cooperation between business and research. One of Norway’s advantages is the ability to interact across sectors, and we have a high level of competence. But we need better opportunities to test new solutions to meet the climate challenges. We therefore strengthen the Eco-Technology Scheme and extend it to sea-based renewable energy. We maintain the exemption from the CO 2 tax on offshore and short sea shipping, in order to strengthen competitiveness and ensure more jobs in Norwegian shipping and the Norwegian shipping industry. We're going to go into carbon capture with rest cutting. It is not enough to say that public purchasing power will be strengthened when it is not followed up in practice. It is both regrettable and particular that the government has not been in dialogue with our strong maritime cluster to define the action space for a more ambitious offer for the coast route. In fact, large parts of business are more advanced than governments. The Hurtigruten is a national symbol that goes along large parts of the coast and into and out of our three World Heritage fjords. A tender that provided for both new tonnage and fleet renewal would strengthen our global maritime position, create new jobs in the country and contribute to the export of future-oriented eco-technological solutions, but this opportunity was not used by the government. In the budget configuration, a Joint Committee is set up to provide the Norwegian Design and Architecture Centre (DOGA) with a clear mandate to support local initiatives with the potential for value creation, across the country and in all sectors with national preference. It is very gratifying that an overall committee considers that the government must consider whether it is appropriate to have all the 50 posts in Oslo. As far as we have registered, they have been developing for almost three years a strategy for an area where Norway has a real opportunity to position itself, while other parts of the country have both projects linked to the maritime sector and to e-health, and cooperation with Statsbyggen. Increased regionalisation will generate positive dynamism between different environments and strengthen the national environment. It is important to support under creativity and value creation throughout the country. The government of Stoltenberg started the simplification work for business followed by the current government. There is still a high potential in the use of digitisation. Many registers are based on self-cost. And with experience from local politics, I know that it is incredibly important that we also act as politicians here as representatives, and that we have a special responsibility for digitisation that benefits the areas that are just based on user payments. The Labour Party therefore raised a proposal that, in this area in particular, it should ensure that digitisation leads to lower fees and benefits to business. We look forward to four good years in business policy and the Business Committee. It'll be exciting to see what we can do. Now I'm from the West. There is great power in terms of renewal and desire, but as a national politician, I am concerned that this benefits the whole country and that we can play each other good.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1055	Norway is in the middle of a transition. I think we're going to get used to it, because I think the normal state in the future is going to be that we're in constant change. For many years before 2013, the Right pointed out that we were too dependent on the petroleum sector, and we stressed that there was a need for more legs to stand on. There was an alarming need for investment in research, innovation and the development of new industries. To underline it immediately, so that there is no doubt: we live on the creation of value from the petroleum sector and will live on it for a long time in the future. The problem is that no one knows how long the future will be. What we know for sure is that in the future we will live on something else. We have to find alternatives to the so-called oil economy. What's the new oil? It's nothing – or that's all. Because with today's knowledge, there is not a single industry that can replace the oil adventure. That's the sum of the new industries and the sum of the innovation within the existing industries that are going to be the legs we're going to be on in the future. Then we have to make sure that all the legs are healthy and – precisely – sustainable. We are in the incredibly lucky, but at the same time very demanding, situation that we have time and resources to implement conversion – lucky because it is possible to get to a soft landing, but demanding because it is difficult to be innovative and look for new opportunities at the same time as things go well. And it's going well in Norway. Unemployment continues downwards, employment rates are cautiously rising, growth is increasing, and business optimism is back. Then the challenging task is to budget nights, bet where it has to bet, pinch where it should be pinched. It's not always easy to explain why cut can be right when money is growing, but by thoughtful thought we all understand it. There is always a need for more efficiency. There is a need for priority. No trees grow into heaven. Then it's better to be leading was thinking about the whole thing. That's what taking responsibility is. This is not the time for detachment; we want to facilitate a safe and sustainable welfare society in the coming years. I am pleased that this budget is also devoted to innovation and entrepreneurial activity. We need to facilitate new businesses, new businesses, but at the same time we need to make sure that the framework conditions for existing industries are good and predictable. It's not either – or, it's a boat – and. Many of the jobs of the future are not created. They can come into completely new businesses, but they can just as well come up with new, innovative solutions in existing businesses. We politicians don't create jobs, we encourage business to do it. I am pleased that arrangements such as SkattenFUNN, KapitalFUNN and catapult arrangements are being continued and strengthened in this budget. There are bets that businesses demand, and which are often the small extra thing to do to get a local entrepreneur going, or an existing company dares to bet a little extra. In the period 2013–2017, two out of three new jobs were created in the private sector. Sustainable growth is a prerequisite for the future growth of jobs to be even greater in the private sector than in the public sector. We need more jobs that contribute to the state budget, instead of jobs that live on the state budget. The public instrument must be calibrated for an increasingly fragmented business. Innovation Norway is the preferred and most coordinated business to which businesses can relate in their contact with the public sector. But I notice that our honourable competitors from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre write in their comments that ‘It should be a national objective for entrepreneurs and businesses to have one contact person to deal with an officially coordinated support apparatus’. I believe that this can be proclaimed to be the most bureaucratic proposal in the entire alternative budget of the Workers' Party. In other words, we want to create a hub for business, a new bureaucratic giant with super-business handlers to know all about all the arrangements in place. It might sound nice – utopias like to do it. The Norwegian economy is improving after the severe setback three years ago. Our policies work. Lowering company taxes, phasing out machine taxes, investing in start-up enterprises, industrial research and innovation and the rational use of oil money are all incentives for continued growth in the economy and strengthening competitiveness. I am pleased with the budget that is now being adopted. Continued prioritisation of growth-enhancing tax havens, record sales, education, research and innovation is what will contribute to sustainability and new, profitable jobs in business. Demanding times require secure control. The ninth budget in a row with the four cooperation parties is a fact, and it is a budget for a safe and sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1079	We are on the threshold of a new year and therefore also a new budget. The debate so far has been about a lot, but perhaps most of all about the so-called sugar levy. As one who bears the clear mark of being happy in sugar, I can be honest and say that it is not with sweet taste in my mouth that I stand behind this fee increase. But in a budget that four parties are behind, it will always be something you would want to be different – or not so much taxed. And that's how I think it's for everyone. The budget for the new year is much more than the sugar levy. So let's think about that. Here we are at the end of this budgetary year, there is every reason for optimism. In a number of areas, it's going well, yes, actually very well, for AS Norway. After a historic fall in oil prices, unemployment declines, optimism prevails, and new export records are set, among others. in the case of seafood. Of course, I travel most in Northernland. There is no longer an investment in millions, but in billions, which will secure existing jobs until next year and create new full-year jobs. The marine industry is a good example of this. In the Western Seabed, through the North Laks Sea Farms, it must be invested at the top of 3 billion. kr, which in turn will generate new jobs both at sea and on land. This is just one example of several. When this happens, it is because it is facilitated by an active industrial policy. That is why I am pleased that a unanimous nutrition committee in the budget points to the opportunities that Andøya Space Center represents. Taking into account the natural assumptions of Andøya to launch satellites will form the basis for new activity and new jobs. That Andøya will be able to evolve into an international satellite top shooting arena is something I have great faith in. And I have the same belief that the government will contribute and deliver on this. There are many examples of success in AS Norway. In 2017, it will, among other things: new record is set in the export of Norwegian, fantastic seafood, where earnings are also historically good. But that doesn't mean you can lean back. I believe that the State budget also responds well. Creating values of Norwegian seafood requires that we both simplify and renew. Therefore, it is both important and right that GIEK, the Export Credit Guarantee Institute, be given the opportunity to support building projects for boats built in Norway. That's good, and here the government provides tools that allow many. The Nordic region is a long-term state with great value creation based on our amazing natural resources. In this picture, of course, transportation is important and crucial. It is therefore important that the State budget responds to a robust migration rate in the national transport plan. It will smell heavily of newly created asphalt also in 2018 – which also has a crucial role to play in the business environment. In this year's government budget, there are also good and proper investments in the environment. The establishment of the Oil Protection and Environmental Centre, located at Hassel and Vågan, is a good example in this way. But the Oil Protection and Environmental Centre is also a very good nutrition project. Norway is the world leader in mechanical oil protection. I believe the knowledge contained in this will be useful in the development of future solutions and the management of marine pollution, for this is one of several tasks that the Oil Protection and Environmental Centre will work on. Marine pollution is not just a national problem, it is also an international problem. The fact that the State, through the Oil Protection and Environmental Centre, facilitates the pooling of enterprises and knowledge provides great opportunities. The Norwegian companies, which are currently world leaders in oil protection, along with new and academia, believe that I have great opportunities to be world leaders in the handling of marine pollution. It means a lot to the marine environment, and at the same time it could create great export opportunities in terms of competence and equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1100	The sea is, the sea has always been, and the sea will still be, one of the most important resources for Norway. Through the government’s maritime strategy, ‘New Growth, Proud History’, the government will contribute to maximum overall value creation in marine industries and strengthen Norway’s position as a leading port. This is done, inter alia: by working on the profiling of Innovation Norway and by proposing to strengthen it by 10 million. kr. This is done through a strengthening of the cluster programme for Innovation Norway. There are great developments within the Norwegian Ocean Cluster, and we see an exchange of technology and knowledge across the marine industries. Together with such a knowledge flow, a good interaction between an efficient public administration and the private is crucial for the further development of the marine industry. The Marine Research Institute and the NIFES are merged into one institute to strengthen marine research and to be a leading knowledge provider for sustainable resource management throughout the value chain from sea to food. In order to further exploit the potential of knowledge exchange and to meet the needs of the future, the government proposes that it be set at 10 million. for further investigation of the co-location of the Institute of Marine Research and the Directorate of Fisheries. I am pleased that the budget agreement granted 10 million and 20 million respectively. to the Marine Research Institute for Stock Research on commercially important species and for a maritime knowledge promise. Furthermore, the government proposes to strengthen the investment in marine research and knowledge of new marine species by 14 million. kr, in addition to a funding for Antarctic research support of 11 million. kr. In order to strengthen the investment in new technologies and production methods, the government is also proposing to strengthen the catapult system by 50 million. kr. This investment was further boosted by 25 million. kr in the budget agreement. The transition to the economic challenges of the last few years, with falling oil prices and increasing unemployment, is in full swing. Fishing and seafood industries are evolving as never before, and the position as part of what Norway will live on in the future is strengthened. The profitability of the processing industry is getting better and better, of course well assisted by a weaker crown, but also by good and high quotas. However, further development requires a good framework, and the government provides the basis for further growth through good governance, good regulation, quota negotiations and international fisheries agreements aiming at a profitable and value-creating industry within a sustainable framework. An important part of this process is the government’s commitment to digitisation and simplification for a more efficient public administration. Despite developments, there are still challenges and enormous potential in industry. In fisheries, the government will give priority to continuing its work on illegal fishing, working for the best possible regulatory framework with the EU and the United Kingdom in the wake of Brexit and contributing to sustainable international resource use. This is absolutely crucial. The government has also launched a new growth regime for sustainable and value-creating development in the aquaculture industry, the so-called traffic light system. It is an important task to follow up the new regime and ensure development in harmony with the environment. Another important part of the development and growth of industry will come through development permits, where the Directorate for Fisheries has received over 100 innovative and innovative proposals. Residual raw material from the marine food industry is a resource today, but will become a significantly larger resource in the future. Most of the raw material produced in the farming sector and the pelagic sector is currently being exploited, but there is still too much residual raw material in the whitefish sector that is not being exploited. We must actively work on this and put forward good strategies for it. It is essential to facilitate increased use of marine resources by ensuring up-to-date knowledge of safe and healthy food. Seafood consumption is falling in Norway, we have to turn this around.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1119	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1124	First I would like to welcome the Minister back to Stortinget. It's not that long since we met here last, and it's going to be a long and interesting day. The first question to the Minister is about the commitment to the leadership grant. The operating grant and having a well-developed network of reception stations is essential for maintaining the varied fleet structure. Without it it would be impossible to live as a professional fisherman, with small boats. Here the government wants cut. The working party doesn't want that. My question is whether the Minister for Fisheries agrees with my description of the management grant and whether he can justify why he wants to cut the subsidy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1131	I also look forward to a long and interesting day. It is correct that the 2018 State budget proposes to reduce the subsidy of EUR 6,9 million for nutritional measures in fisheries. SEK – i.e. from 36,2 million. NOK 29.3 million. kr. The reduction will also – quite correctly – mainly go beyond the leadership grant, which forms the main part of this item. When we propose this for a nutritional measure in fisheries, it is that the lead grant involves a guarantee lot, a subsidy to self-fear, a subsidy scheme through free fishing, etc., but the amount to be allocated by this pot to the leadership grant itself is not determined. The Government will therefore continue to contribute to the establishment of reception stations for the smallest fleet, which is essential in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1138	I thank you for your answer. So I have to get into another question. For the Workers' Party, it is essential to ensure that we have a fishing time fleet, a varied fleet structure and raw material for industry throughout the year to ensure full-year jobs. The Minister for Fisheries has now repeatedly indicated that there will be a case on the Eidesen Committee's position. It's going to the Storting, but what we're going to do anyway, every time we ask, has not been answered, is when it's going to come, and how it's going to be presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1146	I announced in December 2016, when the Eidesen Committee's nomination was submitted, that this would be a matter for Stortinget. So the hearing went to the Eidesen Committee until March. The industry got a little extra time, and I think the hearing went out in April. Then I and the department have worked on these hearings. This is a comprehensive matter. It's about our entire quota system, and that's why it's important for me to have a good dialogue with the nutrition committee on this, because the whole quota range and the whole setting have to be treated together. There are many stakes in this setting. There are time-limits, resource rates, quota rentals, 11-metre structure, extra-quota arrangements – there are many moments in it. That is why I have said that I should invite the Committee to engage in a wide-ranging dialogue on this, because one cannot take out one part and deal with it. This must be treated collectively. Then I've started the process of government... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1153	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1158	First, I would like to ask State Council Sandberg: Do you want to take signals from Stortinget when you decide the Klos case?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1163	The President must first point out that one speaks through the President, that is to say to the President, from the Chair of the Grand Duchy. For the sake of order, you don't say 'you'.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1168	Then I get to complete what I did not get answered to the representative Myrseth, about progress: I have now started this process in government, because with regard to the progress and how this is to be treated, there must first be a round there. So I aim that throughout 2018 we will have a process up against the industry and Stortinget. There is a significant job that needs to be done with it. I am thinking of both dialogue meetings and round table conferences. I expect that when we arrive in 2019, there should be a big message. Then we know that we are going to deal with a matter in Stortinget on Monday, with a proposal asking the Council of State and the government to look at other issues related to the quota committee. I want to listen to the debate that is going on Monday, to see if it is moving on to the progress of dealing with the Eidesen Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1175	The government conducts a fisheries policy that makes it more difficult and difficult for young people to enter the profession. With increasing quota prices, millions of wealth are needed today to establish themselves as fishermen. At the same time, we see in this year’s government budget that Sandberg proposed to cut out a successful action to get young people into the profession – Set Seabee. Fortunately, the system was saved in the budget agreement, but it still shows in what direction the government wants to run the fishing profession and that they want it to be a profession for the few and not for the many. Why will the Council of State make it more difficult for young people to become fishermen?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1180	I do not share the reality of the representative. Now we have a situation where we recruit more and more young people – and especially women – into fishing. For the first time in almost 20 years we have an increase in the number of fishermen, and it is especially young people coming in. Then we have a number of measures going on recruiting young people. What I am recording now is that both the aquaculture industry and the fishing industry tell me that it has never been easier to recruit than in these times. That's enough because we see positive trends in fisheries and aquaculture. There's a queue in front of our educational institutions to go in the direction of aquaculture and fishing. I think that's very positive. In the case of Set Seabone, it was a temporary scheme that came into a situation where you could not recruit at all – in 2008. Now both the aquaculture industry, the seafood industry and the fisheries industry report that recruitment is much easier, among other things. young people enter these professions, and then it is natural to cut down on the appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1187	Governments were committed to the importance of sustainable management. We in the Christian People's Party are very pleased that we have put in place money for stock research in the budget agreement. However, a few weeks ago, the conclusion was reached with regard to which parts of the Norwegian coast were given category red, yellow and green under the new traffic lighting system for the award of new farming concessions, and thus prolonged funds into the Maritime Fund. We in the Christian People's Party have always been concerned with caring for the work of providing wild breeds with the best possible protection from harmful influences from the farming industry in terms of disease, escape and salmon. We registered that one in the first round chose to give those parts of the coast that got category red, the same conditions for further operations as category yellow. Can the Council of State promise that it was a one-off case and that the traffic light system will be practiced for the future in line with what the Stortinget has decided?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1196	We know that the Christian People's Party has been very busy putting in place resources for stock research, it has repeated every year, and I can say that as the Council of State and the Minister of Fisheries I am pleased about. There we need a lot more research, because there are huge opportunities for new species and population research out there. With regard to the traffic light system, I can confirm that it is not just a one-off case, but a postponement until 2019. The reason for this is that you still have some knowledge gaps to close down. Going to the dramatic step now to ask the industry to reduce its output by 6 pst., when we still don't have a hundred percent knowledge of the results, I felt as the government council was a bit unreasonable. But in 2019 the whole system will be in place, and then 6 pst will also be required. reduction for those in the red area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1203	In reply to Mr Adelsten Iversen, the Minister for Fisheries pointed out the matter to be discussed by the Stortinget on Monday. I would then like to inform the Minister for Fisheries that today is Monday, and that we are going to deal with this matter immediately after the state budget. We're looking forward to that. My question concerns the Marine Fund, because I was at a meeting in the Network of fjord and coastal municipalities. The Minister for Fisheries went back and forth on the stage and asked what municipalities the spokesmen were from. He turned to the State Secretary, and he called out as a wake-up preacher a number of how much money they would get from the Marine Fund, and that therefore there was no need for an area tax. When I tried to get these numbers from the Minister of Fisheries, it was completely impossible. What's the background for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1210	It's the same Monday. This is an internal working document prepared by the State Secretary and the Council of State, and everything relating to this is without reservation. Starting to deliver such a spreadsheet with all these reservations would be unreasonable. Now, first of all, there has to be consultation on the auction principle, and then I can't force either industry or anyone else to buy growth on existing biomass or in auction, so you don't know what's coming out of this. But one thing is certain, and that's that if everything is bought, and if the price is 120 000 kroner, it's going to be 2.9 billion. kr in income — subject to purchase by all. But there are some reservations here. If nothing is purchased on existing biomass, it goes to auction. But if it's 2.9 billion. NOK – if everything is purchased at NOK 120000 – 80 pst of this goes to the primary municipalities. [[The President clubs.]] Of these 80 pst. 10 goes to the county and 70 to the primary municipalities. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1220	The number is out. The President will tell you that when the red lamp lights, you have to go in for landing, not take off. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1227	We have to create to share. This means that we need to create more within several important and strategic industries for this country. We need more jobs. We have the lowest employment in 20 years, and the problem is, among other things, that we have a government that doesn't have the ability to think city and country hand in hand. If we are to ensure the need for welfare also for the future, we cannot continue with a passive industrial policy that does not create enough safe jobs. Within strategically important industries, we need to ensure long-termity and predictability. We need to invest in increased recruitment by raising the professions and working for even more apprenticeships. Norway needs an active industrial policy. During eight red-green years, 360 000 jobs were created, two out of three in the private sector — a completely different class from that of this government. For the Workers' Party, the Nordic regions are Norway's main strategic bet area. 80 pst. of the marine areas we manage is north of the Arctic Circle. This means that we need an active north-eastern policy to succeed in growth in the marine industry. The time has passed when the northern part of the country was only a commodity supplier. We need to realize the Ocean Space Centre, and work on competence centres for the sea and Arctic issues in Tromsø needs to be intensified – a project that is promised by the excellent environments in Tromsø. So people live in the north, too. Therefore, there are good growth opportunities within several industries. It's about land and water. It's about climate. It's cold, it gives good opportunities for the fish, but also for other industries, like, for example. data storage. In the north, we've always lived by the sea. It is also available in several parts of the country. Then the fisheries policy must have legitimacy. Then you have to have people along the coast like heirs. There's not much hiccups along this coast. We have a government that is weaker than ever, we have seen that in the case after the case. We see it, for example. having a Minister for Fisheries who does not contribute to the creation of predictability and long-termity. The Labour Party will take its own initiative where the government lacks its own. We need to think about research and innovation – new ideas and ideas. That's how medicine, vitamins and cosmetics can also come from the sea. We need a marine value creation program. Then I have to say a few words about travel life. There is a great deal of interest in Norway as a destination. In 2016, turnover was 18.3 billion. NOK only in North Norway. Over 15 000 people were employed. Travel life is an important industry for the future, but the challenge to industry is the lack of strategies and measures that contribute to sustainable growth. Yes, I know that a travel life message has been submitted, but I say the same thing for it. Action is needed to meet security needs and, for example: the certification of guides. It's a fast-growing industry. Then you need a forward-looking policy instead of the government's passivity and cut. The working party would consume 20 million. kr more on travel life. What is needed to trigger the great potential of the industry? The tourists who come to Norway are looking for quality, and they are willing to pay. But take, for example: those who come to ski — in Lyngsalpene, in Lofoten, in the West. There are also guides from Europe who cannot do so well. Yeah, it's actually so bad at times that life has been lost in the mountains. We must have people working in the tourism industry who can be windy. They must be able to the areas in which they guide. They must be able to handle a scooter. They have to be able to scramble. We need forward-looking policies. We need municipalities that contribute. The industry, of course, must contribute, but the state must also contribute. The working party will also take initiatives when it comes to exploiting the potential of the tourism industry. There is no call in Norwegian society for ever more increasing differences, higher nursery prices and cut welfare, which are the Right and the Advance Party's policies. No, you didn't win the election because you did so much better, but because the Workers' Party did it too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1244	We have a serious challenge in this country: we need to create more jobs. That's what's going to create the values we're going to distribute -- without that, no value to distribute. When we face crises like the one we've just been through, it's really just a handful of tools we have. We can reduce taxes to reduce the cost of business and create new demand. We can increase public investment, including: in transport, to create new activity and reduce costs for business. We can reduce barriers to job creation by making it easier to start a business and make it easier to get a job. We can invest in research to secure future jobs. All of this has been done by this government in cooperation with this big business and the cooperation parties. Everything is going to reduce the cost to business, and we're going to continue with that in this budget. Finally, we have to trust that creative people with risk will seize the chance. It stands at the entrepreneurs both within existing businesses and in completely new ones. The alternative to the budget that lies ahead of us today is not a basis for new jobs and entrepreneurship. Government policies and the efforts of many enterprises, ideas and creativity have reversed the trend. Now come slowly, but probably more at work. Monthly leave goes down. The Workers' Party's alternative proposals include taxes on wealth and increases in taxes amounting to 5.2 billion. kr extra from the job-creating business. What one returns in this proposal for bets that go directly back to business seems, as I can judge, to be at the base of 1 billion. kr. The remainder is sent through various public measures. Or to put it another way, you take away 5.2 billion. In private sector jobs, and for every five jobs to be removed, one job is taken back. This is taken from the bottom line of the companies, because it's at least for the 3.3 billion. kr in increased taxes on wealth is completely non-profit-making. At normal returns, this means you have to have $65 billion. kr on the market to obtain this result, and one can then imagine how many thousands of employees are employed here to collect the fruits of, and jobs to jeopardize. It clearly shows how much such a tax increase can produce negative consequences. Most people who start a business must start the business and buy the machines and produce the product before they can get the income. Taxes of the kind of Workers' Party here are increasing, are perfectly adapted to prevent job growth and entrepreneurship. This is a corporate tax. In one hand, you will receive a grant from the founder, in the other increased tax bill. The net is rarely going to be zero. When we charge taxes on wealth and machines and stocks that do not take account of income and profits, we eat of the seed. And as everyone knows – the person with whom I used to have a line chord exchange – the crop will be smaller. The crop here is well-being and jobs. In its ultimate consequence, this leads to greater differences because fewer people get a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1259	I'm glad we once again landed a budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. It also provides a basis for growth and value creation throughout the country for the coming year. We have a demanding time behind us. The oil price drop put us and the Norwegian industry to the test. It is not easy to fit into the conversion, but it was necessary. Thus, with the support of the Cooperation Party, the situation we had with an expansionary fiscal policy, which helped to reduce the risk of rapid growth in unemployment, and at the same time contributed to the long-term transformation. This means that tax policy means something, because it ensures that businesses know that, in the future, there are opportunities to invest their capital in Norwegian enterprises, create new profitable jobs – even when there are demanding times, there is capital to do so. This means that we have a government that makes sure that the trend is reversed and we get economic growth again, for example. significant investments in transport, knowledge and research. It is in the private sector that jobs must be created in the future. Policies can help make it profitable. And that's what we need. We need more jobs to contribute to the state budget in the future, and not jobs that get their money into it. It's about our long-term ability both to provide increased welfare services and not least to ensure that we drag all the inhabitants of this country with us on the most important leadership to have social equality, easy work. That is why the 2018 budget and the agreement we are now making with the Christian People's Party and the Left are also contributing to that. The Labour Party has, in the past, been concerned about the development of a variety of forest industries in this debate. I can agree with the concern that we have not got back all the jobs that disappeared the last time the Labour Party was responsible for, among other things. the forestry policy. But we're doing great. For what have we done in the four years that we have behind us, what are we going to continue to do with the 2018 budget? Yeah, take down the costs for the industry and for the whole value chain, so it'll be more profitable to invest. For this reason, we have a double investment in timber brands, so we have a double investment in forest roads, because the most important thing we can contribute to is cost-reducing measures for those who are going to create the profitable jobs. Thus, the forest industry is also satisfied, even though they could have thought of a greater impact in e.g.. Conseilance matters than the Workers' Party have been willing to attend here on the house. But not only on this, on enabling technologies to create new, green profitable jobs based on the forest, there are great possibilities based on this budget. Let's see. Agricultural developments are continuing to improve. If the collapse debates are very often about what we put in, I've always been busy with what we get out in the years I've run the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. What are we getting out of agricultural policy for the four years we've got behind us, and what are we getting out next year? Yeah, we get an income increase that's larger than for all of the other groups. In 2014, income growth in Norwegian agriculture was 13 pst. In 2015 he was 13 p.m. In 2016, he was only 2 pst., while other groups had 1.7 pst. But what's happening at the same time here? There is higher food production than ever before; there is higher investment than in very many years – 18 pst. growth in investments in 2016 – there are fewer farmers ending up than we have in the past, there is less land use, and there is better profitability. And not only does it happen, but it happens at the same time as we reinforce the channelling of food production. In other words, in 2016, revenue goes up most in the parts of the country for which the Stortinget has been most concerned, the districts, and not only that, but the income growth is strongest for the smallest used. If one is busy with achieving goals and not just political symbols, there is every reason to rejoice both over the four years that we have behind us, and over the budgetary unity that the four non-socialist parties put on the table through the budgetary procedure today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1274	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1279	Over a hundred pigs were found dead in Rogaland a short time ago. Many were debilitated. It was discovered after the food inspection was carried out on the farm. We know that the Food Authority will have important tasks in the coming year, as well as overseeing our animals. The fight against antibiotic resistance needs to be reinforced, we need to get control of the cancer, and Stortinget has said that we should strengthen food production based on Norwegian resources. This is why, naturally, trustees and very many others in Norway who are concerned about animal welfare are concerned about the great cut that the Food Authority is now putting on with the budgetary agreement here on the Stortinget. I have noticed that the Council of State for newspapers and news agencies is honest that he is concerned. Can the Council of State guarantee that this will not go beyond the work of the Food Authority in 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1288	I can't guarantee that Storting's budget decision has no consequences, because it's going to have. What the Storting has asked for, based on the decisions one has made after we presented our original budget proposal, is that one reduces the administrative costs of the Food Authority. It has the Food Authority to do before. It's not long since the Food Authority was through a big shift, where they reduced the number of leaders by over 30 pst. It's a reasonable red tape of a public office. There are also opportunities for further efficiency in the Food Safety Authority. We're going to try to deliver on that. But there are a number of factors that are still important for the Food Authority to take care of. Therefore, I will be clear in my mission paper and assignment letter to the Food Safety Authority that they will continue to do good risk assessments and give priority to supervision that will reveal things we are not supposed to have. in livestock production.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1297	There's one word that's absolutely right here, and there's several, because there are just more tasks that the Food Authority is going to have in the years to come. And if the Minister of Agriculture honestly says that he is concerned, and claims to prioritize animal welfare, the question remains: What tasks must be gone? What part of the activities of the Food Safety Authority will be affected by the large cut that the Food Safety Authority is now putting on? I believe that both employees and people who are engaged in safe food and healthy animals throughout Norway are interested in hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1302	I'm not worried, although the representative Sandrøen is trying to give me those points of view. I have said that it is a demanding matter for the Food Safety Authority to handle. It is because all such conversion processes will always be required. We're going to figure out what's ordered from Stortinget and see how we can reduce administrative costs. It could lead to changes in office structure, changes in organization, potential outsourcing or other variants, but we're ready to deliver on that. Then I can welcome the representative that since we took responsibility for the Food Safety Authority in 2013, the number of supervision has increased by 12 000–15,000 on average per year. So if you were safe on your own situation when you put your own power into it, you can at least have full peace in the situation the Food Authority is going to enter now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1313	A theme of which the bulk of the population is very busy, of which I find that the Council of State is talking less and less about, is soil protection. The size has seen a target of a maximum re-disposal of 4000 deches by 2020. When this is a topic, it is more often and more often shown how the situation was thirty years back in time, twelve years back in time, or seven years back in time; it does not seem that the Council of State has perceived that the objective of soil protection is a forward-looking goal, which says something about where we are going in 2020. We have heard in the debate today that the Right's representative was most busy in how farmers would get the opportunity to sell the land to development interests. My question is quite simply: can the Council of State guarantee that he will achieve the soil protection target of a maximum of 4000 decare redisposed by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1322	If the post from the Right-Representative is understood as being busy with how much land to sell, I understand why the Center Party occupies their positions on this question. For it was not the contents of the posts of the Right-Representative. I think it's possible to achieve an ambitious soil protection target of 4,000 dens by 2020. It requires clearer priorities. That is why we are now fully implementing the soil protection strategy that we have put forward. Many of the measures are already in place. We were as late as the last week a new conference on soil protection. We work together with KS to get the land re-disposal down to those who actually make the concrete decisions in the municipalities, and we work together on training for the populace in it until the next period. It is easy to develop symbolic policies. I mean, we're doing great.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1332	Option agreements are, of course, something that is often associated with, and mainly used in, the cases in which farmers conclude sales agreements for development interests for future development. If that's not interesting, I understand why no result is achieved. Fortunately, the Stortinget has gone against the government and says that we want a case about this. The Storting target says that the target should not only be 4000 deches by 2020, but that one should achieve the target gradually. We see no decline in the re-disposal of cultivated land. The right hand side and the right hand side of the progress bar show that several actions have been implemented. What new measures will the Council of State put in place to achieve the 4 000-decker target by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1339	Some of them I've already been in. When it comes to the issue of option agreements, an option agreement does not entail a single square metre of land redisposal. There are redisposable decisions in municipalities that do. That's precisely why it's starting in the completely wrong end when the Center Party approaches the option agreements as easy solutions to complicated challenges. What is it about in the municipalities? This is a lack of land – demanding assessments when making concrete redeployments. One better go in there. I think it's the most important steps to get rid of it, to give the municipalities greater flexibility, the municipal reform that the Central Party is taking all the time to oppose. What does the community reform bring? It gives greater space for action, greater ability to dispose of more space, which also allows a more important food soil to be protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1346	I have a question that concerns the same thing, which I feel is not adequately answered by the Council of State. Despite the fact that the Stortinget has set a clear goal for soil protection, we still see that food soil is being built all over the country. It's serious, because the earth is going to feed us at a time when climate change is getting ever closer. Then we have to take care of it and not build it down. Will the Council of State do anything to strengthen soil protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1353	I've already answered that twice. We are in good dialogue with several actors, who are the ones who decide to redeploy in this area. It's nice to notice. This is one of the reasons why we have also sent a letter to all of the country's spokesmen, where we have asked them to be careful about redeployment and to make good judgements. It is because it is ultimately the municipal government in all the municipalities of the country that redispatching decisions are taken. It is possible that the Socialist Left Party wants all the earth to be re-disposaled from an office in Oslo. I think that's the recipe for a failure in sensible soil protection. Therefore, I believe that the work we have on KS, the country's spokesmen and the regional conferences, which are about setting the decision-makers, to make better assessments when it comes to redeploying, is the easiest and most sensible way to achieve the goal of soil protection by 2020, which this government also suggests that we should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1358	On 16 June this year, the Stortinget made a request decision to promote compensatory measures in the 2018 draft State budget for the loss suffered by producers and for the loss of market shares in the context of agreements under Article 19 of the EEA Agreement, phasing out export subsidies. When the government presented its original draft budget, we did not find any such remedial measures in the Christian People's Party. We are therefore very pleased that, in the budget agreement, we were able to make a contribution of 75 million. kr for the financial year 2018, to be granted investment aid for agriculture. However, this is only a beginning to address the impact of a tighter milk market – an estimated 130 million litres of milk will no longer be used to produce Norwegian cheese after 2020. My question to the Council of State is therefore: What kind of remedial measures does he see as having to be in place, in addition to 75 million. kr, on next year's government budget in the years up to 2020 to remedy a tighter milk market?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1365	I have a completely different approach than the Christian People's Party to this issue. I mean, it's madness if I'm going to say to Norwegian dairy farmers: please reduce production by 2020, because then it's not certain that they're dedicated to Norwegian milk. On the contrary, we need to bring up the pace of innovation. We're one more cheese in this country, but we're importing it. Why do we do that? Why do we not take advantage of the opportunities provided by Norwegian food production to strengthen our competitiveness? This is where the future answer lies – not in the fact that the Storing or the Government is constantly compensating for the loss of a disadvantage, which one does not have. In fact, one must ensure that industry, value chain and Norwegian farmers are encouraged to invest adequately in what they will live on in the future. It's too easy to conclude that we're going to lose 10 pst. of the milk volume. We have to make sure we don't. In this case, non-compensatory measures are the right entry point.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1370	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1375	One third of the adult population is out of work, and in some of our municipalities it's up to 40 pst. who are not working for the adult population. The Workers' Party's proposals for the State budget are therefore aimed at creating more jobs, getting more people to work on the spot. The debate we have today is at the heart of the challenge facing Norway in the next few years. The debate on the work of the Business Committee, which is very central if we are to succeed in the goal of getting more people to work. Therefore, I think it is very gratifying that we have an offensive increase that wants jobs in Norway related to food production. Today is a happy and fine day for all our enthusiasts and friends of Norwegian agriculture, when together we ensure a part of our agricultural model by balancing the markets with information offices. The market balance is about people working in farms having security of income. It's about making sure that there are goods in the shops that we as consumers want to buy. We see that the job that the information offices do is working, but can be improved. That job can be done even better for a new time. It's going to be an important matter for the Business Committee to continue working on in the time to come. We have already dealt with another important issue for animals in Norway, namely the Food Authority. It is worrying that the Food Authority, which had already received significant cutbacks when the proposal for the State budget came to Stortinget, is further cut after having been through the treatment here. So the animals don't just seem to be a loser in internal budgetary negotiations between the Right and the Advance Party, but are further weakened after budgetary negotiations in the Stortinget. We have still not received a response to what tasks will be reduced in the Food Safety Authority – which jobs may be lost. There are many who are following the debate today that are in fact asking questions. At least it is certain that we will have many fresh and good debates, both today and in the years to come, on how to use our soil and forest resources in Norway. In the Workers' Party's proposal, we put forward an offensive research effort on soil and forest in particular, and a commitment to the bioeconomy. We believe that we can take the practical knowledge from the industries that have historically been important to Norway into a new era. We want to use business policy actively, so that we can get more people to work in those parts of our country where there are now many people out of work. There are many things that go well in the forest industry. At the same time, we must remember that we have a favourable price of crowns and low interest rates, which contribute very positively to these export industries. So it's really expected that we have a positive contribution from the development of the economy, and we can strengthen the positive development of the forest industry even more by making active political choices. For example, we need to improve infrastructure in Norway. Bridges must be built – three is an excellent material. When we are going to build new public buildings, we know that three are a material that is both sustainable and reduces climate emissions. For this reason, the forest industry is a key element in an enhanced investment in a modern Norway. The Labour Party is still going to fight hard for more people in work, and we are very happy that so many have engaged in proposals for the work of the nutrition committee and contributed to consultation. This will be exciting and important years for Stortinget – for safe food, more jobs and sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1392	In the 2018 government budget, the government has proposed to remove the property tax on production equipment and installations. It is also established in the state budget department with the Left and Christian People's Party. It builds up under a budget that prioritises policies for growth and new jobs. In the case of a representative of a country in transition, the loss of machine taxes is particularly important. Over the last few years, the Agder people have seen the consequences of the low oil price. Several have lost their jobs, but the skills they possess do not, fortunately, disappear, provided that we have the power to create new opportunities. It is precisely this knowledge and competence in combination with natural advantages such as access to renewable energy and geographical location as the gateway to Europe that makes South Africa particularly suitable for developing new industries – industries that are both forward-looking and profitable and not least sustainable for our environment and climate. The development of large data storage centres is an example of such a new industry in the Agder counties, an industry that demands the expertise and takes advantage of the advantages of the South. The first big project is already well under way. Founder Peder Nærbø has invested billions at Støleheia in the municipality of Vennesla, located within a radius of 10-15 minutes from the centre of Kristiansand, University of Agder, port, airport, railway, E18, E39 and not least just a stone's throw away Statnett's facilities on Støleheia, which provide access to necessary and renewable power. The availability of pure Norwegian hydropower also gives the data centre a green label. Today, most data centres in Europe are located in countries with an overweight of fossil energy in their energy mix, and coal as the dominant power source. It is therefore easy to see the obvious climate gains by attracting us to this kind of industry in Norway. However, an international industry is also characterised by international competition, and it has repeatedly been clarified from the industry that the Norwegian tax system is anticompetitive in favour of other comparable countries. Just machine taxes have been highlighted as a significant disincentive to competition when companies are to invest and establish themselves in Norway. Therefore, it is so important that this budget provides for a tax system that makes Norway competitive and reduces property taxes for large data centres. I can reassure concerned advisers around the whole country that the loss of machine tax will generate more activity, it will facilitate growth, and it will help create jobs. Therefore, it is my and Right's belief that in the longer term it will increase the tax revenue of the municipalities, not reduce them. At the same time, we also recognise that short-term tax losses can be challenging for some municipalities, and funds have therefore been included in the 2018 draft budget aimed at compensating for the reductions in income. This comes at the top of a municipal economy that thrives and a large economic space to provide citizens with good public services. The municipalities have been boosting their economy in recent years, and Norway has been managed safely through a challenging time with a dramatic fall in oil prices. The main focus has always been to pursue a policy that gives us more legs to stand on, which premieres those who dare to bet, and that facilitates growth in private business. It's a policy that works. Growth in the economy is good, and new jobs are created. It is absolutely essential that we continue to pursue policies that deliver these kinds of results, if we are to ensure a good welfare society in the years to come. It is easy for politicians to adopt new jobs by introducing them as public posts in the State budget, but in the long term it is not sustainable. We must experience the creation of more jobs that contribute to the state budget, and not just jobs that depend on the individual budget lines. By removing the property tax on production equipment and installations, we are helping to create good competitive conditions for operators wishing to invest in Norway. For my part of the country, this means better framework conditions for the development of green data centres and new jobs. A new industry is growing, and it will bring both economic gains here at home and great climate gains globally. It's a development we need to invest in, it's an industry we need to harness, and it's an area in which we need to develop good policies. The abolition of machine taxes is a good policy measure to achieve the objectives, and the proposal for a State budget is just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1417	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1423	Future jobs were an important part of the election campaign in Buskerud. We are a forest state with a great potential to contribute to the green shift in Drammen, West Fossen, Modum, Tofte and Ringerijk. Buskerud Arbeiderparti was on company visits to most of these companies. The message is unambiguous: an offensive effort is needed by the authorities, not a passive so-called industry-neutral approach that characterises the government's policies. Cultimate forest contributes to the binding of CO2. Root rotting forests contribute to the opposite. Since 1969 the forest in Norway has grown again. One timber processing company after another has disappeared – many of them in Buskerud – in the shadow of the black gold. Some environments are left – willing to bet. Then the state must have an industrial policy that supports a bet from the black gold back to the green gold. In fact, the vast majority of oil-based products can be replaced by products based on wood – if we want. The Workers' Party is therefore concerned about the inaction that has shaped the Norwegian authorities' attitude towards the forest industry since the Right-Fremskritsparte government took over in 2013. The Labour Party promoted in 2013 comprehensive proposals for the development of the Norwegian forest industry with 22 measures. One of them was Statskog, as the only national player with enough muscles to play an active role in the development of forest industry on both the property, resource and forest management side and in strategic participation on the owner’s side. It is therefore necessary to stop the plans of the Right and the Advance Party for the sale of arronders in the state forest. It's incredibly little forward-looking and very contrary to Buskerud's business interests. At Modum, a new factory for the production of glues is now being built. Splitkon has received support from Innovation Norway and Siva. It's positive. This may help to limit current practices in sending raw materials from Norway to Austria to reimport finished products. There are also exciting things going on at Tofte and at Ringerijk, but the uncertainty there is great and has been it for a long time. The Labour Party lacks a more offensive attitude on the part of the government. We propose to focus on research centres for bioeconomy in the creation of new sustainable jobs, including those based on forest resources. We also propose to maintain support for the forest industry from the bioeconomy programme. Unfortunately for Buskerud, it seems that these proposals are being voted down. It's hard to understand, from the Norwegian point of view, and easy to understand from the Right and the Advance Party's clock faith in the market, which has never been the answer to our challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1434	I want to take the opportunity to talk a little bit about the sea. For one who comes from an island, it is very clear that, in addition to much of history's value creation, the future creation of value and jobs will also come into contact with the sea. Some small, but important things are done in this state budget to ensure future value creation in the sea. Some are related to yard and guarantee schemes and some are related to maritime pilot and demonstration projects. But perhaps at least as important is the commitment to marine research into new marine species. In aquaculture and new marine species there is an enormous potential on which the existing industry in Norway can build. There are many predictions of how we can increase value creation from, among other things, aquaculture and also from traditional fisheries. Someone's talking about totaling up to 500 billion. kr over the next 30 years. It's an incredible potential, which we have to use every opportunity to try to realize. It is not realized by adding new taxes to what is going well today, and I would like to take this opportunity to support the Minister for Fisheries in that he has done quite right not to promote any proposal for a production levy on aquaculture. I think the discussion is very special. Firstly, the production fee proposed in Stortinget in the past is simply not feasible. If it had been feasible, it would have been the best solution to ensure that no fish were processed in Norway from aquaculture, due to the fact that it had not been processed. the way it was designed. Second, there's something in principle in this. It is a farm fund to ensure that part of the basic rate goes back to the individual municipality and is distributed slightly at regional level and slightly at state level, but most at municipal level. An introduction of this production charge would, of course, reduce potential revenues from auctioning and selling concessions for aquaculture. But is it really a good idea to make such a close connection between economics and regulation for a special purpose? By virtue of the Law on Planning and Building, municipalities have an obligation to regulate appropriately as regards the environment, other interests and industry. It's actually a separate point in the purpose of the law that says this. Saying that you are not doing this today in the municipalities means that the municipalities do not follow up on their statutory role. To say that you need an extra financial incentive to follow up on the purpose that you're covering today, I think it's wrong, both in principle and pragmatically. An American president once said that the state's view of the economy could be summed up quite briefly: if it moves, tax it. If it keeps moving, it regulates. And if it stops moving, it subsidizes. It can quickly be the situation if you constantly impose taxes on the things that succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1447	It is a pleasure to debate the country's initiative and budget for industry in Norway. The management of resources, from nutrients to people, money and work, industry and value creation, is important. On the other hand, the priorities of the government, supported by the Left and Christian People's Party, are nothing to rejoice about. I am shocked by the extensive cuts in incentives and bets on forests. I wonder: Is forest no longer an important Norwegian resource? We in the Center Party, on the other hand, want to bet. Our resources are distributed throughout the country, and then the bet must be then. We wish, among other things: increased subsidies to Innovation Norway, better framework conditions for farmers across the country and a real protection of the soil. In addition, a secure framework for business and people are well prepared, and the stockpiling of cereals is considered wise. State Council Meland boasts of the government's initiative and is moving forward, among other things. Norwegian catapult, which was added in the autumn to Uppland and the Raufoss environment. This is joyous. Furthermore, she celebrates that they have submitted several staging messages, but this celebration takes place without the Center Party. The hinterland had hoped that fjords, northern lights and Oslo could be supplemented with Great Oslo, mountains and pig-grown food processing, among others. Upland. Attaboy, no! State Council of Malta sings the same old visa again, where quantity in travel life is about to go beyond just quality. Furthermore, I want to challenge the Council of State on the extent to which the government is able to think across disciplines. The centre party will promote transport, road and broadband, education, vocational training and professional careers, and a fair working life as keys to value-making and productivity growth across the country. This requires that we see bets and returns in the context and across the department. Representatives from the government parties refer from this pulpit to the room for growth and development of new businesses. Digitalisation, ICT and IT are being promoted. What these parties forget is the need for infrastructure where building on their own initiative is not necessarily economically sound. The supply of electricity, mobile coverage, broadband and fibre must be in place. This is where the Central Party wants a far greater bet than what the budget agreement puts up. The government continues to invest in regional development funds. These have been evaluated by Telemarks research to be accurate, flexible and free of specific administrative costs for the counties. So businesses have flourished all over the country without the government seeing the value of this. Norway deserves us to see and want development across the country. This is how the Center Party will fight for - be sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1466	In the financial debate on Monday 4 November, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance set out the characteristics of ‘smart’, ‘innovative’ and ‘green’ growth. Let me briefly summarise, because there are many ways in which the government's industrial policy can improve Norway's performance in these three areas. ‘Smart’: A reasonable interpretation of ‘smart’ is that one has a high score on the so-called ‘DESI’ survey, The Digital Economy and Society Index, from the World Economic Forum and the EU. Here Norway comes out as number two of the countries of Europe. That's very good. What about ‘innovative’? The standard objective here is the Global Innovation Index, which is run by INSEAD and the World Patent Organisation, WIPO, etc. It shows that in 2017, Norway is in its 19th place globally, but at a falling trend compared to when the government began, and Norway is consistently worse than our Nordic neighbours. I note that Minister of Industry Mæland says that the government's investment is historically good. The question is, of course, whether it is real, seen from the outside. In addition to the government's view that climate policy does not have an impact on petroleum policy, as the representative Heggelund has said, it is the industry policy of the blue-blue government that does not deliver green growth and that needs the Prime Minister's greenwashing. And what's so green enough? Each year, the OECD publishes an overview of green growth indicators. Here Denmark, Sweden and Finland are at the peak, while Norway is well below the OECD average on the main indicator: annual carbon productivity. There we are under 2 pst. annual. So Norway is far below the level recommended by the New Climate Economy Report: at least 5 pst. improvement per year. The examination office then reported an A on ‘smart’, a C minus on ‘innovative’ and an F, i.e. ‘green’. Compared to our neighboring countries, we are less innovative and quite gray. This state budget means that the word ‘green’ is hollowed out and loses its meaning when it comes from the government’s mouth — it’s greenwash. It is possible that it is a coincidence, but Prime Minister Erna Solberg wrote the day after in the VG that ‘blue policy gives green growth’. Sorry, but it does not help to complain about the exam result. Government policy does not deliver green growth and the impact of green growth is maintained. Norway has advantages of competence and natural resources that give us very special opportunities. Innovation Norway has pointed to the ocean, bioeconomy, clean energy, smart cities, health and well-being, creative industries and travel. But innovation and, in particular, commercialisation are small. According to INSEAD, OECD, WIPO, Argentum, etc. We're under mediocre. Abelia calls the budget unrelentingly lurking. It's called gray-blue. The government, by Meland, calls it historically good. The number of strategy processes is not so much to say, but it is not reflected in the budget. I record that the reality descriptions are far from each other. We may have to wait for a proper crash before resuming the course. I hope that won't be necessary. Believe me, it hurts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1489	This government says it is busy with animal welfare and safe food. It's a pleasure for the Center Party. A number of important tasks have been assigned to the Food Authority, such as: the work on pancreatic disease, where one goes to work as drastic as slaughtering all the reindeer in the North Mountain. When a set of measures is taken, there is a need for additional resources to be provided to the Food Safety Authority, so that other important tasks such as reducing antibiotic use, the important control work on the import of animals and, in particular, the prevention of animal welfare are not at all affected. It's a paradox to me when the cooperative parties boast of expanding the system of own animal police, as well as weakening the ability of the Food Authority to carry out preventive work. The center party is my prevention and preventing unfortunate events is decisive. A lack of food supervision can also lead to fewer cases being detected, and less police work. The right-wing representative Nilsen was busy, was that the farmer should be entitled to enter into an option agreement. But he wouldn't let the peasant run his own funds through the information offices to secure a market balance and a result for the farmer. It reinforces my impression that the Right is most occupied by the farmers who want to sell themselves out of the industry. The Minister of Agriculture claimed that option agreements are not a problem for soil protection. For us who have been following this for years, that's not what's my impression, at least. We see how many times it has our challenges because it has our option agreements: the earth has not been properly driven, and it has been easier to re-dispose it in the next round. Once again, it has made decisions more serious for the state and for the government to make decisions from the municipalities. Right-wing boasted during the financial debate that there have been fewer changes of municipal decisions during this government than during the previous one. Yes, exactly – the clear impression is that the statesmen feel that they are not being backed up when they change municipal decisions. Little by little, there have been fewer transformations, precisely because one has basically been more busy with local self-government than with a protection of the Earth that takes care of an eternal resource, which we need in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1502	What I think is peculiar to this debate, and which concerns me, is that the Right Party and the Progress Party are so brilliantly pleased with the development that no one sees dark clouds, that no one cares about the low investment in the mainland industry. Another theme I want to enter is the Christian People's Party. I'm glad they support the income development as formulated. There was some criticism of a comment made by the Central Party. I mean it's a logical consequence of what the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and several other parties did in ours. To balance the market, there must be a means of balancing the market. There is nothing but what the Centre Party has pointed to. What I think is very serious in this debate is going on in a field that has great potential when it comes to jobs and value creation in Norway in the future, the construction sector. We're going to spend 1,000 billion. kr on the road and rail for the next 12 years. When I challenge the Minister of Industry whether one has invited Chinese people to build roads in Norway, or if one has not invited Chinese people to build roads in Norway, I get a lesson – and that is a somewhat doubtful statistic – about the EEA company that has come to Norway. That's not what I'm asking. I believe that the Minister of Industry must clarify: Has she been in China and invited Chinese entrepreneurs to Norway? SMK says according to Trunder-Avise that they can have any option on. But if you invite someone home, and especially if it's China, you think about it, even if it was on a big reception it happened. The reason why this is important to clarify is just to find out what the government strategy is. Do you want to expand a Norwegian plant industry around the investments to be made, or will an imported labour force from China have to solve these tasks? Would you like to invest in building up skills in Norway, or will a mere Chinese competence be acquired? How do we regulate, for example: this with pay and working conditions in such a situation? I register that according to Trønder-Avisa nectar the Ministry of Economic Affairs because they have had conversations with Chinese road construction actors in Norway. SMK is a little bit uncertain about who they've met, but they've come to Norway. They have sent a letter to Monica Mæland and thank you for the invitation, so I expect the Council of State to clarify in the debate: Is it the government strategy that a Chinese entrepreneur wants to enter Norway, or would a rather bet in the Norwegian construction sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1515	Agriculture is a long-term industry that requires stable framework conditions. It must be profitable to produce food in Norway. Active agriculture throughout the country shall be used to ensure safe food production with good plant and animal health and animal welfare. The use of the soil to produce food is soil protection, and we want to prevent irreversible changes in food soils. One must facilitate differentiated agriculture with a varied structure of use, and the recruitment must be strengthened. This has been left for too long, and we will continue to be. The left is also for investment vehicles to be used deliberately to contribute to so-called differentiated agriculture and livestock farming across the country. Agriculture shall increase the value creation of production adapted to the climate, environment and consumption. Education, advice and research must be strengthened and adapted to climate change, technological development and increased knowledge. The benefits we have through Norwegian breeding, low antibiotic and pesticide consumption, good animal health and animal welfare and small unit production contribute to increased value creation. There must be an open and transparent balancing of markets and production regulation, so that it is understood and accepted for its proper functioning. The left wants simplification measures for all types of operators, but simplification of agriculture must not be at the expense of the purpose of the schemes. The initiative, which was launched by the State Council of the Left Lars Sponheim to strengthen the production and processing of local food, has worked. The synergy between tourism, food culture, health and care and other entrepreneurship and agriculture should be further strengthened. Norway is a country with unique raw materials and skilled professionals and entrepreneurs. That is why we must also hold back. Agriculture has a particularly important place in future Norway. The left will have an innovative, sustainable and environmentally friendly agriculture. Climate policy needs to be pursued where rural and agricultural policy objectives are pursued based on knowledge and targeted action, and agricultural pollution needs to be reduced. I also believe that the voluntary sector in Norway makes an important contribution to Norwegian agriculture and food culture, and I am pleased that the subsidies to non-governmental organisations are continued in the budgetary agreement. In addition, I am pleased that the new food culture centres for children and young people, which are under construction in Brumunddal and Kristiansand, are strengthening their work on food and food culture. Now I'm kind of jumping into this debate, but I have to be allowed to say that I'm a little worried about the debate we had in ours, that we're going in and direct towards the agricultural negotiations. I hear that the representative Pollestad is basically pointing backwards, but now we're starting to direct this towards the target price, and we're going to quickly get an overproduction of which agriculture definitely doesn't benefit, so it's going to be a worse development. I also hope that the representative Pollestad and others. takes this over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1534	I would like to make a few comments on some of what has been said in the debate – a little to clarify and at least to make the Right View known. All first to the Workers' Party. That's three things. One of them is in the line exchange I had with the representative of Aasland about the sale and sale of state enterprises. Now we all know that the red-green government won the Norway Championship in the sale of state ownership, but I still have to ask how it can be called dynamic, as the representative called it, when you write that you will vote against any proposal for sales and sales. Furthermore, also to the Workers' Party – just an emphasis on the point they had in one of their posts, namely that two out of three jobs came in private business under the red-green government. Yes, so has this government. From 2013 to 2017, two out of three jobs have been created in private business, with a backstop where 50,000 private jobs disappeared almost overnight. The last of the Workers' Party. It was the representative from Buskerud who pointed out in his post that was about forest – even I grew up in another forest, namely Hedmark – that the market has never been the answer for forestry. I don't think that's entirely historical. From the 1500s onwards and over 300 years forward, it was then to the degree market that was the answer for forestry, both with the mining industry, with exports of timber and with processing. Yeah, you even got what was called a plank noodle. And there was a need for regulation. There is also something on the Right that there is an industry that definitely needs to target the market, but where there is a need for regulation from time to time. At the very end of my post, I want to make a visit to the Center Party. I have to say that I don't always think the rhetoric is entirely benign when you call it the targeted measures to weaken – or as we heard in the financial debate: deliberate attacks on business. But on the other hand, it's important to deal with the fact. And the fact is that the number of foreign providers in road and rail construction in Norway is lower than in a long time. When we took over in the government, it was up to a quarter of the contract value that could go to foreign providers, while in 2017 it seems to be below 5 p.m., i.e. a severe decline and of course positive for Norwegian contractors. So if the representative Pollestad wanted the government's strategy, obviously the figures from 2013 to 2017 must show that the strategy has been that Norwegian providers are essentially allowed to expand both the road and the track in Norway, if measured in contract value.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1547	We have every reason to be proud of Norwegian agriculture. Profitability is increasing, and there is optimism and investment desire among farmers. Youth flows into agricultural education, both at secondary and higher education levels. Besides, we have the world's purest agriculture, and that's very good. We have prioritised it so that today it pays to run for those who invest and rate, and we have a goal that farmers get the most of their income from the markets, and that subsidies are to be set up so that they pay off to increase production. In the large picture, we see that food production has increased with the current policy. The increase in productivity has been higher here than in other industries. Even though there are fewer farmers, more is produced. Before that, the farmers did not get paid for the productivity increase, and there were a lot of negative feedback on it. Now you get it to a greater extent. In volume production, it has been appropriate to increase, but in terms of these so-called major uses, we do not have natural conditions for giant industries, which are run in Denmark and in Europe. They have become a little larger, so that there have been opportunities for farmers to exploit the technology available on the market. But as I said naturally, it's not getting huge. All farms are different. The big ones are important and provide us with access to volume products. We've also seen a big bet on niche products. These are quality products for which people are willing to pay more. At Melhus, my municipality of residence, we have a farm called Granøien farm, and there they run with free-range pigs. Their ribs are swine, but it is torn away in a moment. People are willing to pay a little bit more for it. These are niche products that pure commercial traders sell directly in the market. Finally, two words about the agricultural climate pressure: increasing food production and reducing climate pressure are not necessarily the opposite. Norwegian red fairy is also today a climate-efficient cow. It gives us both milk and meat and contributes to biodiversity through grazing, while the landscape in which it lives contributes to high CO2 binding. I just read that Toyota is building a power plant based on methane from the coyote. Agriculture may prove to be part of the solution for a green shift. It is very good to hear that the EU has also decided that the UN's sustainability objectives should be the basis for policy choices in all areas of society, including trade policy. The fact that sustainability is becoming trendy is good news for Norwegian agriculture. Here we have some advantages, so the future of Norwegian agriculture is bright.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1564	The ability for self-crustness is great in the government parties. It is only exceeded by the capacity for discharge when one is met with the consequences of political action and decisions taken in budgetary terms. Some of the most imaginative thing I've heard here today is that the increased VAT on travel is going to be the result of the tax settlement. The tax settlement has been closed through 17 points for follow-up. There is nothing at all there that deals with VAT and increased VAT on travel life. On the contrary, several of the parties involved in the tax settlement went against the previous increase in VAT, for example. travel lives, which occurred at the same time as the tax return was provided. In the tax communication, the government put forward a proposal to increase the VAT rate from 8 p.m. until 10 p.m., and that it was to happen in the period 2016-2018. Even in the government's own tax notice, there is a basis for the current increase in VAT. But maybe it was the tax committee the representative Ebbesen was thinking about when she said earlier today that one had coverage for increased VAT on travel life. The Tax Committee proposed that the VAT rate on travel should be increased from 8 p.m. to 15 pst. Is that what we can expect is going on now, when one in two laps has already increased VAT on travel life? Should it further raise and weaken the conditions of competition for an important industry for Norway? I have also registered that once again neither the Right Party nor the Progress Party – nor the Left – want to stand up for what one does in terms of the chocolate and sugar levy and the targeted attack on the actors in the food industry. I hear one say that the Workers' Party came with an increase in the VAT rate in their order. Is it so that one looks at what other party that is not involved in the negotiations promotes in its budget? Well, in one area, one should have followed up the bulk of the population, namely by removing the special scheme with a limit of 350 kroner on duty-free imports via networks from abroad. There's nothing you can do. There is a direct weakening of Norwegian actors, and then one fills up with a targeted increase in addition to the sugar and chocolate charge. This is a bad business policy, as well as a bad public health policy. One should focus on targeted measures to strengthen Norwegian business. It does not deal with the measures promoted by the government here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1574	Several from the socialist parties have repeatedly called for bets from this government. One doesn't get everything in his posts, but let me just briefly take this with industrial research and innovation. In 2018, direct industrial research and innovation: 4,664 billion. kr. If you add another one to the Tax Fund and the Capital Fund, it'll be 4,730 billion. kr. So it's going to be 9.4 billion. kr in 2018. There is an increase from 2013 until now of 4.5 billion. kr, i.e. almost a double, or over a double if you bring the Capital FUND. If you can't say that at least that's a bet, then I don't understand anything. In marine research, the increase in 2018 is 2.1 billion. kr. It is also claimed in this debate that the Council of State and the Government have not followed up the decision of the Storting regarding the production and area charges. The payment did not adopt an area charge, they did not adopt a production charge. The measure imposed an export tax on unprocessed fish. For those who were present and took part in the debate when this was adopted, it became clear that the Stortinget did not want a land tax, did not want a production tax. That was made clear in the debate. The story behind this is that in 2015 a total increase said no to the area charge, no to the production fee, and they said yes to the farm fund. In 2016, the entire Stortinget joined the government's proposal for a marine fund. It is quite true that you want a production fee, or a land tax, but you cannot say that the government has not followed up the Storting decision. It was also said that the Council of State does not listen to the Stortinget. I ask that the examples where the Council of State – or the government – has not listened to the Stortinget should be promoted in a suitable way, because then it is about mistrust. I have acted on all the decisions, formulations and leadership that the Storting has made. But that the opposition and the socialists want to make it like I'm not listening to the Storting, that's another thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1588	In the light of the speeches that have been made in this debate, I need to clarify a few things. Point one, on Food and Animal Welfare: To the extent that the opposition would be wise to believe that the Food Authority is responsible for animal welfare in Norway, let me just say emphatically that it is the animal owners who are responsible for it. The fact that animal owners act irresponsiblely in the light of their lack of food supervision at the door is either a gross underestimation of animal owners or a gross overestimation of the frequency of supervision by the Food Authority. It's good to have cleared this path once and for all. The other concerns the issue of information activity, the extent to which agriculture is to be subject to a turnover tax and the manner in which it is to be used. I record – to my surprise, I believe I can add – that the opposition, consisting of, among other things, the opposition. The centre lot and the Labour Party, in the setting, order that a Norwegian beef producer be ordered to pay a turnover tax to advertise the consumption of red meat. It's a very formidable starting point for a discussion, which I didn't expect from either the Labour Party or the Center Party, but I'm taking it to heart. Then it is the right of the representative Nils Bjørke, that this government has placed emphasis on the municipal self-government when we have dealt with complaints from both the State and other complaints bodies. But the fact that we were going to get the hell out of the Center Party because we're putting too much emphasis on municipal self-government is worth noting. This shows that it has one opposition – mostly in common – is a common enemy. It may be strengthening for internal cohesion itself, but one does not drive the country forward with such a way of acting. For this reason, I am pleased that the four parties which had a cooperation agreement in the previous period, and which in this period will once again prove to be capable of ruling the country safely in demanding times, again make up the majority of the budget, as a contribution to growth and value creation in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1601	Thank you for a good debate. Not unexpectedly, reality looks a little different depending on whether you're in position or opposition. The background for me taking the floor was an invitation I got from the committee chairman to clarify what really happened in China, and I'd like to do that. We had our first trip to China in very many years. A historically large business delegation came to China, and that's because China is our most important and largest market in Asia. Making good calls has been important, and the fact that we have now started negotiations on a free trade agreement is also important because – and it is in contradiction with what the representative tried to give the impression – this is about securing Norwegian jobs. When we want to increase trade with the largest market in Asia, it's about securing Norwegian jobs. During that trip a number of meetings, a number of conferences and a number of receptions were held, and this named company was invited to at least one conference and reception, together with actually more than 400 others. I understand that the representative Pollestad is an expert at being in China and being invited home. I can't answer for it, but I can answer for how to act on such travels after having committed any of them for four years. Then it is quite normal to meet people, quite normally to greet people, quite normally to exchange courtesy and e.g.. invite them to the country they represent. No meetings were held, no talks were held about any road projects at any reception in Shanghai, but we greeted a number of people and exchanged courtesy. A letter from this company has been received in the department. It was further dispatched to the Ministry of Transport, which has rightly addressed this type of enquiry. And then I just have to say that Norway has no agreements with China, and that means that those who have announced the offer are free to accept or refuse to accept offers that have come from China. We don't control it from here. I also understand that Pollestad thinks it is uninteresting how much foreign share is in Norwegian road projects now compared to when the red-green ones crashed. I understand that as the proportion has fallen significantly in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1614	The Norwegian model stands in the way of the Norwegian people. Progress Party leader Siv Jensen believes that. That's the same way the Progress Party also thinks about our food. Clock policies that have provided jobs and safe food in Norway over time are to be eliminated and market liberalism is to be introduced. Just think about this: is there any country in the world that has such a scarce soil resource as Norway, which has managed to create as great values and food of the quality that we have here to land? I would like that example to like the Progress Party to come up on this platform and give me. In today's debate, we need a clean-up once and for all, because food production continues to grow. Yes, food production is increasing, but Stortinget has made it clear that food production will increase on the basis of Norwegian resources. It doesn't leave Dale to answer, and we don't hear either that Right-Representative Gimse gets into that point of the pulpit. That is what is Norwegian agricultural policy and the main objective is adopted in this Chamber. The representative of Skkelstad has an important point of avoiding overproduction, and we are just seeing that it is a major challenge today. It may seem that we have a government that throws petrol at the stake instead of providing targeted measures for balance in the markets. Information offices are one of those measures. It is a cooperative body for traders, which itself pays the turnover tax. So when the state council comes up and later as if this was not wanted by the sole proprietors, it is completely wrong. It is the Norwegian agricultural industry that really wants a tool to help balance markets. Balance in the markets is forward-looking. It provides stability in prices. Stability in prices is a prerequisite for farmers and traders to know what the future will be like. We will have many important debates related to food in the years to come. One thing is certain: it is the Stortinget that has outstretched the course of increased food production in Norwegian resources, and we have good news from this pulpit that the Right Party and the Advance Party intend to accept and follow up that policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1627	The center party wants local self-government, but there's one thing we've always said must be superior, and that's the protection of cultivated land. We have 3 pst. land cultivation in Norway, and we see that the municipalities – and it is almost independent of which party is in charge – are unable to withstand when large groups come and promise jobs and a lot of development. Therefore, we are totally dependent on one having a national governance of soil protection. It is irreversible, something that cannot be done with. It is especially important to listen to the Progress Party, which will not let the municipalities decide if they should have a property tax, they will not let the municipalities decide if they should merge or stand for themselves. There are actually schemes like one, if one sees that it doesn't work well, can change again – while the protection of the Earth is something else – once and for all, once one has lifted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1632	When I sit and hear the debate, perhaps especially the state councils, I come up with a few words from a former central right-wing person, Willoch: now everything is going so much better. The Minister of Economic Affairs had a similar level of self-satisfaction in his speech. It's really a pretty demanding position to take as long as not everything goes very well, as long as it's still quite demanding times too many. It is also problematic that the Norwegian economy is beginning to be almost freshly notified in terms of business and the job growth and employment opportunities that lie there. It's going to be a little bit weird. Just to get up to the same level as in 2013, 50 000 more jobs have to be created in 2019 – in addition to what the government has said. It tells us a little bit about where we are and where we should get there. Øystein Dørum, vice-president of the NHO, said to NBF's annual conference: We build roads and housing, not businesses for the future. It does not appear that such statements concern the Minister of Industry at all. The problem is that the investments made are too low, and they may not go into forward-looking jobs. The same applies to forests. It is not right, as the Minister of Agriculture says, that there is investment and great optimism. On the contrary, there are quite major challenges to getting investment in new forest industries in place. It should concern the Minister of Agriculture much more that one does not devalue more than one, and that much of the deforestation actually takes place goes out of the country, not to substantiate investment and Norwegian value creation in Norway. This should concern the Minister of Agriculture – just as 700 Norwegian seafarers are put ashore, so the Minister of Industry should be concerned. There is nothing shiny about the maritime industry and e.g. coastal paint industry in these days — on the contrary, there is a rather high degree of frustration associated with low activity. The government is helping to further reduce the activity as they increase the CO 2 tax on LNG, which could have been an opportunity to build forward-looking ships in a transitional phase towards the low-emission society. There are many things that suggest that the Norwegian economy is not freshly reported, and there is a great cause for concern that there is no more investment in Norwegian business than it is added up to. The government's policy in those areas has been totally flawed. The fiscal policy that has been pursued does not contribute to increased investment, nor to more jobs. It's a problem that the government should address.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1650	I would like to make a small comment on an article by the representative Gharakhani of the Workers' Party. In fact, I very much agree with him when he says that the jobs of the future are in the woods. He also says that we need further processing of Norwegian forest products to create more values, and he says that there is too little production in Norway. That's where the disagreement begins. I also agree that a whole bunch of woodworking companies have disappeared over the years, with the good help of the party to the representative, the Workers' Party. Forest owners sold more than 10 million. m 3 timber for industrial purposes in 2016. There hasn't been so much timber since the late 1980s here in Norway. The figure for external trade in goods shows that 3.5 million. m 3 was exported. It's 500,000 m 3 less than the year before. Exports are decreasing, further processing is taking place in Norway, and more timber is being cut. What's so nice is to know that this government has contributed to the forest owners being given the opportunity to extract more timber. We increased the appropriations for construction of forest roads by 66 million. NOK 69 million. NOK 135 million. kr. At the same time, we increased the appropriations for the construction of timber brands by 45 million. NOK 30 million. NOK 75 million. kr. We have also opened up the use of modular vehicles on Norwegian roads, which are suitable for this purpose. At the same time, we have also changed the mandate of Investinor, so that companies such as the representative of the Workers' Party, namely Splitkon, have the opportunity to apply for grants and to participate in and further process products in Norway and increase value creation. We're going to see more of this, because this government delivers what they say: more jobs, more production, more logging.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1666	When the representative of Aasland criticises the government that there is too little logging from Norwegian forests, there is reason to go a little after that. Cutting is bigger now than in very many years. When one hears the criticism from Aasland, it reminds us who sees football, a little bit about when Tottenham hit Stoke 5-1 on the weekend, and the Stoke supporters are going to have the bullying Tottenham fan so they didn't win 7-1. That's about the same ratio here. Cut-off goes up. It is possible that we sometimes become a little self-righteous, but it may also be that the Workers' Party should see some sort of light point when the development goes the right way. To other Labour Party representatives who are still concerned about market liberalism in Norwegian agriculture, I regret to say that there is a lot of good in Norwegian agriculture, but market liberalism is little of it. What it's focused on, on the other hand, is increasing output. Once again, when a claim is made that the goal of increased food production is not just to increase it, but to increase it on the basis of Norwegian resources, I will do something very unusual. It called for Per Olaf Lundtigen in this debate, because he is at least one of a few from the opposition who has understood what it actually entails. This leads, inter alia, to: the need for imported feed and the cost rise. The feed price is rising. I proposed this year’s agricultural policy to increase the potential for food production to grow in Norwegian resources. What did Stortinget do? Yeah, with the Labour Party in front, they started renegotiating the feed price. One must at least be for the sum of all the suggestions you have, if one is to check out from the pulpit in Stortinget. I think it's possible to use the feed resources we have in Norway more effectively. For this reason, we have stimulated outreachism much more than ever before. For this reason, we have reinforced the channelling policy so that livestock production does not interfere with cereals. Consequently, the increase in cereal yields in the cereals sector is a major factor in ensuring the profitability of basic production, which has a significant impact on the Norwegian level of self-sufficiency. But it can't be too much without taking the consequence that one also has to give priority. That's where the Workers' Party still has a potential for development in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1673	I also noticed that the representative of Aasland was concerned with dynamic and flexible policies. That's exactly what you're trying to do from this government. But it is regularly felt that the Storting wants to stop this dynamics and this flexibility, that is to say change a little of the working conditions between collapse and government. I also registered that the representative of Aasland wanted to invest. At least I have to say that when I travel along the coast as the Council of State in the field of fisheries and aquaculture, I experience massive investment – an enormous investment desire. Only within the scope of development permits, if everyone had received a positive response to their applications, the industry would have been willing to invest $10 billion. I also see it in the fisheries sector. Last week, I met different businessmen in Northern Ireland, where investment was enormous. Today's press clips show that millions of marine research, ready for the giant, the port of opportunity, the Mecca of opportunity, whaling and increased quotas, new construction provide new opportunities, joy over new fishing reception in Lødingen, impressively large catches, Sea farm preparing for farm giants. One would not think that any of this existed, when one listens to this debate and a big representative today who says that pessimism prevails. No, there is optimism, joy and positivity all along the coast. That's what I'm experiencing. It is possible that I might have a different perception of reality, but at least that's the impression I'm left with after almost two years as a fisheries minister and 250 travel days a year. I also notice that this sugar charge is being discussed. Some are a little happy with it, some are a little bit more happy with it. I registered that the head of the Business Committee, from the Centre Party, hassled with the fee increase, but he closed his post with the wish for a fee increase in aquaculture. I have to say that introducing a fee on healthy food, i.e. fish, has to be pointless when we are discussing introducing a levy on sugar, which some people think is unhealthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1684	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandtrøen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1689	A brief comment is needed, for the main point is – as I have made on several occasions – the difference between what a large number of people have adopted, which the Minister of Agriculture obviously has to deal with, and what the Progress Party believes. That is right: we still have market organisations and property legislation, as several important parts of the Norwegian food policy. This is a fundamental and practical policy against which the Progress Party is actually opposed. My point is this: these tools with more are essential for us to have food production, whether it is in the West or in North Norway. When production areas in the west and north go out of operation and we hear about increased Norwegian food production, it's an equation that doesn't jump. This means that we again need an active policy to use the resources we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1696	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1702	Although you're very concerned with both dynamic movements and dynamics, one may never have such great love for the dynamics that one is for all the dynamics Sandberg has in it at all times – just to underline it. I think the father who lies in the self-satisfaction that he shows is quite obvious. It's demanding. It is not unambiguously positive along the coast. And a little bit of the same thing to the Minister of Agriculture. The question is, shouldn't the activity be larger? Is it not a cause for concern that so much is exported, that so much of the activity in Norwegian forest is just supported by exports and not by undermining investments in own forest industry? That's what should worry. Instead of taking on such a self-satisfaction grievances, he should be more concerned about how to create new jobs, future-oriented jobs, and not least make sure that there is more investment in Norwegian business in the future, like the concern expressed by the Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1709	I was uncertain whether there was at all any sense in saying anything more, especially to the Minister of Fisheries, but after the notion we just got to see here by the Minister and his drawing of the picture along the coast, I think there is a need for a little reality orientation. Yeah, it's all right along the coast. It's going well in many places in many parts of the industry. But with regard to the optimism that Councillor Sandberg referred to – and much is because of himself – I think it's a good idea to read all the media releases. Because what he's left with is that there's a great optimism because of his policy along the coast. But he should listen to those who also disagree with him, who believe that it is not just going well, who believe that he is taking care of himself where he should not get along. I can refer to some simple issues, such as the mission message, for which he went in with the blush and blush along the coast – here you would really clean up and scrape the whole system. It ended up that the minister had to draw the whole thing because you were along the coast in fire and flame because of Per Sandberg. Then we have the Klo case, which we'll get back to, and we have the case that came this summer, with the increase in the quota ceiling. So my advice to the Minister for Fisheries, if I may give him advice, is that he should read all the media storages, including those he does not agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1720	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1725	In the Committee's proposal for Decision DI, it is desirable that one of the words «the information society» be followed by the words «in agriculture» in order to clarify the nature of the decision. There is no change in the substance of the decision as it arises. Then I am also happy that one has received an answer and was told that the government has invited Chinese interests to Norway. I think that there's such a big shift in our approach to road construction and how we're going to deal with it, that it's going to the Center Party to follow up on it, because I think it's an important principle clarification whether we're going to bet on our own resources, or whether we're going to go out into the world and shop as cheap as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1732	It's almost Christmas, and I'm not going to be a meeting plague, but I think it's interesting to discuss fisheries policy and aquaculture policy. No, everything is not unilaterally positive, there are still some challenges. This is also why major issues are being addressed in this room, both in aquaculture and in fisheries. That is also why I started today by saying that I want a broad cooperation with Stortinget to put in place predictable solutions for both fisheries and aquaculture. But then you depend on someone who is inclined to meet in this kind of dialogue and has an intention to settle. I'm not satisfied in any way, because I know there's a huge potential out there. There's so much, much more to pick up. It knows the Norwegian seafood industry, it knows Norwegian fishermen, it knows Norwegian aquaculture, it knows the scientists – everyone knows that. Then it's about putting in place the framework conditions that just make it possible to extract even more of the potential that lies in the ocean. That is why the government has put forward this maritime strategy, with nearly a hundred measures, and that is why we have put forward a bioeconomy strategy, because we know that there is enormous potential out there. But when I quoted from today's press clips, it was to try to give a picture that at least somewhere is going well – but you wouldn't think so either, based on the debate. And then again I hear that I am ‘making myself right.’ I have followed up the leadings and decisions of the Storting in all manner of ways. If Stortinget, whose representatives from the Workers' Party believe that I have not done so, they have an opportunity to do something about it. In the case of the obligation message: I did not have to draw an obligation message. That's the story of the Workers' Party. I drew the obligation message simply because you couldn't get a majority on the Stortinget. For the industry it would have been very unfortunate. So it was the Labour Party that took the initiative, along with the rest of the committee, to set down this expert commission to see all the duties in context. Then there came a commission of experts that suggested what we should do with the notification of duty. They proposed to scrape this. I entered into a dialogue with other parties at this house, changed something in this message, but the majority that existed when you went to the Stortinget, did not exist when the Stortinget was going to deal with the matter. That is why the matter was dropped. I have done a number of actions over two years. I have not seen that – at least not from the Labour Party – they wanted to reverse everything that has been done in relation to what is absolutely necessary for the industry, from day to day, in order to obtain flexibility and the necessary progress for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1749	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, three, four. We then go back to case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1767	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1776	The proposal for a representative, Document 8:21 S for 2017-2018, has been examined by the Business Committee and there are two proposals for decisions. In addition to this, there is a majority comment from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party linked to the so-called Klo case. This has been an exciting matter to work on – there have been short delays, it is a matter of a lot of feelings that definitely engages, and this is my first rapporteur's case. The Minister for Fisheries has repeatedly confirmed that the Eidesen Committee is going to the Stortinget. This also confirmed a unanimous committee and provided an opportunity to find good future solutions for the Eiden Committee. At the same time, I would like to stress that the Eiden Committee does not take into account an overall review, as referred to in several contexts. I am pleased that the proposals made in the draft representative do not receive a majority. Should have happened then, it had definitely changed the division of labour between big business and government. The public debate on the proposal for a representative has received the most attention in the so-called Clos. The Minister of Fisheries has received a lot of criticism here for dealing with this matter and the way he has concluded, but this is a criticism I believe is the wrong address. I note that the exemption granted was based on a formal application. The application has been dealt with in an ordinary manner in the Ministry, and it is referred to in the decision as a legal basis in Section 6 of the Act of Participation, which was adopted unanimously in the Stortinget in its time. It is quite legitimate to believe that such exemptions should under no circumstances be granted – which has been done several times by different governments – but are contrary to the law that provides for exemptions and, by way of derogation, it is necessary to amend the law that provides for exemptions. There are many descriptions used in the debate on the Klo case. SV's description is that the Klo case can mean the end of fishing boats. The centre party is startled by the fact that, once in the future, foreigners can take the fish away from us. I was visiting the company last Thursday. I recommend that everyone who thinks this is the beginning at the end, to do the same, because then you'll see that it's neither a start nor an end, but a continuation of a fishing activity on the sea and land that has stretched for 108 years and 5 generations, and that makes Stø i Øksnes a still viable community. If you don't want to visit Stø, you can listen to Øksne's Presidency, where a unanimous presidency, with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party, clearly justify why they believe that there should be a derogation, as the Minister has done. It is also not new that there is a derogation from the participant law. When the Workers' Party granted a smoking exemption from the same law home, it was not much afraid to track that the rights were going to end up on foreign hands. During 2016, a derogation from the Labour Party Act in government was fished in excess of 28 000 tonnes. ‘Morgenstar’, which is the boat Klo-saken was about, fished in the same period of 210 tonnes, which is the quota on the boat. From this I will characterize it as a strange form of fear that this debate is raised. National ownership of fisheries resources is well enshrined in the Marine Resource Act and in the nationality requirement. In 1972, a unanimous increase in participant law adopted § 6. I'm sure it wasn't smoke you thought about when you passed the law, it was the exception – Gunnar Klo AS on Myre in the beautiful Western needle.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1799	The Workers' Party will guarantee that fishing resources will continue to belong to the people in common in the future. We will ensure a fishing trip fleet and that the nationality requirement is maintained in accordance with the provisions of the participant law. For us in the Workers' Party, it is important to insist that we have a varied fleet structure, we must ensure industry access to raw materials, which in turn will help create jobs – that is, lights in the houses along the coast all year round. Predictability and long-termity are important in all industrial policies. If policy is to be predictable, it must find a majority in this Chamber. The fishing fleet and local communities have been through a long period of debate, with uncertainties about framework conditions and a piecemeal and shared policy, as well as all the other uncertainties that have to be addressed. Councillor Sandberg has on several occasions promoted issues that contribute to more concern. In order to create predictability, account must be taken of the majority position in the Grand Duchy. There can be no attempt to change policy principles through regulatory changes and derogations. That's what this case is about. The majority of the Industry Committee is therefore clear in its feedback to the Minister and has also been clear in the past. In the past, a majority in the Committee expressed concern that major issues of principle were decided by the government without involving the Stortinget, which led the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, to state that: ‘Significant legislative changes, which may have an impact on the overall objectives of the Marine Resource Act and the Participation Act, shall be promoted for the Storting as its own cases.’;» The same majority has further pointed out and underlined that: ‘The size will address structural issues in the fishing fleet as a whole as part of the follow-up to the government’s expert selection to determine what the quota system for the fishing fleet should be in the future.’ It must be allowed to ask if the minister has got it with him, and how he has dealt with it. And in the light of the proposal we are now considering, the Committee has put forward the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to provide a major communication on fisheries policy as soon as possible, on the basis of the follow-up to the Eidesen Committee.’ The size of the population needs a comprehensive case of fisheries policy to be addressed. The majority of the Business Committee has also considered that such a matter is urgent. I can't get away from the Klo case. It's a principle. It is the first time that an exemption related to industrial ownership of coastal fishing vessels is granted and the preparatory work of the Participant Act refers to the exemption from the activity requirement only in relation to the fresh fishing and trawl fleet and other parts of the sea fishing fleet. The state council has not here been able to provide any justification for the Storting. I am pleased that the Workers' Party is part of a majority that says, ‘The majority therefore ask the Government not to use the exemption of the participation law of the industry’s acquisition of coastal fishing vessels until further clarifications have been made with the Stortinget.’ I expect, of course, that the Council of State in the debate will clarify how he deals with this. It is also of particular importance that the Minister of Fisheries chose to increase the quota ceiling as the Storting took a summer holiday, which has also been responded to. It may in turn affect recruitment and make it more expensive to enter the industry. I am excited about how the Minister for Fisheries will deal with this matter. I'm also excited when we get a complete case for the Stortinget with a background in the Eidesen Committee. I expect the Minister to come fairly quickly to Stortinget with a comprehensive policy, because it is urgent. Finally, I would like to mention proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1840	The representative Cecilie Myrseth has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1845	The matter we are dealing with today started as a matter to stop all structuring of the fishing fleet and to deprive the Minister of Fisheries of the power to follow the rules of the participant law. This was a rather serious starting point, especially given that the profitability we see today, on both small and large vessels in our fishing fleet, among other things. is due to the rational restructuring which has taken place since the mid-1990s and since the termination of the fisheries agreement. It has given us a high-growth industry, an industry that has high profitability – significantly higher profitability than in most other industries that are legitimate in this country – and it has been a successful policy in that way. At the same time, it has also secured the industry on land, for example. through the obligation arrangement and it has ensured activity throughout the country. Even I come from a state where a large part of the pelagic fleet has its home staff. It started with a proposal to stop all fisheries policy in Norway. It has ended with a decision to get a message, which has, after all, been notified. In addition, as mentioned above, there is a comment that encourages the Council of State not to follow up its responsibilities under the Participant Act, which is to assess waiver applications on the basis of the basis of which Stortinget has previously granted a derogation. It is said that it is the proposals made by the Council of State that have created uncertainty in the fishing industry. It's not my reality when I talk to the fishing industry. On the contrary, it is among other things. that the Workers' Party responds ‘not knowing’ when they are asked what they intend to do with the obligation system, which is part of the background to the uncertainty outside – not least the uncertainty of companies that are to invest in the 100 million class of new vessels in Norwegian shipyards, the ship that is going out to do a job at sea. The note to urge the Council of State not to comply with the Act of Participation, namely, by not assessing exemption applications if they come from industry, I consider as a nullity, as it is simply asking the Minister of Fisheries to do something that is contrary to the law, as I consider it. Derogation, which is governed by law, implies that the Council of State is obliged to assess whether the basis for the exemption is present and so act upon it. It's not just the industry you can grant exemptions for; you can actually give exemptions without necessarily being connected to industry, as the law is designed. The law itself does not distinguish between more than 15 metres and less than 15 metres, except for one condition, namely if the owner of the ship is foreign. What is now proposed is a direct challenge to the legal certainty of the individual exemption applicant, who has the right to have his application processed. The size would, as I consider it, never challenge this legal certainty, and therefore this cannot be interpreted as anything other than a kind request. The starting point for this case is the relative reaction of the SV to Norwegian fisheries. It has previously been claimed from the edge, by the representative Knag Fylkesnes, that the obligation system is to be modified by placing all the trawls in the system in storage and allocating the quotas to the 4500 coastal vessels. It is said that SV does not seem to be satisfied until all the Norwegian jets are gone from the sea. This is an important part of Norwegian fisheries and our value creation, which provides activity, supplies, earnings and not least orders to Norwegian shipyards and value creation to the Norwegian community. Their catches cannot be replaced by the coastal fishing fleet without great challenges, and I do not think it is unlikely that such a change would lead to more of the fish being caught in Faeroese, Russian or Icelandic trawlers. It may almost seem that when the rest of the business community digitises, robotizes and automates, as this industry also does, SV's policy is more a ‘robootisation’ of the industry. But this policy fell. Then we've spent a lot of time discussing what is 0.5 per million of the Norwegian cod quota, and we've discussed that as if the whole fishing industry was swimming its way. The compulsory system, which operates on a derogation, has, as the representative Freiberg said, approx. 28 000 tonnes for one company. That is to say, this derogation granted amounts to 7 per million of the exemptions granted. Of course, we're talking about the Gunnar Klo case, which has been mentioned. The background to this matter, as I understand it, is that a derogation has been granted – in my opinion, a very reasonable derogation – after a concrete assessment of the resource situation locally. Due to limitations in reach, this is necessary to ensure raw material access to this farm on land, which has previously worked for five generations. This is a derogation in line with the objective of the law, namely to increase the profitability and value creation of industry and through this safe settlement and jobs in coastal districts. And how do you do it better than to ensure raw material access to the rural industry in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1864	We have a blue-blue government, which in most areas is busy with liberalisation. Within the framework of the fisheries policy, it is the liberalisation and the free movement of goods that are overarching. This means that the road to larger units and centralisation is short. I understand that SV's representative proposal here is a wish that we should have an overall assessment of this, that there should be no struggle. For there were also some battles in the previous big deal – where the Minister of Fisheries has done something that the Storting has disagreed with, and has had to go back on it. It's unfortunate. For this reason, I think it is a good thing that we now get an overall assessment – not from the whole of the fisheries policy, that would be impossible, but a very important part of him. That is what I understand that the SV's representative proposal would like to address itself. For the Centre Party, activity requirements, nationality requirements and a fishing area fleet are important concerns. We had a round in question here last Wednesday. I do not want to say exactly that there were constructive and factual answers from the Minister for Fisheries at that time. I am busy that the activity requirement is also an important requirement to secure the nationality requirement, and I think there is a connection between the two. And especially in a situation where the nationality requirement is challenged, the activity requirement will be an important protection to have. We tried to challenge the European Minister. She had not heard about the problem. That's what I think is worrying. So we now, fortunately, have an overall assessment of this part of the fisheries policy. I'm glad. There was also some signal on Wednesday about what would happen, a certain expectation, where the Minister for Fisheries indicated what would happen. It reminds me a little bit of when the same Minister for Fisheries was interviewed by NRK's Anders Magnus about mulla Krekar-saka. There was also a lot that was going to happen, and we were going to wait in suspense. But now we're here today, and I expect that a plural note from the Storting to a state council in a minority government will not be seen as something arrogant here has previously been referred to as a nullity. It is clear that when Seafood Norway is out cheering, they are probably a bit happy that Clo got through to having quotas, but this is a matter that has a much larger range, because similar issues should be treated equally. Very few of the considerations that the government has used for foundational purposes differ significantly from the arguments that will be used if the industry is to have quotas or not. That's a lot of the same thing that exists. Difor is important to Klo-saka, and that will affect the fisheries policy in the future. The centre party wants to have a fisheries policy that benefits the whole coast. We are concerned about the high capital demand that has built up in industry by the fact that industry itself has financed structuring for a long time. This has meant that we are now in a situation that makes it very expensive for young people to enter the industry. So the center party wants it to be careful for those who are in the industry and for those who have invested. But I think we need to have an open approach to how we can also for the future ensure that young people have a chance to enter the industry, that they have a deep-rooted industry along the coast, and that the value creation benefits the coastal communities. That's why I think it's an important suggestion. It's important to get a comprehensive review. I should have wished that the proposal that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV had in the setting had been accepted. I see that this is not possible, but I hope that the fisheries policy will in the future be more influenced by big, overarching issues than by governance through instructions and obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1889	The reason why SV promoted this proposal was that, on several occasions following the summer vacation of the Stortinget, the Minister for Fisheries has used powers to implement policies of major importance, without the involvement of the Stortinget, despite the fact that on two occasions a majority in the Stortinget has clearly signaled to the government that no changes should be made to the structure of fisheries until after a comprehensive review of the fisheries policy has been carried out by the Stortinget. This occurred in the handling of the maritime food industry notification and in the handling of the so-called instruction case. Nevertheless, for the past six months, the Minister for Fisheries has made several regulatory changes that may have implications for the quota structure and the overall objectives of the Marine Resource Act and the Participant Act. The first happened on 21 June 2017, when the government decided to significantly raise the quota ceiling from 1 July 2017. The proposal involves 50 p.m. increase in most roofs, leading to a reduction in the number of fishing boats and home ports. The changes have a direct impact on the structure composition of the fishing fleet. The other government did so without the Stortinget having been heard, was to submit, at the hearing, proposals to significantly increase the upper limit of the coastal vessel’s cargo space. The proposal is a substantial change to the legislation, which will lead to a significant increase in the size of coastal vessels compared to today, which in turn will put pressure on further structuring and have consequences for the future of the country's fisheries recipients. The third, the Klo case, which has been mentioned in this Chamber earlier today, occurred after this proposal was written, and was a decision of even greater importance in principle. The Minister for Fisheries authorised Gunnar Klo AS to acquire the majority holding in Fuglöskjær AS, which owns the coastal fishing vessel ‘Morgenstar’. The authorisation is granted by way of derogation from the activity requirements of the Act of Participation. This is the very first time exemption has been granted so that the industry can own coastal fishing vessels. The principle of opening up this access to the coastal fishing fleet should have been submitted to the Stortinget for decision. The justification for the exemption is so clear that it can also provide a precedent that affects the general principles of the participant law. It is serious that we have a fisheries minister who does not listen to the majority of Stortinget – and especially when we have a minority government. Today, I am pleased that a majority of the Biggest puts the foot down for this practice and clearly says that matters of principle are to be determined by the Biggest, and that the matters mentioned are of such a nature. Unfortunately, there was no majority to reverse the raising of the quota ceiling. We think that in SV is a very bad thing. In the future, it will be interesting to see whether the Minister of Fisheries chooses to deal with the Storting when deciding on the size limits of the coastal fleet, or whether he only runs on as if the Stortinget did not exist. It is a dangerous way to go in a democracy – which I would warn against at all costs. Finally, I just want to say that I am pleased that we are finally getting a comprehensive review of structural policy and not a piecely and divided development of Norwegian fisheries policy. It deserves both industry and democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1908	Enterprise policy must be predictable, including in the field of fisheries policy. Predictability is also a key to young people choosing to look at this. After the autumn elections I have been on many trips along the coast, and the conditions of the youth go on again, and not least this with predictability. For the marine nutrition is one of the really big, and one of the most important, industries we have. So, of course, this is a balance between the measures we're taking. Lights in the houses, as the representative Myrseth mentions, I agree is important, and that's something we fight for in many arenas. But fish isn't just about it. It is also about a balance between coastal and sea-going, but also – not least – about how we get enough raw materials to land. This is demanding, and I have a great understanding of that, even by meeting many representatives during this fall. How do you deal with this in the future? In that case, as we have also expressed in a committee comment, that when a derogation is granted, it must definitely be the exception. An exemption is an exception. That's why we're saying that this can't form a precedent, because our concern is that someone is starting to erode the law of participants. That's something we're critical of. For some of the things we're facing, and some of the things that are most problematic when I'm around, raw material is access to the farms. In addition, I believe that the SV's representative was inside, is the wrong medicine here. I think that one must also be more willing to actually talk with consent, not stand on deck and talk with outspokenness at any time. I don't think you can solve the present challenge with that. Because this is complex, and then it requires that also we here in this room have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1917	Fisheries policy is a major and complex area of concern. The Norwegian fishing fleet is diverse, from the largest trawls and purse seiners to the smallest jacks in the coastal fishing fleet. For the Christian People's Party, it is a goal to maintain such a diverse fleet, with large seagoing boats that can retrieve resources from areas that are inaccessible to the smaller ones, and small boats that harvest resources near the coast. Over the years, a comprehensive quota system has also been developed, and we look forward to addressing a major communication on fisheries policy where the proposals of the Eidesen Committee on a forward-looking quota system have a central place. The allocation of quotas must ensure the basis of income from industry and hence continued activity and value creation in Norwegian coastal communities. Structures can contribute to increased profitability and provide a basis for initial investment. At the same time, the aim is to maintain a multiplicity of fleets and to avoid the cost of acquiring a quota boat being so large that many are excluded from fishing. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that, for the future, greater structural action, such as making changes to the coastal fleet quota ceiling and allocation between the cod sector and the pelagic sector for each vessel, should be submitted to the Stortinget for decision. The elected government Stoltenberg II to do when it submitted Report. St. 22 The World's Best Marinemate in the Spring of 2013. The whole of Chapter 10 was devoted to the framework conditions for the fishing fleet, including the quota ceilings in the coastal fleet. I myself got the pleasure of participating in the debate on these questions that were meeting at Stortinget. The temperature was high, the disagreement was high, but Stortinget was given the opportunity to make the decisions that were so important for an overall fishing industry. We believe that the procedure in 2013 was clean and transparent, and we want it as a template for the future treatment of the framework conditions for the fishing fleet. In an exemption case earlier in the autumn, which has received considerable attention both in the trade unions and in the media, the State Council used § 6 third paragraph of the Act of Participation as the basis for the exemption. This is a provision which has not yet been used to grant exemptions to persons or undertakings who will purchase majority ownership in a coastal fishing vessel without complying with the acquisition authorisation requirements. In this case, the requirement to be an active fisherman, which is essential to ensure that Norwegian fishermen residing in coastal municipalities are to have ownership of fishing vessels and associated quotas. We in the Christian People's Party want to make it clear that we do not want such a new practice with regard to exemptions from the purchase of coastal fishing vessels. The reasons given for granting a derogation are, as far as we can see, such that other stakeholders will also be able to make similar arguments in order to apply for a derogation. As a result, precedents are created, and one of the most important principles of Norwegian fisheries legislation, namely the requirement that owners of fishing vessels be active fishermen, is wasted. The Christian People's Party records that a derogation has been granted, but we do not want any such derogation to be granted. We have chosen to be clear in our choice of words on this matter when we included our comments in the committee's position. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that changes in a comprehensive regulatory framework be made as far as possible through comprehensive reviews, so that the legislator has a proper picture of how changes turn out. Regulations and derogations are the responsibility of the government, but we would stress that a situation where important changes in the fisheries policy are implemented through derogations and regulatory changes is not desirable. The Christian People's Party will encourage caution in this area. We have been strong defenders of the important principles of the participant law, the Fish Sales Act and the Sea Resource Act, and we will be in the future as well. The Christian People's Party does not want these laws to be put under pressure, and in the future we will be able to support reversals of changes that the Christian People's Party does not agree with. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that it will be to go too far to add the daily follow-up of the industry to the Storting. That is why we are not going to support the proposal of the minority in this case. However, we would urge that the space for action contained in regulations and exemptions be used wisely by the government at all times. Finally, in my contribution, I have chosen to use my speaking time to deepen the Christian People's Party's positions on central fisheries policy issues and to do our best to see how we can facilitate good processes and tidy rules between the ministry and big business. In this way, we want to contribute to constructive dialogue instead of involving ourselves in a sharp and timely personal rhetoric. In this case, a joint committee requests that a major communication on fisheries policy be submitted as soon as possible, on the basis of the follow-up to the Eidesen Committee. Governments have invited Stortinget to broad agreements in the demanding process of developing a new and forward-looking quota system. We want to contribute to that, and the last thing we need then is a sustained verbal trench war that makes the work of the broad similarities on which an overall fishing industry is so dependent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1937	The general perception of the division of labour between grossing-up and government is that the principal, general issues are promoted for the Storting, while the government takes a continuous view on adjustments and changes within these frameworks. I believe that also the red-green government clearly fixed in St.meld. No 21 for 2006-2007, structural policy for the fishing fleet. There the Red-Greens state that it is the general political issues that need to be resolved by the Storting, while describing the government's task in the following: ‘There is no need to reduce the number of vessels in any group of vessels at all times. The Government will therefore regularly assess and decide on the choice of structural instruments and the groups to be offered at all times on which structural instruments. Furthermore, the government will have to assess the limitations of the structural arrangements for each group of vessels in order to take account of regional and other considerations and the degree of structuring desirable.’;» This government and this state council are running exactly the same principal assessments that the red-green government put in St.meld. No 21 for 2006-2007. In line with this, the Red-Green Government amended the quota ceilings for conventional sea fishing fleets in 2012. In line with this, the red-green size limits for different groups of vessels also changed. The amended loading space limitations for the coastal fleet in 2010 and the cargo space limitations for seismic trawls, cod trawls and shrimp trawls in 2011 – without involving the Stortinget. A majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party have comments on the so-called Gunnar Klo case in the committee position. They ask the Council of State not to grant further exemptions to the coastal fleet. They also claim that the Gunnar Klo case should have been sent to the hearing and submitted to the Stortinget. I have a little bit of difficulty getting to grips with what is actually in the majority comment. At least it's weird. Thus, the law allows the Ministry to grant such a derogation — as has been done on a number of occasions under previous governments. In fact, the conditions for exemption are very strict, and there is no automatic rule that the exemptions are granted even if the applications are very good. But the Gunnar Klo case is special, and the exemption decision is clearly within the powers that Stortinget has unanimously given to the government. If the coastal fleet is to be excluded from this derogation, as this majority now asks the Council of State to do, this would mean that the legislation is partially set aside. It's very special. In any case, it would obviously be contrary to the general distribution of responsibilities between the magnificence and government if such individual cases were to be presented to the Stortinge. The Administrative Act does not propose that this type of individual decision, such as the Gunnar Klos exemption, be the subject of a hearing. To the mandate of the Quota Committee: the mandate of the Eiden Committee was to look at the quota system and the resource rate question. With the quota system, I mean the system of permits for fishing and quota allocation to vessels and the system of structural quotas. The quota system is a very important part of Norwegian fisheries policy, but the fisheries policy covers much, much more. That is why I am pleased that the head of the nutrition committee says that at least there should be no comprehensive notification of a comprehensive fisheries policy, but of what is naturally affected by the quota system. That's why I've said in a number of contexts that this should be treated in a broad and good way. There are different areas within the Eiden Committee's setting that are very important individually, but in order to ensure predictability of the industry for a long time in the future, it is also important that all of these elements in the Eiden Committee's setting are treated in a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1959	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1964	I hear the Minister thinks it's a strange majority comment, which he's a little uncertain about how he's going to deal with, but at least I'm going to try to talk to the Minister once again when you can expect to get a case to the Stortinget. You have shown several times that you have mentioned that there was going to be a case in 2016 – that is one year ago. It was also a consultation period in April – I guess – it was half a year ago. Is that another six months? Is that another year? When will you get a case to the Stortinget, and do you want it to come as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1969	I noticed that Stortinget asked for such a message to be received as soon as possible, and I also said that it would come as soon as possible. As soon as you can, I'll present a big message to the Stortinge that goes into the Eiden committee's setting. However, on the basis of the proposal under consideration – I believe it has a majority – it will also cover other areas. To present a big message in 2016 when the Eidesen Committee's setting was available in December 2016 – yes, you work hard in my department, but that they were to generate a big deal based on the Eidesen Committee's setting during the summer 2016 season, was probably short of time, but as soon as possible. As I said earlier today, you have to take the goal of producing an overall big business message with other factors in itself during 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1976	I guess that's not exactly what was said, but leave it alone. I have one more question, and this goes on: As I said before, it is in the preparatory work of the participant law, where the exemption from the activity requirement is mentioned: only in relation to the freshwater trawler fleet and other parts of the sea fishing fleet. Can you give a reason for what that means?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1985	I have seen this claim, but I want to quote a small part of the pre-worker – you have to read a larger part of the pre-worker: ‘However, if this requirement would prove to be unfortunate in some cases, a derogation could be granted in accordance with the first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 6 for ships across the border.’ There's also more in the preliminary work, and the red-green government actually says that you don't isolate it in any way. When you talk about the preparations and are back in 1998, there were assumptions underlying them in 1998. A state council and a government that sits 19 years later, of course, makes its own assessments. But it is the main intention of Section 6 that is crucial, so it is the considerations and the situation in the individual local and regional areas that determine whether the Council of State can grant this type of derogation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e1997	I hope the Council of State doesn't take my word that this review will only be limited to the Eiden selection. What I said was that there should not be all the possible aspects of the fisheries policy, but there are many adjacent problem options that I think belong to home in such a big message. But my question is: Clo-saka is decided in the form of a single decision, which I have understood is complained about. What time can we expect a decision in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2004	I have received a number of complaints and anchors on this, from both the Coastal Fishery Team, the Fiskarlag, the Fishing Boat and the Pelagic Association. I have this to assess now. First of all, I have to assess whether all of these have the right to complain in this case, which I am reasonably sure they have, perhaps outside the Pelagic Association. Then the process is further to assess whether this is outside the authority and the laws that I have. I now have this assessment. This is complicated in relation to Norwegian administrative law and the law, but I expect that we will get this in place in a reasonable time, so that everyone gets an answer. In case – positive or negative – there are different directions for dealing with this type of complaint and other.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2011	Usually when there are complaints about individual decisions, the answer to the councils is that one is reluctant to comment on the matter because one has a complaint for treatment. One might say a lot about the Minister for Fisheries in this matter, but he has not been restrained by comments. Is it correctly understood if I have understood the Council of State so that he has already decided what should be the outcome of this complaint?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2018	No, it would be completely unprofessional. I have received a number of complaints and appeals on this, and they are processed. First of all, I have spent some time assessing whether they have a right to complain, which I have to do. My conclusion is enough that I am reasonably sure that at least most of these people have the right to complain. Then it is the other legal assessments that are now being carried out, whether what is contained in these complaints, that must therefore be assessed. It's sharp jus, and it would be totally unprofessional to fix anything. But the decision of 6 October is firm until something else has arrived on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2025	The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has been consulted to increase the size of the coastal fishing fleet but has not yet concluded. Is the Minister for Fisheries going to allow a larger coastal fishing fleet, or will he listen to the Storting and add this decision to the Stortinge in connection with the quota structure notification? Another question: What are the consequences of the clear view of the majority of population in the Klo case?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2033	I expect the representative to think about the load compartment restriction, which has been out at the hearing. I am now going through all the hearing opinions. There were two models that were launched during the hearing. One thing was to increase the number of cubics, the other to make adjustments within the regulation, so that one is clear and clear that the cargo capacity you have is more focused on fish and not on any other type of volume that takes up the load capacity. With regard to the Klo case, I have been very clear about it too: this is an exception. Some were afraid that there would be a number of such applications — I have received one application in addition. I have said no to that, because it was not comparable at all. And I repeat again: the issue of toilets is in itself very special and fully meets the criteria that a unanimous collapse has laid down that the government and the Council of State can make this kind of exception.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2040	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2047	The Government of Fisheries Minister Sandberg has structured, has explored more structuring, has increased the quota base per vessel and wishes to further increase the quota base on each vessel. First of all, this policy is causing the government to rage against the communities and fishing forces that have lived by fishing for all their time, and secondly, the quality of the fish landed is deteriorating. There's talk of a lack of raw material, and it's in a period when the quotas for cod are historically high. Why is that so? Yes, because there are fewer and fewer vessels involved in fishing. The vessels involved are larger than ever, and due to large quantities in each sea weather, the fish are not treated properly. It is not blush, it is not veiled, it has many times so low quality that fish buyers who supply fish for best-paying use have to reject deliveries. The Minister of Fisheries, as well as his predecessors, has made every effort to increase the quantity of quota per vessel, thus leading a policy against Norwegian political objectives since 1970, that the most possible of the everlasting resources of the Norwegian people, the fish, are sold to the restaurant market and highly paying segments of consumers. When many talk about structuring, think of the many reports that have been prepared by expert samples. Here is the mention of the Tveterås Committee, the Eidesen Committee and the Eligibility Commission. However, this obscures the real situation. The structure is continuous in the introduction of negotiable allowances and concessions in contravention of the adopted laws of the Storting. There is a system of zero political governance, and it is the market and capital that are at stake. Another lock that leads to structuring is that the Minister of Fisheries has removed county bonds in Finnmark, which has led to a stream of vessels out of the county. This has led to serious consequences for many fishing waters, as shown by the statistics — and also the sudden concern of the Council of State for coastal shipping out of the municipality of Øksnes, which led to fish buyers ending up as 100 pst. vessel owner. It seems that the Council of State is completely without a window of sight as to what is leading the municipalities that have grown into the disaster in which they have landed, and as a result of which the Council of State, both in the Norwegian Fisheries Team and in the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team, had to take advantage of a derogation which has not previously been granted to the coastal fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2060	It was the representative from the Right who made me think that I should take the floor, because the representative owes the Workers' Party for the uncertainty that arose about the obligation system. What created uncertainty was, of course, the Minister of Fisheries, and therefore the simple, but perhaps not wise, desire to scrape a system rather than improve it, which is an important prerequisite for the derogation for cod trawls. The obligation system is important in terms of the relationship between sea and land, and it will help create activity throughout the year. The obligation system is important for North Norway. That is why there was also such a strong response to the proposal. So to the representative who owes the Workers' Party for the uncertainty, I just have to say that I agree that the Workers' Party's opinions are important, but in this case it was the people along the coast who mostly put their feet down. The working party agreed with those who did, but that was what caused the case to be dropped. I can only show that the matter had been dealt with as it should here in Stortinget, so the Workers' Party had its own proposal on how to improve the system. So I hope we get this case back to Stortinget, and maybe it's the way the Workers' Party is going to have to take the initiative for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2067	I have never claimed that it was the fault of the Workers' Party that the obligation message was postponed. What I've said is that we all have a responsibility to ensure predictability and safety in the industry, and it's not going to be safer to say that you don't know how to do it. Now we have had a rather tough round of relatively small issues in the fisheries policy. This is a round that has given clear fronts. However, when one listens to the submissions, it is difficult to hear what is really the political message for the future of the fishing industry – besides that some are more concerned with small boats, while some may also be occupied with larger boats, and most are busy with both. But from here on out there there is a rather serious responsibility on us in this Chamber, and it is that we now have to look beyond the hard rhetoric that has been in this debate, and realize that it is not viable that we do not find a long-term solution also to the quota system that can stand independent of the changing political majority in this Chamber. This means that we need to strike a balance between the different parts of the fishing industry that allow us to have a large number of coastal fishing fleets, as we have today – it is, in practice, 2000 vessels within the quota system for cod and 2 500 vessels in the open group, together with more than 4000 vessels in the smaller part of the fleet. It'll be a serious responsibility. At least on the Right, as the Minister for Fisheries, we are prepared to ensure that there is a long-term and broad compromise that provides stability for the industry, and that it is opening up to make the reasonable adjustments that need to be made, to ensure that this also in the future becomes both a growth industry and an industry with a high level of profitability. One of the challenges, when we hear the debate here today, is to try to balance what you think the quota price has become too high, and that there is a problem for the recruitment of the industry. At the same time, there is no better way to ensure that fishing companies or fishermen go bankrupt than by starting to do something about the quota value they actually have, or by introducing a lottery to manage the quota allocation, which may seem to be one of the alternatives if you look at what the minority says in some investigations. For my part, at least in the future – just as the representative Reiten pointed out – I want to help us get a constructive discussion about how we lay the foundation for the future value creation in this industry, and that it will be a nourishment for the peoples of the coast, with Norwegian ownership, as we all agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2080	Let me just start by saying that the Workers' Party will contribute most to a constructive discussion on the important marine resources and how to make the best use of them for the people of both the nation and the coast. We have a very good tradition for that in the Workers' Party. One could almost have turned the question around in the last post, from the representative Tom-Christen Nilsen, but I'm not going to do that. I'm going to underline – point 1: most of the fisheries discussions that are going on either in this room now or on the outside of this room, suggest that we need a big message, and that we need it quickly, just to get a good discussion and see if it is possible to land a common understanding of what is the challenge in the future. For the Workers' Party, it's very clear what we're putting very high. It is the Act on Participation and the Law on Marine Resources. What we're really saying in the proposal that doesn't get a majority today is that the overall considerations of the participant law and the marine resource law don't want to change. This also applies to how a new wholesale message would have an impact on it. So there's no doubt about what the Workers' Party wants. But I'm also a little surprised that the Storting doesn't actually establish that until we get a big message on the table, that premise will be fixed. It would have been a wise approach to creating predictability and security in an industry that needs it. So to the note on Klo: We have not taken back any powers or entered into discussions with the Minister for Fisheries. We have just established that our reading of the processors is not such that it opens up for the industry to own the coastal fishing fleet. So the Council of State says that the preparatory work is done back in 1998. Yeah, it's been a long time, so you might be able to interpret it quite freely now? No, someone can't. But we're very clear that opening up the industry to own the coastal fishing fleet, we're sceptical about it. That's what we're saying in that comment, and that's why we're very clear at the end of the comment, which is a majority remark. I hope that the Council of State does not use this majority comment as the representative Nilsen actually saw it – as a nullity. It is a majority comment, it stands firm, and I hope that the Minister for Fisheries can come up here with a brief conclusion and confirm that he will follow that majority comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2091	I share the wish that we should achieve a broad consensus on fisheries policy, or at least a broadest possible consensus over time. If we are to achieve that, I believe it is important that the Minister of Fisheries should take note of the words of the Christian People's Party's representative, whom I perceive to be encouraging a certain degree of prudence in the use of the space of action until the review is initiated. So it's like when we discuss Klo-saka, there's no absolute limit to where the Greatness's task ends, and where the government's boundary begins. That is part of the political debate. Even if the law formally confers the right of waiver to the Council of State, it does not prevent the Storting from having any opinion on matters that one think are important, and as one wishes to present. There's not more than a couple of hours ago, or maybe an hour ago, we discussed a government budget where a joint committee told the Veterinary Institute to give money to Norecopa. It is also not a formal task of Stortinget, but it was a matter of Stortinget's opinion was important. If we're going to get this broad unity, I think it's a bad idea to refer to a plural comment as a nullity. I'm glad that the Council of State has not used that word, because I think it's a wrong starting point for the process we're about to have. I also mean that the obligation case, on which we have had a round, shows how wrong it can be if one tries to run through a big case with the least possible multiple in Stortinget. Then one suddenly wakes up one day, and then one has no multiple and ends up drawing things. Norwegian fishing industry is on the increase. Norwegian fishing industry hastens that we have tough discussions with clear points of view, that we are brewing them, but that we constantly have an innate willingness to find some compromises that can stand over time. I would like to signal that the Center Party will contribute to it in the future, but this has led to the fact that not all of the Central Party players have met that we have not understood the case. Well, we've understood the case, we're just dissenting, and then we'll have to discuss it from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2104	Let's say that Norwegian fisheries policy has been in transition at all times. Since we got our first fisheries minister in 1946, Reidar Carlsen, there has been a change of pace. In the first case our first fisheries minister, from the Workers' Party, went to Stortinget with – St.meld. No 10 for 1946–47, I think it was – was the only thing Carlsen wanted at the time, to bring the Stortinget to reduce the number of fishermen from 115,000 to 70,000. It could have been interesting to see the debate at that time. Norwegian fisheries policy, resource management and management in general are the best in the world. The policy of structuring that has gone on for decades, with different governments, has been a success. We see that today. But that doesn't mean that all structuring has to stop. That is why I think it is still a potential for improving Norwegian fisheries policy in the future. When we talk about the Eidesen Committee, I also said earlier today that it is comprehensive, because there are heavy issues in the Eidesen Committee: Only this with a time limit for allowances – to discuss it alone is a big issue. Or the resource interest question – a big deal alone. Renting allowances – a big deal alone. Structure below 11 meters has always been a debate. And all of these extra-quota arrangements. That is why I am pleased that both the Labour Party and the Central Party are now signaling, together with the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government Parties, that we should have a constructive dialogue on this. This cannot be done by urgent work. This must be done in close dialogue with industry in all possible ways, because this is not easy. I have recorded what is said, and I am very pleased with the remark and the reference that the Christian People's Party representative had here from the pulpit. I just have to state immediately that I am going to use – and have used – all the powers and opportunities I have, wisely. It is up to every government, and I think I have actually done so in every context. Then you can disagree. I am also pleased that the Christian People's Party affirms that it would be too far to add the daily follow-up of the industry to the Storting. Something happens from day to day. As the Council of State in the field of fisheries and aquaculture, it is not possible to sit still when applications are received. Then it is an obligation of a State Council to deal with these applications as soon as possible. Let me just stop saying that there are many strategies. Full-year jobs, whole fish on land, raw material strategy and profitability in the marine food industry are most important to put in place future fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2137	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2153	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2162	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation with the budget and for a good effort with the budget setting. Security in everyday life and a secure society is a shared responsibility. The Labour Party will both prevent and fight crime. Breakers must be solved quickly, and offenders must be punished and rehabilitated. Victims of serious crime and relatives shall be preserved. Judicial policy needs to facilitate better prevention, clarification, faster response, more effective rehabilitation. The Labour Party will pursue a judicial policy that is tough on revenants and organised criminals, and we will have good, effective provision of rehabilitation. The working party has high ambitions for the justice sector, to increase preparedness for a safer Norway. In our alternative state budget, the special police districts are being strengthened. We propose to strengthen the police districts by 300 million. kr more, in addition to the agreement. We are strengthening civil protection, criminal services and courts. We have people most of their legal certainty as a clear priority. I would like to congratulate the country on the fact that the government is finally putting money on the table to put in the emergency room and helicopter. I'm glad. Nevertheless, I must point out that it is the ordinary police who are responsible for the most important preparedness. It was prepared by the Gjørv Commission, and unfortunately there is nothing that will be resolved with the conciliation we have for treatment here today. Because after the conciliation, which gives a strengthening to the police special body and ear-marked funds to police students, the sum going to the police for 2018 is 1,054 million. kr. Of this, 762.8 million is going to be. kr to the emergency centre and helicopter, 259,9 million. kr for wage and price growth, and 106.3 million. kr is being cut, mainly in the ABE reform. This means that when all the efforts of the police and prosecution authorities are taken into account, the bill goes negatively by 74.6 million. When the funds for the ABE cut, wage and price increases and investment to the Emergency Response Centre have been deducted. One should actually be a little creative if one – with that rear carpet – claims that this budget is a strengthening of the police districts, because unfortunately it is not. Tomorrow's online crime scene will be particularly demanding. We're not well enough equipped to meet this, and what I hear out there among those added to the police and from trustees worries me. We have a lot of work to do here. In the last few days, there has been a clear rise in the lack of cryptography skills, which will be very serious for the security of the kingdom if you don't start offensive work as soon as possible. Online crime is an increasing problem when it comes to fraud and fraud, but especially when we talk about online abuse and outlawed sharing of images and videos. Here I think the Minister of Justice and the Government are too passive. The Labour Party believes that the 2018 budget would have a much larger scope for action, also in order to have provided new and different competences in addition to police officers. It was surprising – and we must be able to say that it was petty – by the government to propose a cut to the legal aid measures, and it was good that the Christian People's Party and the Left Press put in place several of the funds for these. What's unfortunate is that we couldn't do it with everyone. There is still today a proposal to cut the legal aid for crisis centres, which one should offer. I'm wondering how you can defend it. Much good is being done in the Norwegian justice sector, but there are also many major challenges. The situation in Norwegian criminal justice is serious. The police in Norway are starving, they are more aggressive and dangerous than before, and it's not a good way to fight new crime. The situation in the courts is demanding. For years now, the courts are trying to resolve conflicts that are common to ordinary people, the queues are increasing, and that is not the way we can do it. And the agreement, which is going to go through today, unfortunately doesn't dissolve in it either. Let me stress that those who work in the police, in criminal services, in the fire and rescue department and in the entire justice sector do an incredibly good job, but in 2018 many of these will do it within quite such a narrow framework. The Labour Party had wished for a substantial strengthening of the police districts, by the courts, of the criminal justice system. Unfortunately, we are going to vote for it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2183	Would the representative like to comment on his proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2188	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2193	The representative, Mr Lagen Wagslid, has then drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2198	The day had come again, the day when the Storting will distribute almost 37 billion. kr to important items to make our country safe and secure. What we know about this day is that unfortunately we hear a lot negative. Even in an area referred to as the absolute budget winner, we will hear that it is not granted enough. Budgetary debates in the field of justice often tend to become a competition for who is spreading with most tax millions. It's good in a field that's very expensive. We're going to hear a debate that is marked by a parallel existence – I'm not going to say good to evil, but at least the good to the less good. Then it might be nice to remember that what we're really discussing if we look at the different budgets up against each other is a difference of plus/minus 0.5 pst. 0.5 pst. is what is really the real disagreement about the use of money in the field of justice. It may be good to have in mind when you hear this debate. I could spend a lot of time talking about money – about who has granted the most, etc. What I am most concerned about are the results, and there will never be a proper budgetary round without a good estimate of what results have actually been delivered in this period and in the previous one. We have received well over 2,000 new police posts. We're modernizing the police force. We get better research, better equipment, and new cars roll out. Preparedness in Norway has been greatly improved. All the points in the Gjørv Commission report have now been followed up. The emergency team is strong, the PST is strong, the police are finally getting new helicopters, and there's a new emergency center that can actually be built and that can actually do the job. We have cleared up an unclear code of cooperation between the Defence and the police. We never know when the next crisis occurs, but what we can say is 100 pst. Sure, we're better rusted this time than we were last time. Now we're cleaning up criminal custody, after years of settlement cows. They're now gone. We're returning record criminal foreigners to acquittal in our home country. The number of squamous cell surpluses has been significantly reduced, prisons are being cleaned up, and new construction is being made. Changes like this take time, and I'm not going to boast that we're done in any way. It should be up to the opposition to make this a debate where there will be a lot of black paint. It'll be an uninteresting debate soon, I think. I'm going to try to contribute from the position by also being a little critical and looking at some fields that might need a little extra attention in the future. I think that's fair and important. Take, for example: Courts. It is a challenge that the length of proceedings in some courts has increased. Civilizing law is one example. Fortunately, we've moved 5 million. kr in the agreement and another 10 mill. in the committee procedure to strengthen the situation of employees in the courts. I think we'll have to do more of that in the time to come. We've also been keeping an eye on, and we're going to keep an eye on, the development of criminal justice. There are reports of violence and threats and the lack of psychologists. There might be parts of this image that are misleading, but we're still going to keep an eye on it. Nor is it possible to undermine the fact that it is the bulk of the population who have actually caused some of the problems by blocking absolutely necessary changes that could free resources. All in all, the arrows on the justice field point in the right direction. It's not just a statement that I'm hanging around with. If you look at measurements of who has the greatest credibility in justice policy, it is the Right Party and the Advance Party who are at the top. It will also be supported if we look at budgetary developments in recent years. In 2013, we had a 25-billion-dollar justice budget. kr. Today, a budget of nearly 37 billion is being presented. kr, 12 br. kr more – an increase that is quite formidable. Then I understand that it may be difficult to be an opposition politician in this field, but it has undoubtedly made our country safer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2221	In the field of justice, the Progress Party has good cooperation with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. We have been moving in the same direction for several years, and this year too we have made a good budget for justice even better. Together, these four parties have been involved in forming a new justice policy that puts the victim in the centre. Civil cooperation contributes to the promise of law, order and the fight against child abuse. We have been in the government to establish over 300 new police posts annually for four years. In total, the government will now take care of approx. 1,300 more policemen than we had in 2013 when we took over. Combined with almost 100 new positions in the Public Prosecutor's Office, we have been involved in a massive police effort during this government period. No one can afford that. Also in 2018 we strengthen the police districts in the budget. 300 million. In exceptional means, police districts will continue to be earmarked and police districts’ operational budgets will be strengthened by an additional 100 million. kr. This effort will provide a high level of material and personnel acquisition. In addition, more than 120 million are granted. kr to carry out exceptional recruitments of police students. We see that the police districts have faced challenges, including: the provision of funds to central ICT systems. Now the government is making sure that the police districts get more free money. This is absolutely a very important part of this budget. Under the red-green government there were 1 200 people. We have agreed to ensure that the reconciliation queue has now been removed. This means that fewer victims face the criminal in the street, and much more people get better rehabilitation. Where the red-green government escaped earlier, we are now making sure that we build new prisons and new prisons. The reconciliation agreement with the Netherlands was necessary as a result of a decline in Norwegian prison expansion over several years. However, we have been very clear, even in the Progress Party, that the Netherlands agreement is only a temporary measure until we have built up enough disposal sites in Norway. We have already set up 130 new prison sites in Norway, and in addition, with this budget we are now presenting for 2018, starting with 300 new places in Agder. Furthermore, the government parties, in close cooperation with, among others, The Christian People’s Party (Christian People’s Party) has been implemented to ensure that a sufficient number of prison sites will be in place by 2020, as part of the entire package related to the Netherlands Agreement. This is absolutely necessary to ensure the removal of the restitution queue and the provision of adequate disposal facilities. One third of the prisoners in Norwegian prisons are foreign criminals, while a total of 80 pst. of those in prison in the Netherlands, foreign nationals. I see no problem with these zones in the Netherlands until we make sure to build enough prisons in Norway. The alternative to the Netherlands as of today is a new queue, and nobody wants it. The Courts have received the necessary reinforcement through this budgetary procedure. It has been important for the Progress Party to further strengthen the courts at the hearing of the Judicial Committee. I am pleased with what we have done in the budgetary agreement – all four parties. I am pleased that the budget negotiations have led to another 15 million. to the courts. This represents more than ten judgments, which will have a major impact on the length of proceedings in a number of courts. In recent years, we have been constantly working to improve legal certainty in Norway. We have started work on the introduction of audio and video recordings in all courts – a trial project has already been launched in Tromsø. In the period of government of the Progress Party, an Institute of Human Rights has also been set up, and in close cooperation with the Christian People's Party, we have now had to have a jury/joint court in the law of the law of the law of the law, so that those who get a sentence in criminal matters know why they were convicted. This has been a weakness in the Norwegian judicial system for several years and has now been cleared up. Victims are also entitled to legal certainty. That is why I am pleased that in this period we have now left behind, we have lifted the limitation period for killing and serious assault. We have also established a cold case group for old criminal cases that have not been resolved, so that we can ensure that we can hopefully solve them as well. This is once again a budget with victims in focus, a budget that strengthens the police, that strengthens the criminal justice system, that strengthens victim care, and that strengthens the courts. So it's quite correct, as has been pointed out, that there are some demands for efficiency in such a system. Of course, an area that gets close to 40 billion. kr of taxpayers, are also entitled to make good and effective use of the resources. It was just supposed to be missing. But what we are now providing through the budgetary agreement, which we are going to adopt today, is a good budget for justice that will put the victim in the centre, and that will ensure that the justice sector that we started four years ago continues to be heavily invested.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2246	The annual government budget is a clear expression of how government parties want to prioritise. A government budget is also, like other policies, surrounded by a lot of rhetoric and winning sentences. That's also the case this year. During the debate, we will hear a lot from the government parties that there has never been a greater commitment to the police – as we have already heard – and criminal care will be praised with the absence of rescue cows and prison facilities. Fortunately, we have a public debate that helps to nuance reality. The alternative budgets drawn up each year by the opposition are also a clear expression of how the parties at Stortinget want to prioritise. For the Central Party, it is absolutely essential that we have a balanced justice sector, which ensures the population, and which is accessible to all citizens, wherever they live. That is why we are critical of the fact that the government relies most of its policy on centralising as much as possible and that through the ABE reform has carried out dramatic cuts over several years that go beyond jobs and service production within, among other things. police, courts and criminal justice. In the Central Party, we are in favour of strengthening the entire criminal chain. In the case of courts, we are particularly concerned with strengthening both small and large courts and that digitisation must apply to all courts in order to gain full benefit. The money we spend in criminal justice is to be used in Norway, not the Netherlands. We have also seen over several years cut off legal aid and assistance to the weakest in our society, among others. once the government has cut the absence allowance, is not willing to adjust the salary rate or conclude negotiating rights agreements and has even proposed violent cuts in the voluntary sector of justice, which have fortunately been withdrawn from the budgetary agreement. The central party proposes an increase in the appropriations of non-governmental organisations in the justice sector. We want to increase the absence allowance for lawyers and experts, which we believe is particularly important for equal opportunities for counsel in the districts, and we think it is time to give lawyers the right to negotiate. The biggest bet we're making in the Center Party is on the local police. We'll give 500 million. more than the settlement partners in the free resources of the police districts. After the police reform, there is now a great need for investment in all police districts. It is required, inter alia, to: funds for the recruitment of police officers, police lawyers and civil competences, new equipment and ICT upgrades. The government itself sees the need, but they have not spent enough money. We have constantly criticised the police reform, which is centralising and anti-district, and which means that the police are being distanced from communities all over Norway. Now the reform becomes a fact, but the government has launched the biggest police reform in history without following up with sufficient funds or positions. I've noticed the post for Per Fronth, who's the main defense officer in the South-East police district. He wrote at the Police Forum on December 2. The title was «When we are too few», and he describes a demanding everyday life with few patrols at work and little opportunity to ask for assistance in situations that require it. He writes: ‘And in your head, you hear the voice of a politician who says, ‘Never has there been so much effort on the police — an increasing number of people become employed’. And you wonder where these people have gone." We were many who got a bit of a shock when the first proposal for a budget came and there was not one penny to employ newly trained policemen in 2018. Fortunately, the budget agreement contained 131 million. kr for this, but it must be said to be a moderate relief, for that sum is much less than previous years. In addition, almost all funds allocated to the police districts are now earmarked. So there's no money in the police budgets to do their own priorities, as the government says they have to do. Despite the growth and growth of police budgets, police districts over several years have experienced a negative economic space for action. In practice, police districts may have to leave jobs open to save money, as we have seen in both 2016 and 2017. In the budget agreement, the settlement parties have committed reduced appropriations to the police who cut overtime. For the Central Party, it seems quite unrealistic to put in such a cut when the police are already lacking staff, and those who are at work need to hurry when needed. Finally, I would like to address the proposals put forward by the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2281	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2286	Hello, President – excuse me, ‘hei’ may not be a parliamentary expression. Good President!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2292	That's good!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2297	It has been interesting to get acquainted with the justice work at Stortinget. I originally thought we might get a debate about what would create security and limit crime, and look at knowledge and premises, but with the Progress Party at the head, the government has probably been most concerned that the most important thing has been to show a so-called 'tough on crime' policy. We have heard a number of sunny stories here, but both prisoners and employees, including employee organisations in the justice sector, have at least drawn a completely different picture for me. In the opinion of the Swedish authorities, the government has been too tough in the gulf of criminal policy. The 'Tough on crime' policy works in our view against its purpose. What are they adding up to? Well, they say it's going to be worse to be in prison. It has to be cut in the operating costs of prisons, there has to be a lower level of physical compensation, and fewer employees also mean more prisoners per employee. The government fully knows that smaller staff means more use of coercive substances, containment and isolation, more frustration among prisoners and thus more violence. Still, it was cut. The government will also make it more difficult to adapt to a life of freedom. Penalties are not to count on special help to adapt to a new life, because they are also cut into those schemes. There is less money for rehabilitation programmes, such as rushing and nurturing, less money for after-sales protection, and still many zones abroad, where the possibility of maintaining closeness to their own professional and social environment is poorer. SV is pleased that the Left supports the SV, the Workers’ Party and the Centre’s proposal to liquidate the prison in the Netherlands. It's time, we hope we can stop this as soon as possible. This tough-on-crime policy also affects the area of legal security. The government has a policy that means that ordinary people in need of legal assistance will receive less support in the future. Originally, there should be less free legal aid both to organizations and to lawyers, and it expresses to me an ideological direction that I strongly oppose. The government is fully aware that the type of cut weakens fundamental legal certainty. Nevertheless, this was proposed. In the area of refugee and asylum policy, which is part of this area too, if not directly linked to our budget area, the 'tough on crime' policy is expressed as deterring poor refugees from coming to Europe. The humanitarian contribution to rescue boat refugees in the Mediterranean is to be cut. Guns and penalty frames are not part of our budget, but just to mention enough an illustration of «tough on crime»: the government wants permanent weapons from the police. They also want to extend the maximum penalties to 26 years – ‘tough on crime’ all. SV will take responsibility for justice policy, but we do not want it to be based on popular and popular ideas about how to deal with crime. It must be based on knowledge. We want to give more money to criminal services, because we know that this leads to better rehabilitation. We want more money for post-protection, because it makes getting back to a life of freedom get better. We want to give more legal aid, because it will strengthen justice among people, and it should not be that non-financing of the justice sector should make it the economic differences between people who govern to what extent you get basic legal certainty. Finally, I would like to address the SV's proposal, no. 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2316	The representative Petter Eide has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2321	Justice policy is the backbone of a modern legal state, and the resolution of crimes is one of the most important tasks of the state. Crime creates insecurity and distrust in society. In the Left, we believe that the best way to fight crime is to prevent it. Therefore, justice policy is also linked to child and child rearing, kindergarten and school, good teachers and a solid safety net for children that the Left has created together with the government and the Christian People's Party. The police have great confidence in the population. They have this confidence because the population feels safe when the police are both known, visible and available. I am therefore pleased that more resources are now being allocated to the police. For the Left, an important requirement in the negotiations on police reform was a police force that is there when you need it and that takes you seriously. We believe that the police reform makes the police better able to do the tasks that we expect a modern police force to do. It has been important for us to give priority to family violence and issues relating to children. Through the police reform, more resources will be targeted at research and prevention in these kinds of cases. In this context, it is important that children who experience difficult things are met in a good way. That's why we're very pleased that there are now children's houses in Sogn and Fjordane. Children must be taken seriously and met by skilled professionals. When we strengthen the police, it is important that we also ensure that the courts have sufficient resources to carry out their social mission. We have received statements of concern from the courts that we take seriously, and we are therefore providing for a strengthening. Long-term proceedings weaken the trust in the judicial system and the capacity of society to resolve conflicts, and it is therefore important to raise the issue before the courts. Over several years, we have had an offensive commitment to the implementation of punishment, which has resulted in the disappearance of the settlement queues in practice. That's left very pleased with. However, it is now important that we take a closer look at the quality of the compensation offer. We are told that conditions in prison are more demanding than before. That is why I am pleased that the Left has given the majority of the government the opportunity to look at the activities and rehabilitation of the prisoners, as well as the development of the number of serious incidents, such as violence and threats. This will follow up on the left in the next one. It is important in order to ensure good rehabilitation and safe working conditions for people in criminal care. Being right is not the same thing as getting right. You have to know about justice and have resources to fight for that right. Not everyone has it. That is why it was vital for the Left to correct the cuts and strengthen the subsidies for legal aid to the most vulnerable – those who are worn out, those who are used to meeting closed doors, and who need help to get a roof over their heads, enough food or necessary health care. That is why we strengthen the Street Lawyer, Legal Advice for Women, Jussbuss, Jussvermittelingen etc. We have also secured funds for the further development of Barna's Lawyer and Gata's Economist. Children’s Lawyers help children and young people under the age of 25 and work to reach vulnerable children and young people. The street economist gives free economic advice to people who have or have had a drug problem. A society is measured by how we take care of our weakest, and this entry in the budget is a visible proof of that. That is why this was most important to the Left. For the same reason, we have also looked at the remuneration for lawyers, that it should be attached, and we look forward to the government looking into this. A society is also measured by how we take care of our animals, and our commitment to animal law has resulted in animal crime being taken seriously. When a cat is brought to the vet with 20 air vents in the stomach, it must have consequences for someone. That is why I am pleased that the Left has secured funds for two new units, in Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane and in Uppland and Hedmark. From the past, both Eastfold, Rogaland and Trondelag have their own units, and together we have five regions with animal police in the country. As part of the follow-up to the Gjørv Commission report, a Emergency Response Centre shall be established on Taraldrud. The local population is concerned about the consequences such a centre will have, and it is a concern I fully understand. I am therefore pleased that the government must now ensure that residents and neighbours are involved in the work of adequate noise abatement measures. It's been my election vow to the locals, and I'm glad we're delivering on it. Following the consent of Stortinget, the government entered into an agreement in 2015 to rent properties in the Netherlands. The left voted against, because we disagreed in principle that the settlement of the Norwegian penalty should take place abroad. In particular, we were concerned about the consequences for rehabilitation, as the distance from relatives in Norway is growing and more isolated from the rest of society. Now that we see that there are job vacancies in Norway, and more prisons are under construction, there is no reason to continue the agreement. That is why I would like to address the loose proposal that I have put forward, and in line with talks with the government parties, and in line with the budgetary agreement, I would ask that it be transmitted. I look forward to the Minister of Justice responding to such a transmission. Finally, the left has strengthened the free advice and guidance service by 2 million. kr. Online infringements seem to be an increasing problem, and then you can get help on just a few things.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2346	The representative Abid Q. Raja has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2351	I have to admit that I am not able to get along as much in my post as the representative Raja, because it was impressive. I would like to thank the Committee for its good work. The Christian People's Party is not in the committee, but we are very concerned and satisfied with the breakthrough that we have achieved through the conciliation. Security in everyday life may be the most important task we have as politicians. Ensuring that the inhabitants are safe is the most important thing. We have the approach that we think it's happening through prevention. That is why I have often said in the debate on justice that much of the most important work of this committee takes place in other committees. I think that's an important part to have with you when you're discussing justice policy. The starting point for the debate is the government's proposal for a government budget. There was a lot of good – money for emergency services, for helicopters, free money for the police, etc. There were many important measures. But when the Christian People's Party went into the work, we thought it was also necessary to secure funds for the recruitment of the 2018 coal in the police. The base crew is incredibly important. It allows the more visible police, who are to have the important investigations, to solve the important issues, to be present when people are troubled. The target of two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants was important. That's why we're very pleased that, together with the government parties and the Left, we haven't found as much money as we should initially have, but through the negotiations we've shown that the 131 million. kr could be sufficient to ensure employment. It's in addition to the free resources that are already there. So we're happy that the promise comes into place. In the negotiations, the Christian People's Party has given special priority to two areas: violence and abuse, especially against children, and trafficking in human beings. In terms of violence and abuse, success in prevention and early intervention is crucial. We start with a lift to the midwives, who can get in at such an early stage that they can talk to the pregnant and maybe prevent or reveal that there is violence or abuse against the mother, and can also prevent the child from being exposed to it. It's also a powerful health care for sisters, with 100 million. kr. The same priority will be given to child protection and family protection, which are important for prevention. The point police are of course absolutely crucial when the cases and events have happened, in order to detect. Also means of investigation, to Kripos, are extremely important to increase national competence. Several persons have mentioned an infringement on networks. It's a big challenge. I saw today that there was a case about a man in his 20s that a fear was associated with 400 cases. Children are extremely vulnerable online, and raising their competences is very important. I have visited Kripos several times, and it is clear that we have a great job to do. The strong commitment that, after all, is also this year – because it was a great effort for the current year as well – I hope and believe that we will move on many steps. Finally, the follow-up of victims is very important, ensuring that those who have been subjected to violence or abuse can, of course, come back to society in a good way. There's an important job to do. When it comes to the job against trafficking in human beings, it's important to us. In the international context, there are not so many victims of trafficking in human beings in Norway, but we know that it does. It's a brutal exploitation of people, whether it's work, coercion or prostitution. Now, funds are allocated to EXIT teams in each police district, dedicated teams with expertise – lawyers and investigators who hopefully can take more backers – and also more funds to volunteer organisations working to provide housing and other offerings to victims of trafficking and to prostitutes who need social measures. Voluntary organisations are also something that has been promised in the budget conciliation. Both criminal services, law enforcement agencies and, as I said, social measures for victims of trafficking in human beings and prostitution have been lifted. It's extremely important, because they do a good job of completing and helping those who need it the most. The Courts have been elevated both through the main agreement and within the committee. I am pleased, because – as the representative Frülich was also in the room – there is still a job to do. When we strengthen the police as much as we do, it is important that the courts keep running. That is why I am also pleased that we have managed to solve the challenge with the long queues in terms of criminal custody. It is important that people are allowed to zone and move on as quickly as possible. I am pleased that the representative Raja is making the proposal for a transmission proposal, because none of us want the agreement with the Netherlands to last longer than it has to. If one solves the capacity in Norway, it is nice to be able to close it and put the money into the Norwegian Criminal Service, which needs the funds to get the best possible rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2374	Security in everyday life and enhanced preparedness are of the top priorities of the government. It also reflects the budget of the year for the justice sector. The police are delivering well today, and so are they in the future. The structural actions of the neighbourhood policy reform will be completed during 2018 and will contribute to the release of resources that can be used to improve the quality of services. Change capacity can therefore be more concentrated on better service provision and better quality. A number of measures are also in place to increase the quality of investigation and police work throughout the country. With more police work on the ground and joint criminal action for the entire police district, this will produce results. From 31 December 2013 until the autumn of this year, 30 November, there have been a total of 2,250 more annual works in the Norwegian police force. Of these, about 1,300 are trained police. It makes us pass a little bit of a historic milestone. For the first time in Norwegian history, there are 10,000 police officers in work to take care of the security of most people and the security of citizens – a priority task that this government carries out to the greatest extent. In total, there are 17,025 years' worth of police work. We're approaching the police coverage that we've been aiming to achieve, that by 2020 we're going to have a police coverage of 2 per 1,000. The number per today's date is 1.89. We are thus on the right track, and once again the government delivers in an important area, which is about security for the population. In the 2018 draft budget, the Government has proposed to increase the police operating budget by 100 million. kr. That's right, there's several references, but it's also going to carry on with the 295 million. kr, which was added to the table for 2017 and which is about free money for the police. It is also good that there is room for extra funding in the budget agreement for the new members of the Police College to get a job in the department during 2018. I expect that this again will align us to the goal we have set. The strong structure of the Norwegian police continues. The Courts are strengthened and modernised. The government's proposal for the 2018 budget is a continuation of the digitisation effort of the times. The government granted a further 37 million. to digital courts. A total of 235 million. to ICT projects that will improve the efficiency of the process and communication with external actors. In addition, 21 million are granted. kr to increased capacity. The government is busy for a short time from judgment to criminal execution and the police get the custody areas they need. When the government joined on 16 October 2013, 1,213 people stood in a row queue. Now this queue has been terminated. The police's custody needs are largely covered. Renting of detention centres in the Netherlands has contributed to this, and the government has agreed to extend the agreement until September 2019. We also have a historic commitment on hand. In total, the proposal contained 867 million. for the launch and construction of the Emergency Response Centre, three new high-quality police helicopters and enhanced border control. Most people’s preparedness and security — security for citizens — is one of the most important tasks of the state, and it is an area where this government delivers the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2393	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2398	Following the conciliation, the police and prosecution authorities will receive a strengthening of 1,054 million according to the setting. kr. The problem is that when one sums up what goes into wage and price increases, ABE cuts and other cuts and what is locked into investment in readiness, as I pointed out in my post, then one actually goes into minus. That's 74.6 million. kr i minus. On top of this, new ABE cut of 0,2 pst. Get in there. I expect the Council of State knows numbers, they come from his own budget proposals. And just to clarify that, the 100 million. The Council of State often claims to be a strengthening of the police districts, and the 30 million. kr to go to Oslo Police District, is also included in this calculation. Can the Council of State admit that the 2018 police and prosecution budget means a weakening of the police districts and their action space, or will the Council of State continue to refuse to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2405	I find it very difficult to recognize myself in the description that the opposition and, in particular, the Workers' Party is doing. It is a reality that the police have been given a historic promise under this government – that is, the number of employees, the number of annual works is increasing, and we have taken the initiative to strengthen the free resources of the police. The police, like all other public agencies, also need to base their efforts on efficiency. ABE cut is not just a police issue, it is true for most people in the public sector, in the state sector. There is room for priority within the budgets also for the police. I believe that, as in all other situations, priority must be given to this. Police must make priorities. Everyone in the public sector has to do that, because we have to spend the money wisely.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2412	After report. St. 18 for 2016-2017 on sustainable cities and strong districts came in winter, the Police College was to be investigated outside Oslo, and I took this up with the Minister of Justice on 8 March this year. Then the Minister of Justice answered me by stressing that this was an investigation, and said that: ‘We shall be careful to pre-conclude what the outcome of the investigation is’. The status now is that there is an assessment of the competence needs of the Police College in the future, and that the actual investigation of what kind of police higher education you are going to have, dimensioning etc. starts on 1 January. So it hasn't started. Nevertheless, the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Budgetary Position of the Judicial Committee state that they will: ‘emphasise that a new, modern PHS is to be located outside Oslo’. Does the Council agree with me that it is unthinkable to pre-conclusion in this way, as he warned against in the Questionnaire on 8 March this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2428	Of course, I do not believe that, simply because the question to which the representative refers was about the work that was actually started and from which we work. There are also leaders from Stortinget to try to get the location of future police high school outside Oslo. So it will be followed up in the further work, but we will come back to Stortinget with what the final structure should look like, and inform about it. This, of course, also needs to be seen in the context of the dimensioning of police higher education in the future, i.e. the number of educated people that will be needed, because it also needs to be seen in the context of reaching the 2020 target for two police officers and women per thousand inhabitants. So you have to have an overall assessment of this. And adding leaders from the Storting is nothing new.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2433	I think the government is good at cutting, and they're also good at cutting as it's hard to understand what's behind. You can take, among other things: the jury system as an example. It was first calculated that the termination of the jury scheme would save 5 million kroner. kr. Then came the budget agreement, where it had suddenly added an extra cut of $3 million. kr, as a saving there. In the budget agreement that came, there was also suddenly a cut in the appropriations for the police of 6.5 million. kr, as a result of a reduction in overtime use. It also appears to be an unrealistic cut when we hear that the police have too much to do, have too few jobs and don't get reinforcements, and that the police have to use the resources they have at all times. My question to the Council of State is: what is the background to these extra cuts suddenly being made, and how should the various police districts be instructed to avoid overtime?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2446	All police districts are responsible for managing their economy wisely and making the right priorities, and there is reason to believe that resources can be used even more efficiently to limit the use of overtime. It's a constant criticism, from the opposition, that you don't spend enough money. I think it's a little strange, all the time that the previous government couldn't deliver at all in the field of justice, was not near the construction of the Norwegian police and criminal prosecution chain that this government is conducting. The idea that taxpayers' money should be used more effectively is then assumed, I believe, something that everyone has to provide. It is our shared responsibility that the money we spend in the public sector, whether it be in the justice sector, in the education sector or wherever it may be, is spent wisely, and that they are spent on what they should – in this case, providing security for the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2453	We all agree that spending efficiently is good, but I feel that the Council of State is constantly standing too cut into the leg, and when it's no more to cut, he cuts his leg as well. The ABE reform is a good example of this, and it has already been mentioned. Within the courts, the ABE reform is also a problem. In the past, The Court of Justice and the Norwegian Judicial Association said that the ABE reform has so far led to the cutting of 40–45 judgments. Then we're not talking about cutting red tape, we're talking about cutting service production. If you continue the cuts, it is estimated that this will lead to 15-20 new jobs. Then my question is: what makes the Council of State think you can cut red tape when there is no more bureaucracy to cut and you start cutting jobs? And how are the cuts in, among other things, is criminal justice compatible with improving the production of services and improving the justice sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2462	There may be a reason why this government continues when one sees that the alternative to this government at all cannot think of an alternative when it comes to how to spend money. It's not just about increasing the budgets. It's also about how to use the funds you actually have. In the case of justice, it's about digitisation. It is a matter of being more effective, such as: with the change that was made to the jury system, and that you spend the money more wisely. The same is true of criminal and police: money can be used more smartly, in a way that creates good services and delivers a good offer to citizens, without necessarily strengthening budgets on any occasion. Then I mean – here as in all other cases – that we will always follow the budgetary situation of the agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2473	I would very much like to draw attention to the original draft budget, which came a few weeks ago. In that proposal, the government, the Right and the Advance Party, had cut off considerable funds from the legal aid system, i.e. the small organizations that provide legal aid to people who have poor finances. I was called down by various organizations that were very despairing. They knew that there were a lot of people who couldn't get help. This scheme has been put into effect precisely because it is designed to smooth out economic differences, so that even people who have poor advice are given the opportunity to receive legal aid. We never got any proper explanation as to why this action was necessary, so I ask the Minister of Justice now to explain to the Chamber why they wanted to cut support for these organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2478	In the original draft budget – and I have explained this to some extent in the past – we chose, when it comes to legal certainty, to give priority to the protection system. The Vertender Scheme needed a promise, and there is a significant budget commitment, which is absolutely necessary for the performance of important functions to be performed by the Vertender. So that was just a priority. Now I register – and I think it is good – that the four bourgeois parties have found a good solution between themselves, which also strengthens the voluntary organisations. But there's still reason for me to stress that when you try to produce the original cut that was in the budget, as a very strong estimate of legal certainty, it's relatively exaggerated, all the time it was based on about the level we had in 2015. So it wasn't that dramatic, but I'm positive that we've managed to find even more space in the Biggest... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2485	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2490	One of the main challenges we face is combating violence and abuse in society, especially online challenges. I, the undersigned and the Council of State, have shared an exposure to the storage of IP addresses, which are demanding politically, but which are important for the detection of several of those who are pedophiles, who exploit children online, or who spread and download assault images. But overall it seems to me that you are far behind. When I visit Kripos, it seems that we could really take a lot more if we had the capacity to do it. And working even more focused and bet even more on that field is something that at least I'm concerned about. Can the Council say a little bit more about its plans for the further work to really lift that field and get even further, both to protect more people and to get more of those who commit crimes, download different images and do illegalities online?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2497	I really appreciate that question. This is one of the most important areas in which we need to deliver — and deliver better — in the justice sector, because it is about taking care of the weakest of all: children and young people who are being abused, including online. This is important to raise it through priorities, as you do, and I am very pleased that it has been further strengthened through the budget agreement in the Stortinget. But it's also about methods, it's about giving the police the methods they need to combat online abuse. Then – as the representative of the City of Roupstad pointed out quite correctly – the storage of IP addresses over a longer period of time than is possible today is an action. That investigation work is in progress. I have given that priority and will come back as soon as possible, so that we get a clarification on it. As quite rightly pointed out, it has to be reconciled with human rights and that kind of problem, but here I have all the intentions to get back quickly to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2503	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2510	As the Minister of Justice knows, I have long been concerned about the situation of organised crime and criminals, after the government first removed the term ‘organized crime’ from the letters of assignment to the police, which thus governs police action, from one year to the next, and then put down all the org.krim sections of the police on 1 May this year. My concern is confirmed by the latest figures regarding the number of criminal cases that have been raised with the Article 79 of the Criminal Code, which is now Section 60 of the Criminal Code. In 2014, there were 36 such cases. I don't think it's a big number, but the number was over three times higher than it is when there's only a few days left of 2017, which is 11 things in 2017, i.e. less than a third of what was in 2014. So I'm concerned about the situation of working long-term and comprehensively with these organized criminal environments, and about whether you can deal with cases against them according to the org. Krim paragraph, where you have higher penalties and can use better methods. I also hear from those who work or have worked with criminal gangs and organized crime in the police districts in their own sections, that they are now not allowed to concentrate on working with them in the same way, but that they must move out on all kinds of crime, and that it goes beyond revealing the structures, taking the principals, and not only react from day to day to what is happening out on the street. Because the problem is that if you don't get to take the structures, take the principals, it happens more and more on the street, which we have unfortunately seen in recent times. If we look at different places in the country, and especially in Oslo and some urban areas here, we have seen that the recruitment of young people by criminal gangs to drug addiction, to commit violence, to fight over territories for where to sell drugs, has increased sharply. There has been a significant increase in uncertainty in some of the neighbourhoods, for example: in Oslo south, where a person was executed on the open street just a few weeks ago. It's good that the government proposes $30 million. It is also a recognition that the situation is worsening and that not enough has been done to date. My challenge to the Minister of Justice is to learn the lesson, to make this investment of $30 million. In the long term, one has to go into the whole of Oslo, into several parts of the city, and also into other police districts that have the same type of challenges, and one has to rebuild its own units that get to work concentrated on the major challenge of organised crime and criminal gangs. I hope the Council of State thinks that when I was last on the Justice Committee, the Progress Party actually advocated a national force against organised crime – that is, the extreme of what you are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2527	Children shall not grow up with the sound of shooting and shock grenades in the school yard. The police emergency centre plan is that there will be 850 metres from the schools and kindergartens in my yard, and that there will be explosive training and at least 3000 round-the-clock shots on an open fire course. The children in the yard will grow up with the sound of explosives and shots from they stand up until they lie down. If we knew that we got a lot more security and security for the plagues, the situation might be different. But we have great doubts about the plan as it lies, giving strengthened preparedness. The Ministry of Justice Councils have called the project a symbolic project. The practice opportunities are limited to a minimum, the July 22 report showed that we need more cooperation between the police and the defense, and we need to be able to shoot from the helicopter. The Taraldrud Emergency Response Centre does not solve any of these challenges. Let's use 2.6 billion. kr, we need to know that it's worth it. This is why we are now proposing an external evaluation with a view to improving the project in order to strengthen national preparedness, improve training opportunities for the police and reduce the burden on the community. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV support the proposal for a decision, and we have a majority on the Left vote in favour of the proposal. On 7 June this year, Ola Elvestuen of the Left said this about the emergency centre at the people's meeting in Søndre Nordstrand: We have to take a step back, look at different alternatives. If I have a position to influence, I shall definitely make that decision immediately. The Elvestu has the position, and the decision is in front of him. On August 22nd this year, at Kolbotn, Abid Q. Raja went even further: If the votes of the Left are required to get through a budget to build this emergency centre, then I'm going to promise you that we will do everything we can. I promise you. And on the other hand, If you vote for me, said Raja, I will never accept that a budget goes through to build that emergency centre unless you're satisfied. I promise you. Well, people in Upper Court are not satisfied with the proposal from the Left. Raja boasts of a non-binding proposal for sufficient noise abatement and involvement, but now only the Left believes that this proposal is something other than government air. Norway needs better preparedness. We need a strong national response centre, where we know that we spend the money wisely so that Norway becomes safer in the fight against terrorism. And the center must be built so that the children in the Upyard do not grow up with the sound of shooting and shock grenades.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2552	I want to borrow words from the Directorate of Criminal Welfare when I start this post. ‘Approximately unmanageable’ is the description from the KDI. So Norwegian criminal services are facing an unmanageable situation. We get feedback from the employees that there is a strong increase in violence and threats in our prisons. We can't accept that that's the way it is. We have to take seriously the signals from those who work in prison. We can't accept people going to work and risk coming home with a blue eye. Governments have been familiar with these challenges over time, but have chosen not to do anything about it. Instead, the government with supporting parties has continued with the irresponsible cuts in the budget. Employee organisations have described the budgetary situation as a systematic reduction in Norwegian criminal justice. The famine of our prisons, if it doesn't stop, will lead to more repeaters and more dangerous criminals. The Working Party cannot accept this. That's why we're proposing $60 million. more than the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party to ensure the security of prisons and to strengthen crime prevention. In the process of making the situation visible in prisons and criminal services, I have on several occasions asked the Council of State questions about how he will ensure proper criminal care and how he will reduce the number of violence and threats to employees reported today. The answer from the Council of State has not given me good night's sleep. Instead of being concerned about doing something about the situation, he has continued to talk about the need for efficiency improvement and seemed alarmingly satisfied with his own efforts. I want to repeat myself and underline what I believe must be the main objective of criminal justice. Criminal law will provide for the proper rehabilitation of prisoners, so that they can return to society as good neighbors for you and me. I am now concerned that we can no longer expect this, and that the goal of the government seems to be storage rather than rehabilitation. The government should listen to the KDI, which was quoted this weekend in the Official Journal of Bergen: ‘Now it’s hard to see how we’re going to handle cuttings for years. That's something we have to do less of. One result will be increased lock-in by the prisoners.» KDI hopes that the government will make a wise choice in the future. So do I.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2570	We have one of the world's best educations of policemen. Not many countries can divorce a high-school police force, and that is probably one of the reasons why the police in Norway have a high level of respect for the population. It's a generalist education that forms the basis of the police study, which I think has been a success for many decades. Now the Ministry of Justice and Defence has commissioned the Police Directorate to look at the skills and capabilities of the future police. The background for this is exactly the same as the background for police reform, namely that the world and the crime scene have changed. Which of us would have thought that we should be linked up to the web so to say all day through our smartphones? Who would have thought that the robbers got hold of their victims while the parents were present, wall to wall with the children's room? Who would have thought that the robotic society, as we've seen as imaginative bodies in movies and books, is becoming part of our everyday life? These are changes that have consequences for how the police organize themselves. If we cling to an old structure of how the police are organized, I'm afraid we can't help fighting the new crime. We know, among other things: lack of competence in both IT and cybercrime. This government is gripping and implementing the near-police reform, because we know that we cannot continue as we have always done. Lowering the Länsmannskontoret with a few employees in order to collect the power is important and correct. An operational rolling stock police force increases its presence in front of a closed grenade. Now it's like I've been working for ten years as a waitress in a small office, and I have to say that sometimes it was time to look after this office instead of being actively looking out, it was simply a waste of resources. Centralization calls the Center Party what this government has done, and so does the Workers' Party and SV. Ironically, when we are about to consider placing the Police College outside Oslo, we experience a storm of criticism from the Workers' Party. It seems a little strange, in the light of previous opinions on centralisation. We have reached an agreement with the Left to consider moving state jobs out of Oslo, and this may mean that the Police College is being moved, but the agreement with the Left does not preclude a location in Oslo either. The most important thing is to ensure that the police are given the best starting point for preventing and combating crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2583	In the daily political debates, it is easy to forget the big picture of why we have made the changes in the police that we have made in recent years. However, on 22 July 2011 there was a major failure in police and preparedness Norway. The tragedy that took place this day, and the subsequent Gjørv Commission showed us that Norwegian police this day unfortunately struck and was not well enough prepared for such an event. This is why we have had to make changes in recent years, because the police we had at that time were unfortunately not good enough. Changing the police and improving operational capabilities have been necessary. This budget also provides for an increase in the operational capacity of the police. The 300 million. kr, which was granted as a one-off extension to last year's operation, is continued. And then we add it to 100 million. kr extra, and I will praise the four cooperation parties in Stortinget to find room for 130 million. kr extra at the top of the 400 mill. kr from before by. Let there be no doubt: this is a bet. We also have 100 million. kr put in place in the revised national budget for investment in driving equipment and other equipment. Three new police helicopters have been ordered this year, and now in the fall 63 police cars are being rolled out. This helps to improve the Norwegian police, but it is a continuous job, and the job is far from over. I'm going to do something so extraordinary for a Progress Party politician to quote a former Labour Party State Minister. Gro Harlem Brundtland once said the wise words: Everything is related to everything. It also applies in the justice sector. It does not help to give more money to the police to take more robbers, to say it that way, if you do not also give more money to the courts to handle matters more quickly. We've given the police a lot of money. Today, the news came that the police for the first time have more than 10,000 police professionals. But in this budget, and not least in this agreement, for which I will give a great deal of praise to the Christian People's Party and the Left, 21 million, respectively. NOK 15 million. kr to bet on the courts. It doesn't help to give more money to the police, so they can take more robbers, and give more money to the courts, so that they can judge more people or handle matters faster, if you don't at the other end increase the number of prison places. In this budget, there are more than 700 million. DKr to a new prison in Agder with 300 places and also money for the continuation of prison in the Netherlands for one more year. We have to see the criminal case chain in one whole. It is good to bet on the police, but we must also bet on the courts. We also need to invest in prison places because the budget is not just about money. It's also about seeing the whole thing, because if money was the only solution to all the problems, we wouldn't have had any political problems in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2594	I will also be allowed in this Chamber to express a strong concern from the border counties of Eastfold. Cross-border crime is an increasing problem. People, drugs, alcohol and cigarettes are smuggled across borders every day with more and more sophisticated methods. If we're going to stop crime in this country, we're going to have to stop it where it comes in, right on the border. It is about complex and cross-border crime that requires dedicated forces, specialisation, professional skills and local knowledge. The near-police reform has systematically removed the members of the border municipalities. Aremark has lost his loner, and the bilgeman in Marker is now on his way. It is also predicted that there is uncertainty about the Länsmannskontoret in Aurskog-Høland. It is tempting to think that when you do this, you look at the population of the municipalities in question and not at the function of a border guard. The statesman in Marker confirmed in conversation that more than half of his mission is about cross-border crime. Yes, the customs tariff is also very concerned and has expressed this. How can it be that a man's function along the border is weakened without taking on what function they have? They are in the first line service against the introduction of crime into Norway. With the close police reform, the border crossings at Ørje, at E18, and at Svinesund, E6, become unmanned. It is difficult to understand that borderside security and preparedness should be weakened in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2603	Before the 2013 elections, a number of parties were skeptical of a separate animal police force. The Workers' Party and Jan Bøhler stated that it was the Food Authority that was to ensure the legal security of the animals, and the Workers' Party was against the Animal Police. Now we're at full speed towards a nationwide animal police force. It's a victory I and the Progress Party are proud to have fought forward. The Progress Party has in government provided for the establishment of animal police in South and North Trondelag, Rogaland, Eastfold and Akershus. In 2018 also Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane, Hedmark and Uppland will receive animal police units. At the 2017 national meeting, the Progress Party decided to put in place a nationwide animal police force. Now we're working on fulfilling this promise. For the Progress Party, the fight for an animal police force is about what kind of society we want. The party wants a society that is on the victim's side, regardless of whether the victim has four or two legs. The animal police's first attack was of a man who had skinned, abused and killed a cat. As a result of the work of the animal police, it was also revealed that the animal abuser had child pornography and fantasized about killing and rapeing girls at the age of nine. For us animal friends, it is a matter of course that the abuse and abuse of animals should be investigated and punished. In order to ensure that acts of violence against animals are prioritised, there is therefore absolutely a need for a separate animal police force, but unfortunately we have to assume that there are strong forces that believe that the police are solely to protect the interests of people. It's still a little positive that we don't have to go that far to convince these people too about the need for an animal police. An animal police force is one of the most important measures to prevent violence and abuse against people. In the United States, the FBI has upgraded animal crime to a category A crime, precisely because they have seen that so many of the most serious offenders also commit animal abuse. The animals have no own voice and are completely dependent on us humans. Both animals and humans deserve to be taken seriously. The fight for a national animal police is about what kind of society we want, and in the Progress Party we are crystal clear: we do not surrender until both animals and people throughout the country have the security they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2620	The fire and rescue service has undergone major changes in recent years. Through PLIVO, the fire crew shall consider going into sharp situations if they come before the police. While waiting for the ambulance, a health-related task for the fire department is also given. This means that municipalities have to take a greater part of the costs for the country. It is important that the fire and rescue service is available where people cage. The fire and rescue services consist of both full-time and part-time staff who make a good and solid effort to secure the population of Norway. Part-time teams I want to get a little closer to now. They have local knowledge and a wide range in their professional background. They are often the first naudata to be found at the site of the injury and have competence for important tasks. It is therefore important that we facilitate the maintenance and recruitment of part-time workers and ensure good conditions for local fire and rescue services. The government has entrusted DSB with the task of submitting a proposal for a revised dimensioning regulation to be adapted to the major fire and fire services. The proposal includes, inter alia: within a new requirement for each fire and rescue service to have three full-time settings. I am strongly critical of this as long as funding is not included. Many municipalities cannot defend financially having three full-time settings, and then they will be forced to enter the larger fire service, as the government wants, and the rental will be centralised. This involves several negative aspects, including the fact that municipalities may lose their right to resource and the ability to make investment decisions, and this also applies to the crew. The centre party is in favour of a proposal for the government to issue a fire and rescue service report. This is an important proposal. I miss that one sees the soundness of the role of the fire and rescue team, including the understanding of the economic consequences for the municipalities. For this reason, it is important to send a big message, as the majority in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights would like to see. The revised dimensioning regulation must be iced until such a thorough review of the fire and rescue service has been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2635	I will give the Minister of Justice right in one area, and that is that the result of the policy is not about the ability to spend as much money as possible or increase the number of employees as possible. No, for example, the result. in the case of the Directorate of Police, is not wise when one has increased the number of employees by almost double, in a directorate which, otherwise, the Advance Party was previously in a position to resign. What's important in the justice sector and in the police is to make sure that people throughout the country are safe, that's to make sure that the police are close when people need it, and that's to make sure that the police move out and take care of the security of people. In my own home country, Akershus, figures presented by the Minister of Justice themselves show that the number of attacks has dropped throughout the county, and the number of orders has increased. With the massive centralization that this government has provided, in combination with the fact that one not given enough money to the police districts, this is not going to happen. Trustees in the police are warning. There's some locals who're warning. The head of the Police Union in East Police District called the police budget presented by the government a scandal. But what should also lead to a certain degree of concern, not only to some extent, but a great deal of concern for that majority in this Chamber, is that the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for implementation, has said about the draft police budget that the police budget is at best in zero, while one has large projects to be implemented. It's not very reliable, and it's not in line with the beauty paint that government party representatives are trying to do here. The central party supports the establishment of police emergency services. At the same time, we are committed to helping the Emergency Response Centre to strengthen preparedness across the country, to improve training conditions for the police, and to providing additional noise abatement measures. Therefore, there is a need for an external review of the project, and here is the Left with the key. With all the concern and with all the legitimate counter-representations that have come, also from the Departmental Councils of the Ministry of Justice, there is good reason to go through the project again. So here's the left with the key. I really hope that they support the proposal of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre for an external review.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2644	Being safe in and outside their own home is important to the fundamental sense of freedom and to maintain the trust that characterizes Norwegian society. The risk picture may change rapidly and, for this reason, preparedness must be regularly evaluated and adapted. It also has our major challenges this year around our country, including: in Developments in Sogn and Fjordane this summer, where much of the centre of the village was drawn by landslides, and during the extensive flooding of the Southland in the fall. Just before the weekend, huge rainfalls led to landslides on Easter Island in Hordaland, with fatal consequences, where a human life too was lost. It's a big and demanding job to be in front of different scenarios and events — maybe it's impossible. But when the crisis is over, all actors must be able to read the situation quickly, know their role, interact and put in action properly. Terrorism, serious crime, natural disasters, extreme weather and digital attacks are one of the threats we are surrounding today. At the same time, we feel that the world around us is becoming more unseemly. The work on social security and preparedness is distributed across a range of levels and supervision. The government is now building rock to professionalize, strengthen and coordinate the social security chain. Better coordination and a holistic overview will improve society’s ability to deal with serious events in the future. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness supports the Ministry of Justice and Security in the coordination role, and they are willing to carry out a large and comprehensive task, which they are most seriously in charge of. DSB’s analysis of the different crisis scenarios led to more coordinated preparedness work by providing a common planning basis for the different actors. Ensuring life and health and critical societal functions is overarching the goal of work on social security. The government has taken great responsibility and has done a lot to strengthen the preparedness of our country in recent years. The 2018 budget prioritises and further strengthens the area of social security through the establishment of a Emergency Response Centre on Taraldrud. We're going to have 3 new police helicopters, 16 new rescue helicopters, and we're going to have a total of 3.2 billion. kr in total for operation, maintenance and modification of today’s rescue helicopters. The work of establishing a public fire and rescue personnel training school is continuing. Civil defence is strengthened by a new and better system of evidence, and more money comes to equipment and materials.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2660	Now Norway and the Stortinget have spent almost 1 billion. D to hire prisons in the Netherlands. The working party has been against the whole road. It has also, in fact, the left. Today I was glad that I saw both the proposal from the Left and what should actually be clear, that there is a majority on the Stortinget to conclude the agreement with the Netherlands. Then, a rather hesitant representative, Raja, comes into the debate here before today and says that the Left will turn it into a transmission proposal. Then the policy to the left, and that proposal, is worth nothing. Today we could have decided to wind up the agreement and use more than 89 million. in Norwegian, something that a person really needs. It is sad to note that on the first day of the negotiations where the Left is going to enter and negotiate government with the Right and the Advance Party, this is happening. I hope, Abid Q. Raja, if you can right me, that the left comes back in the hall and does the right thing for why they're doing this. It is sad to see that the Left is not doing any good – on the first day when they are going to enter and negotiate with the Right Party and the Progress Party – to be in charge of their own policies. Left and Abid Q. Raja says to NTB today that they trust the government to follow this up, and looks forward to a progress plan for how we can do it. But this isn't hard. The agreement with the Netherlands expires in September of next year. Then it's just not to enter into that agreement and use the money on existing prisons in Norway, starting to build up existing prisons like in Skien and Halden. For this reason, I – there are still several hours left to vote – hope that the Left will do so for the Left Mien, and vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal, as the majority of the Committee is behind, to conclude the agreement with the Netherlands in September 2018. It would be to be straight ahead and stand for what one has said, and I think it's an incredibly bad start for the left if they consider going into this government with such a start that we've seen today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2673	The President will recall that the statements are to be addressed to the President and not to representatives who are not present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2678	I want to first say that I'm joining 100 pst. to the previous speaker, and can also announce that SV will present a proposal for a representative on the very case related to prisons in the Netherlands. Now to a completely different issue: SV is concerned that Norway is a humanitarian power and should continue to be so, that we have a number of major and important international commitments, and that we should take international responsibility. That's why, in the last two years, since the summer of 2015, we've had several marine vessels in the Mediterranean to pick up refugees. These operations now want the current government to shut down. Those who have objected to their resignation will lose their vote on this today. Mediterranean operations have been part of the defence of the external border of Schengen. There are twelve vessels currently participating. The goal has been to pick up boat refugees, you all know this matter well. They've recorded 50,000 boat refugees in the last two years. Many of these refugees would have drowned in other circumstances. In total this year, more than 150 000 refugees have come across the sea. Already this year it is 2,700 who have drowned. The government's reason, that there is no longer a need for rescue boats in the area, is completely incomprehensible to me. 2 700 people have drowned. That means there's a huge need for this. The Special Advance Party has criticized the Triton operations because they think they have a so-called pull effect, that it attracts refugees, so to speak. Some have even called this a ferry for refugees. But refugees are the result of war, poverty, persecution and not least desperation. Ending this mission would be a disaster for thousands of people. It is with great disappointment that I note that the Left has joined in on this proposal. The cut in the contribution to Triton will have very obvious consequences. We decide this cut today, and you who vote for it, should know that the following will happen: fewer boat refugees will be rescued, many boat refugees, perhaps several hundred, will drown. Civil boats, Norwegian merchant ships, are again given the task of picking up the boat refugees. This was the case before 2015, and that was among other things. the pressure from these ones that made us put this system in place. SV wishes to maintain this matter in its revised budget. We are going to be downcast today, but I want people here to know that it is disastrous to look through the fingers at the fact that there is no longer such an important humanitarian contribution in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2693	The President reminds us again that the posts are to be directed here, not to the assembly in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2698	In the Justice Budget setting, the Labour Party draws an important dividing line between the Red-Green Government and today's Right-Fremskritspart-government. When we presented our own big message on the fight against organised crime and followed up on it, today's government has closed down all the sections against organized crime in the police districts. It's worrying in many ways. We in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs are particularly concerned about the growing crime of working life, which is spreading from industry to industry. Earlier this year, it was shown how criminal networks, through construction, sanitation, etc., are now also moving into the health and care sector. If one criminal network is detected, they move on to new businesses and new industries. Employees suffer from this, the serious employers too. This form of crime really undermines the whole foundation of the Norwegian welfare society. In addition, we are affected as consumers, and it is even more worrying that this can also lead to patient safety. The red-green government started work on establishing centres for crime at work. The Right Party and the Advance Party have to a large extent followed up that very thing, but it goes too small. The National Audit Board has previously criticised Erna Solberg's government for not doing enough in the fight against the organised crime of working life. During the consultation of the Labour and Social Committee on our budget for 2018, the criticism was quite unambiguous. Several social partners concluded that too little effort is being made. Specter was clear that the a-krim centres had to be strengthened, LO asked for a significant investment in the Labour Inspectorate, UNI stressed the need to step up efforts to combat labour crime, YS asked where the investment is in the budget, the National Association of Construction criticised the cut in the appropriations for the Labour Inspectorate and called for several a-krim centres in the cities. The Labour Party, on its side, asked budgetary questions about the new measures to combat labour crime promoted in the 2018 budget. The government replied that no new bets were proposed. While more and more serious examples of social dumping, gross exploitation of workers and crime in Norwegian employment are being revealed, there is therefore no increase in government spending. There was nothing in the budget agreement either. The Labour Party added 64 million to its alternative budget. kr. divided between the Labour Inspectorate, the Petroleum Inspectorate, the Ecocrime, the Tax Agency, the tripartite industry programme, the regional protection ombudsman and a new centre against the crime of working life. We were shocked. Unfortunately, the fight against labour crime is still an area where there is a distinction between an active red-green and a more passive dark blue policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2711	Criminal services are now facing major challenges, which are not resolved by the budgetary settlement that exists. The central party believes that the settlement parties in the prison area give priority to fundamental errors, and we do completely different priorities in our budget. Since 2013, the ABE cuts have led to a reduction of 150 million. kr in the operational budgets of the prisons. Less bureaucracy and more efficient operation are in themselves positive. But the situation is now such that the cuts go beyond the job done in everyday life, in the meeting between employees and prisoners. Instead of spending money on improving the conditions in Norwegian prisons and building enough prisons here, the settlement parties quickly choose to maintain the rental agreement with the Netherlands on prison sites, at a cost of more than 300 million. kr annually – despite the loss of prison queues and the availability of capacity here in Norway of the same type as in the Netherlands. In addition, the only people who really want this agreement are the Right and the Advance Party. Nevertheless, they are permeated by it, with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party. The central party believes that renting foreign prison places for Norwegian citizens who, against their will, are going to zone there is a fundamental flaw, and that the Christian People's Party and the Left have the heart to let that practice continue is incomprehensible. In the Central Party's alternative budget, we do not add money to renew the rental agreement with the Netherlands, but rather spend the money to improve the operation of Norwegian prisons and expand the prison capacity faster than the government spends. Many prisons are now cut to the bone when it comes to resources. Deployment, extremely high labour pressure, temporary sick leave and the lack of opportunity to call in temporary workers in case of absence are the reality that we have – and that once again affects the prisoners. Over several years, we have seen an increase in violence and threats; we have seen increased use of isolation, belt bed and coercive measures against prisoners and cut back on rehabilitation programmes and activities. In Norway, we do not have life sentences. Except in very special cases, everyone is to be punished again in society. It's almost necessary to reflect in the way we handle convicted people. Penalties should not only be recurring and preventative; they should also be rehabilitating. We're going to help the convicted people come back to society and prevent relapses. The centre party is quite clear that criminal services need content to ensure the rehabilitation and follow-up of prisoners. This is why we also prioritise increased funding for prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2730	The representative Lise Christoffersen raised the issue of the crime of working life, and it is quite striking that the Minister of Justice did not find an opportunity to mention it at all in his main post, when we are faced with one of the major social problems in Norway for the time being. But it's consistent with the impression of government's lack of involvement in that matter. As the representative of Christoffersen said, it is like this year when we asked the Minister of Labour what new measures are now being put into the fight against the crime of working life, we got exactly the same answer as when we asked the same question a year ago: no new measures. It's quite dramatic that the government is not showing commitment to one of the major social problems, but on the contrary must be driven from chance to chance to do anything at all on the demands of the opposition, and not least on the demands of the social partners. So the Prime Minister said on 15 November here in Stortinget that we are now beginning to see the results of action against labour crime ‘in the form of convictions’, but when the representative Arild Grande asked questions to the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice replied that he could not make any results visible or document them. It is probably true, as Einar Haakaas and others write, and as the Riksrevision said in a report to the Stortinget last year, that there is a total lack of follow-up from the government of measures against labour-related crime. In Westfold we have a very good project called the Cobuilders. The Labour and Social Committee in the past period was there and visited it, and I would recommend the Minister of Justice, instead of staring with his eyes, maybe taking a trip there and looking at that project. There is the fact that public authorities, the police, the Labour Inspectorate and the Tax Administration have joined forces with the LO and the NHO, but also with the construction industry as a whole, and not least with the construction business, which often observe that there is a lot of cash trading from a curly banknote roll in the pocket, and actually got into a system where it is now common for the Joint Confederation representative or NHO’s representative in the project to receive warnings that are not only received but also followed up with action. I would draw attention to this for the Minister of Justice, because it is possible for the Minister of Justice to contribute something to that project. It is possible for the Minister of Labour to contribute, yes, it is also possible for the Minister of Local Council to contribute to the further development of that project in the new county, Vestfold and Telemark, where we now have a project.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2743	On 22 August of this year, the representative Raja made a post in front of the City Hall of Oppegård where he promised the following – and I quote: If the votes of the Left are required to implement a budget to build the Emergency Centre, I promise that we will do what we can to ensure that the shooting range is built, the noise walls are going up, and the noise is going down to a minimum. I simply wonder whether the Left is satisfied with what they have achieved in the budget negotiations on the Emergency Centre. I also wonder if the representative Raja believes he now keeps what he promised in the election campaign. Raja went on to say to those who met on August 22nd: If you vote for me, I will never accept that a budget goes through to build that emergency centre, unless you're satisfied that the noise is at least. I would like to remind the representative Raja that the people of Oppegårde have voted on the Left precisely on the basis of this message, and I would therefore challenge the Left to support the proposal promoted by the SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party to ask the Government to carry out an external evaluation of the further progress towards the construction of the National Police Emergency Centre on Taraldrud, with a view to improving the project in such a way as to strengthen national preparedness, improve training opportunities for the police and reduce the burden on the community. The evaluation shall not delay the progress of the emergency centre. It cannot be so dangerous to vote in favour of this proposal, especially with the promises given to the local population in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2756	When the government took over the government in 2013, the prison queue was an Achilles heel. 1,200 stood in prison queue. A large-scale clean-up work was started in which there was also a lag on maintenance and plan for new prisons. Alternatives such as cushioning by foot and housing on drug institutions were strengthened and investment was made in transport contracts for settlement in the home country of convictions. A temporary agreement was also concluded with Norwayrhaven in the Netherlands for high-security prison inmates. The results were not allowed to wait. The prison queue has been reduced from 1200 to 150 doms. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV now want to cancel this agreement, and that is before we have the capacity to get away from the reconciliation queue here at home in Norway. We have always pointed out that the solution in the Netherlands is temporary. But before we get new prison places to go to Norway, this is irresponsible. The government is realising the largest expansion of new prisons in many decades. When Agder prison is ready and completed in 2020, we have a different situation. What will the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV do in the meantime — allow high-security prisoners to remain in long queues, fill the prisons to the brink, challenging the settlement conditions in Norwegian prisons, or extend the use of settlement methods with electronic control to more severe sentences? There is a lack of high-security prisons in Norway. The trend is now that the sentences are longer, and the settlement of shorter sentences has decreased. We meet today’s needs for high-security sites by sending prisoners to Norwayrhaven. The reconciliation agreement has also led to a reduction in the number of Norwegian prisons. It's now 90 p.m., which means that prisoners get better terms in this country. This also leads to the presence of more staff per person employed, resulting in better control, a decrease in violence and threats and fewer or no duplications. We get the opportunity to save money, and we can empty and clean up entire departments. It's an important relief. A lot is happening in criminal care, and a lot has to be cleaned up after eight years of red-green management where the maintenance of prisons and prison cows was down-priority. That's why we actually need Norwayrhaven to get to the finish line. If not, we'll go back to long cows and overcrowded prisons. In addition, when 1,200 courts are in line, the general sense of law is undermined. The consideration of the lives of the dependants and the doomsdays is put on hold.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2767	After all, this has become a rather perceptive debate to listen to. I think it is alarming to listen to parties who complain about an agreement that has just fixed what they themselves never managed to do, namely to get rid of the pay queues. Let's go back to the previous government. It put at some point over 2,000 people in a payroll queue, I think the figure is close to 2,500 – 2,500 people who pause their lives, which leads to explosive capacity in prison, which leads to potentially dangerous people going free, getting reduced penalties or, in some cases, actually going completely free. Politicians on the left have simply lacked creativity and the power of action to do something about these queues. They did what politicians have done so often before them: just talk and talk and talk about this being a problem to be solved, but no one had the power of action shown by this government in concluding the Netherlands agreement. Yeah, it's a little bit expensive. Yeah, it's legal new crime. That's the whole point of trying a new solution. If it weren't difficult and a little tough to get rid of the reconciliation queues, there wouldn't have been any art, there wouldn't have been any problem. It simply takes a little political courage to get it done. The left side let go. That's completely fair, that's fine. They chose to hold long cows and rather build a little here and build a little with an eight-year perspective, a 10-year perspective, and hoped that the cows would disappear. They didn't. But then you have to be honest that you wouldn't take the necessary steps. What makes this criticism particularly difficult is that it is the same parties that are now criticising this agreement, which even torpedoed a reform of the criminal justice system that could release funds, and on top of this now threatens to remove the basis of the Netherlands agreement and send almost two completed aircraft with prisoners back to Norway, without knowing the consequences. That's the top of irresponsibleness. So first they can't fix the prison queues, then they criticize the solution that fixed the prison queues, then torpedo the reform that frees the prison funds, then complain about the lack of funds afterwards, and then they will abolish the Netherlands agreement and risk getting the prison queues back, without knowing the consequences. There is one word for this, and it is irresponsible. That's a classic example of us being "damned if we do and damned if we don't".
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2780	It is not uncommon for us to stand here and discuss political issues in Norway, as well as different solutions. But it's very special that we're sitting here discussing a solution that has actually worked. Prisons in the Netherlands have been eliminated in Norway. It's a little bit extra special that the parts that are the greatest opponents of this solution are the same batches that left a strike queue of 1,200. So we're talking about thinking it's better for convicted criminals to go around the streets in Norway than they're in a prison in the Netherlands. There is no objective for this government that the prison system in the Netherlands should last for many years. It was intended as a temporary solution because we wanted to put in more prison places in Norway. And that's exactly what we're doing in this state budget. Over 700 million. For a new prison in Agder, 300 new places will be available in a few years’ time. This shows that we're dealing with criminal custody. That some parties choose to spend so much time going against the greatest solution we've had on the payroll in Norway for many years, I have to say I think is special. I myself was in the Netherlands earlier this month and looked at the work done there. I would like to give great credit to the criminal services and the directorate for the work that has been done. It is a well-run prison with high satisfaction among both employees and prisoners. It's a place where almost 80 pst. of the prisoners have foreign citizenship, and very many of them will leave Norway after settlement. It is also a perspective to include in this prison. And it's a prison that's taught a lot of lessons both to Norwegian and to Dutch criminal care. The Contracting Party has proposed that this Agreement be terminated as from 1 January. This option is either that 242 prisoners are released from prison in the New Year’s Eve, or that we are once again increasing the coverage of Norwegian prisons. 90 pst. to 100 p.m., which means pressure, fear and other things for Norwegian prison staff. As I said – I am very used to discussing solutions to political issues, but what many of the other parties are addressing in this debate is simply creating a political problem that this government has solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2794	There's a lot of talk about cows, and the government parties often like to compare with the red-green period. Yes, we can do that, and then I would like to look at the trial period in some courts. In Fredrikstad, the trial period has increased from 61 days in 2012 to 91 days today and from 103 days in 2012 to 143 days in Sarpsborg with this government. The country average shows an average increase of 12 days. In Fredriksstad Blade on November 15th and in the Smälenes Avis on November 18th, the alarming signals came from the sorenners at Fredrikstad district court and Heggen and Frøland court respectively. Both pointed to the increasing use of criminal penalties and increased time spent in court proceedings because of lack of resources. Fredrikstad District Court is required to cut 557 000 for the following year with the draft budget presented by the government. The central party shares the concerns of the sorenists, and believes it is a cross of thought that the government has been very concerned about reducing the pay queue, but has not taken the increasing length of proceedings before the courts of the country seriously. Long processing times pose a legal certainty problem and in addition increase the costs and less predictability of the parties. The situation in which the courts are located is not surprising. The court administration has for a long time announced what developments we could expect if the budget cuts continued. Only the cuts in 2016 and for the current year have reduced staffing by 35–40years, and in the draft budget, the red tape and efficiency reform continues with a further cut of 12.1 million. krones. Then I see that you're trying to say that you've taken back a little bit of the deal, but it's money that disappears because at the same time you're increasing the efficiency cuts. The Minister of Finance has said that the reform of red tape and efficiency was introduced because there are clear demands for less bureaucracy and more for taxpayers’ money. That's good, but the point is that there's hardly any bureaucracy to cut at the courts. In practice, the cuts in the courts have affected the production of services. The only remaining taxpayers are longer processing queues. The central party believes it is high time to correct this shock-driving shooting and to ensure that the courts will again be able to reach the targets for the case resolution. Unfortunately, I fear that there is a hidden agenda at the back, namely that the government's goal is to thin the courts in this field too in order to start a new round of centralisation of the courts. The center party thinks it's the wrong medicine. Just medicine here is more than one job to get away from the case. Norwegian courts are very effective, they just need enough people to do the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2809	A central objective of the Verjemsdiel reform, which was undertaken in 2013, was to better adapt the defence objective to the individual’s wishes and needs. The new code of protection shall safeguard and enhance the legal security and integrity of the persons to whom it applies. These challenges have been linked to the implementation of the reform, which has, among other things, led to capacity challenges and residues in county offices and to impact on the level of achievement of the objectives. The main challenges are for doctors to put in place ICT solutions, a significant increase in the number of shelters and the large influx of single minor asylum seekers associated with the refugee crisis in the autumn of 2015. By the end of 2016, there were 64 000 protection measures on a national basis. In addition, 3 800 representative missions were registered for single minor asylum seekers. An older man was interviewed by the Newspaper in November this year. About his defence he said he had never met him. He didn't know who he was. He had money on book and would have liked to have had some cash that he could use in everyday life: “Then I wanted to buy newspapers. I miss that. [[...]] I would like to have a new shaver. And then there's one thing that bothers me. The TV's not working. It is completely dead." This is not okay, and it shouldn't be. It has been important for the Right and the Advance Party to take seriously the challenges expressed by the statesmen. This field deals with people who are totally dependent on getting help to care for their interests. Being able to adapt help best to personal desires and needs is a fundamental value for human beings to feel free and as independent as possible, regardless of their ability to function. Despite the challenges, it can be seen that the scheme is significantly improved and provides greater legal certainty for vulnerable groups unable to take care of their own rights and interests. In the past, the county office has also been financially strong in the context of the Verjemsreform, among others. to increase the number of added. The next financial year will see a substantial increase in the allocation of 43 million to the defence system. kr. The first step is to enable the mandate to achieve the objectives of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2827	Violence in close relationships is a social problem. It is serious crime that needs to be prevented far better than it is today. Violence and abuse are leading to an increased need for relief measures at school, physical and mental health protection, child protection measures and assistance from crisis centres and an increased need for police resources. In order to prevent more and help more people, it does not keep words, plans or promises. The working party knows that there is a need for a take-off in several disciplines in this field. Those who have been subjected to violence and abuse need to be strengthened in terms of health, community services, child protection and justice. Therefore, the Labour Party proposes a strengthening of the 2018 budget of more than 700 million. kr in fresh means. Where the government is talking about escalating, we deliver in our alternative budget. In addition, we increase the municipality's operating room by 2 billion. kr. Police have taken a significant step in the right direction in the fight against violence in close relations and abuse. But they need increased resources to meet the growing volume of cases that have followed with the detection of multiple cases, and by increasing the level of abuse and sharing of assault material across the network. Children and adults who have experienced abuse or violence shall not have to wait for help and follow-up from society. The Workers' Party believes that access to legal assistance when needed, it's disparately distributed in our society. If you get help, too much depends on what resources you have. Then the distance between having the right and getting the right is going to be too large. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we strengthen legal certainty by prioritising investigations, prosecution authorities and courts. The Labour Party will strengthen the courts by 20 million. kr, compared to the government's proposals, to build up under this important work. The Labour Party notes that the Right Party and the Advance Party choose to demonstrate their achievements over the actual cuts they place on the sector in their draft budget. I understand that, because it is not that the government parties can call their draft budget a strong strengthening of, for example. The courts when they give with one hand and take with the other. The Labour Party will encourage the Right Party and the Advance Party to make what they take visible in the same way that they make visible what they give.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2838	It is only alarming that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are now taking the order to postpone the Emergency Centre. I see it as relatively irresponsible, to say it carefully. I also hope that you are willing to take responsibility – if you get a majority in favour of such a proposal – to weaken Norwegian preparedness for terrorism. It really seems as if the good, important and thorough work that has been done in connection with the Emergency Response Centre has not been carried out. It is such that this project has undergone all required quality assurances, KS1 and KS2. There have been not one but two external quality assurances. The project has been followed by follow-up researchers from the NTNU research programme Concept, which has been approved and authorised – access to all information has been obtained. A wide range of ‘reviews’ have been carried out by external professional experts. Thus, the project has had a much greater external look than is usual. But I record that, despite this, you want an external quality assurance – when the project is so thoroughly reviewed. I would like to dry to say that it is planned for cost control too, which means that you will get an extremely good recovery centre for the money, which also delivers operationally at all levels, based on what has been the prerequisite. This is unlike the red-green and their project. There was reason to ask questions about lack of investigation, lack of quality assurance. Therefore, this government had to scrape the project of the previous government: they had not done homework. This government has done it to the greatest extent possible. But I record that despite that, you want further deferral to do external quality assurances. That's interesting, but there's also reason to warn against the consequences of it, if it were to get a majority in the Storting. Then I register that more from the red-green parties are taking the order to conclude the agreement with the Netherlands on prison places there. That also has to be taken into account. The consequences of increased queues and increased use of smooth cell must be taken into account. It has to be assumed that we will again have prison cows in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2847	At present, there is an important project in the courts: so-called digital courts, where the courts are to be fully digitised. This may help to improve the effectiveness of the courts and make large profits. Nevertheless, there are some aspects of the project that do not keep a goal. It was only the Supreme Court, the Lawyers' Courts and the twelve largest District Courts that were included from the beginning. Now one will also include the District Courts where joint management decisions have been made. This means that most of the District Courts in the country are outside the project per year. today. We don't get a full efficiency gain until all the courts are fully digitised. In addition, it is important that small and medium-sized enterprises should not be penalised. The government has reduced a selection to look at the court structure in Norway. Failure to invest in small and medium-sized districts doesn't have to be an appeal point to put them down afterwards. The bet must come to all courts, so that everyone is satisfied, and not just the largest. The Central Party has proposed an increase of 20 million in its alternative budget. kr in means of operation of the courts. We have proposed to allow all rights to be included in the 2018 digitisation project, as well as strengthening the sound and image trial project in the courts by 2 million. kr. Finally, I would like to raise a matter from my own home country, More and Romesdal. For over 20 years, we've been planning a new warehouse in Molde. But the plan was shattered because of a lack of budget resources. Locals with better security and higher standards are strongly needed. This was a big campaign during the election in the fall, when all parties, including the Right and Advance Party, went on the track and promised funds. It now appears that this is not going to happen again. The centre party has suggested that the funds be brought in, and I hope that a majority in this room will vote for this today, so that we can put this in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2858	First to the Emergency Response Centre – I ask the Minister of Justice to at least read what is in the proposal for a decision of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV: ‘The evaluation shall not delay the progress of the Emergency Response Centre.’ We have not proposed a postponement. We have an equal amount of funding for the Emergency Response Centre within our budget as the majority has. I want to ask the representatives of the Left to notice what the Council of State says. The Council of State appears to be very pleased with the emergency centre as it now exists. If you are going to have a review of the project, including: In the light of the doubts created by his own ministerial council, yes, we must vote in favour of our proposal. Then to the police. I record that the representatives of the government parties want to doubt an animal and poor catch agreement with the Netherlands. What is needed to strengthen criminal justice in Norway is not that agreement. On the contrary, provision is made for more prison sites in Norway, maintenance in Norway and more staff in Norway. As mentioned earlier, we have available capacity in Norway — the same type of prison sites as the ones we send prisoners to in the Netherlands. And for a party like the Progress Party, which usually talks about helping people where they are, it has to be a paradox to maintain an agreement to send ever new prisoners by plane to the Netherlands. What is worrying in Norway's criminal services is the reports from both trustees and staff members that the cuts made in the supply in prisons are at risk of being at least as dangerous to prisoners when they come out as they were when they were put in prison. People I've talked to, who work in prison, say that the environment they work in is getting harder and harder while the tools they have to do something with it are getting fewer and fewer. It is cut in offers such as Alternatives to violence and the cut in offer for sensualism. And the figures presented should be suitable for concern – when the number of reported incidents related to violence and threats has doubled in two years, over a thousand incidents last year related to violence and threats to both employees and prisoners. We need to get a completely different approach in criminal matters than the one we've had in recent years. The cuts that have been made, with the budget for next year, now amount to nearly 200 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2869	It is a great and responsible task to enforce law and justice in a society. Therefore, it is important that all citizens have confidence in the police and our justice system. Such trust depends, among other things, on: Police councils and leaders are honest with the citizens about the follow-up to the changes they are implementing politically. Close-up reform is a centralisation reform. Divi concluded in his evaluation report that the police had objected to calling this reform the ‘near-police reform’, and it was said that everyone sees a centralisation taking place. This centralisation will weaken the prophylactic work of the police and relief services in large parts of our scattered and long-range countries. A key to the successful preventive work of the police and the county council has been that they have added our people to the community and the community centres; they have had good local knowledge of our people and have lived a life close to people in both good and bad days, both in and outside working hours. The former Minister of Justice has stated that the centralisation of the service location should not lead to centralisation of them, that they should move after. The Agreement between the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, dated 17 February 2015, reads on page 7: ‘Police officials and women live widely, so that as many local communities as possible have police officers living in their local environment. In the recruitment process, emphasis is placed on obtaining residence in places where police officers or women do not already live.’ This sounds good, but the problem is that those who are going to hire people in the police department have not heard about this. The words are written in true. My question to the Minister of Justice is: why is this not followed up when it has been promised by the former Minister of Justice and it has been stipulated in the agreement that a police officer should ensure that the police officer is en route spread around and will not be moved after the place of service is moved? I thought it was a neat position to centralize the police, like everything else. It is also a neat position to weaken the preventive work of the police on one of my other priorities to that effect. But it's not neat to do anything other than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2885	I'm very pleased with the contribution to the representative Gimse, where she said we have one of the world's best police training courses. My opinion is that then one has to be careful about messing with that education, because some of the reasons why we have the best police training in the world is the way it is organized, and the location. The police high school is located in the area of the country where we have the most complex crime, where you have the widest experience of building up for those who go to that school, and where you have access to lecturers from the leading and most important institutions, such as the PST, the Police Directorate, the Kripos, the Oslo Police District, etc. You also get an extra large candidate mass to the Police College because of the location in the capital, how many want to train. Most people can also be recruited with a minority background, which is an explicit goal for police training. At the Police College, police students also participate in preparedness in the capital. So they play an important role in object protection, which the government is also concerned about following up on the Commission's 22nd July report. I am also pleased that the representative Gimse said that what you are going to consider is moving the Police College out of Oslo, as opposed to what has been said in the nomination of the members of the Judicial Committee from the Right and the Advance Party. It says on page 39 that they will stress that a new, modern PHS, police high school, is to be located outside Oslo. I was satisfied with Gimse's emphasis on assessing it, and that it is not correct, what is in the setting. I was less satisfied with the Council of State's response, because the Council of State said that it is nothing new to pre-conclusion before an investigation. It was a surprising answer after the Council of State had said the opposite to me in the Questionnaire on 8 March of this year, where he warned against pre-conclusions before this investigation into the Police College was completed. Governments stressed the need to build on professionalism and knowledge and to bring it up first. Then I think it is a lack of logic when you are not surprised that you pre-conclusion before the investigation, so to speak, is started. The Councils of State have inter alia: In a written reply to me, he also announced that he would undergo police training in order to avoid training for many policemen in Norway in the future. I would like to say that with the challenges we face with cybercrime, violence in close relationships, labour-life crime, terror-terrorism, child abuse, i.e. the police have had many new and larger tasks that have come about since two police officers per 1000 were established in 2008, there is every reason now to carry out a new analysis of how much we will need for police officers in the future, and build on it instead of assessing the dwindling of police training.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2904	In Norway, one in 10 women is subjected to rape during their lifetime. It's a number that's often referred to, but do we really understand the human consequences of it? Do we really understand the size of that problem? If one in ten had been without a job, I think it would have been on the front page of all the newspapers every day until the problem was resolved. But unfortunately that kind of attention doesn't mean that one in ten women are exposed to any of the worst things that can happen to a human being. The problem is only becoming more comprehensive when we include several types of violence. Between 75 000 and 150000 persons are exposed to violence in close relations in Norway each year. Many of them are children. The Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association, among other things, refers to violence and abuse as a public health problem. It is the size of this problem that should be addressed. It is important to understand violence and abuse as a matter of structures in society, of balancing power relationships, of gender and equality, because there are women who are hardest hit by violence in close relationships – in addition to children – and the perpetrators of violence are usually men. As long as girls in Norway cannot go to a party without feeling the fear of something happening, equality in Norway is not the goal. As long as women are controlled and subjected to violence by their boyfriends or cohabitants, gender equality in Norway is not the goal. SV has long called for action against violence and abuse. There has been a long fight, for before was much of this looked on as something that was going on inside the house's four walls. It's been a long fight to change attitudes and the political landscape. There is now a stepping-up plan, but SV shares the criticism from the organisations that are working on this, and it is obvious that it is too small. Therefore, SV suggests using 700 million. more than the government on various measures against violence and abuse across different framework areas in the budget, because we see that this is a social problem that requires massive efforts in all the relevant areas, including justice. This includes, inter alia: a national campaign against rape targeting young people, involving 20 million. SEK more for the children's houses, 75 million. NOK more to the intruders, SEK 20 million. SEK more for incest and rape centres and SEK 15 million. kr more to the crisis centres. We do that because we're a feminist party, which sees the extent of this problem, and which takes the consequences of it in terms of prioritizing money. We've moved the landscape before. We've been involved in bringing it up on the political agenda along with the women's movement. Once again, we will move the landscape together, until we do enough to combat violence and abuse in this country and finally can crown us – as we often do – with the title of ‘a gender equality nation’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2917	The representative of Guro Angell Gimse has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2923	The representative, Gjelsvik, blames the government for what he thinks is an increase in violent cases in prisons. We take violent cases in prisons in all seriousness, violence in prison is and has always been a problem. Then we have to figure out if that's how violence has actually increased. I believe that Gülsvik's colleagues in the Center Party, together with the Workers' Party and SV, have also come to realize that in recent years the criminal service has focused a lot on recording the violence, which they have not done before. That's good, but it also means that there may have been great numbers of darkness in the presence of violence in the past. The fact that the increase in reported violence cases has been flattened in 2016 and 2017 also supports this assumption. Whether there has been an increase or not, the Right and the Government work for the prevention of violence in prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2928	I'm not very easily touched to the ordinary, but I'm almost a little moved by hearing the Right Party and the Advance Party talk about these big bets within the police, courts and criminal justice. It is almost as if they have not imposed these levels in the areas of large cuttings, which means cutting both in quantity and not least in quality of the services they are to perform on behalf of society — both within the police, within the courts and in criminal matters. That they then dare to stand here high and dark and present this in a completely different way, is strange. Anyone can ask themselves – look at Retriever at Stortinget. All the feedback you get on Retriever every day says something about a completely different reality in these three areas. A person experiences difficult times because the government cuts, even though they claim to be betting. This isn't about fighting crime, it's the opposite. I have been in the Justice Committee for four years myself, and I have to say that the continuation of government's cut policy worries me. I'm recording that the police, the criminal services and the courts around the country are concerned about this situation. Finally, I want to get into the criminal justice system. The fact that the left now goes in to stop the imprisonment in the Netherlands surprises me. The left shall engage in government negotiations with a more social liberalist direction in criminal matters. Is this the new social liberalist direction for the Left? Then it's no wonder that the Left leaders around the country are resigning and resigning because of concerns they have – yes, it actually shows that in some way it's true. Today, the Left was able to arrange for the settlement of the settlement in the Netherlands, as was said for four years when I sat in the committee together with the party's representatives. The story after the red-green government was a significantly reduced settlement queue, compared to when the government took over Stoltenberg. We had 2,566 in queue when we took over, and when we ended it was 1,470. We increased the capacity by 750 places, 513 of which were prison sites — prison sites in Norway, in Norwegian municipalities, Norwegian counties, by employees in Norway, who have a great heart for those who have their lives there. In addition, we provided better content in housing, work, education and, in particular, night work. It enabled those who were in prison to master their lives after atonement. That's what's most important, it's about preventing crime and making sure those who have their lives there today can come out and meet their neighbors and their families in a good way, and make sure they can have a life without crime in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2941	I didn't really draw myself to answer the last speaker. There I think I just refer to the post I made earlier about Norwayrhaven. It's opaque to my vision, so I'm not going to repeat it any more. I understand that there has been an atmosphere here, around Taraldrud. Then I think it's okay to comment on something more about it. There has been an important matter in the election campaign, it has been an important matter now, and it is going to be an important matter also in the future. I think one thing we all agree on – I'm a little unsure about whether it applies to everyone, but at least it concerns most of the storage representatives – is that we need a emergency centre. I just want to say that in the meetings I have had with the local people, I do not – unless I have memory loss – meet anyone who has said that they do not want the Taraldrud Emergency Centre to come to Taraldrud. The people I've met in Upper Farm say they're preparing for the country, the country needs the emergency centre, but they want it to be noise-free, and they want the plagues that can come as a result of the center to be minimized and preferably eliminated completely. It's been their entrance to this. I'm not going to go good for my quotes from here, but it might well be that I've expressed myself in the vicinity of it, and that I might have expressed myself just like that. I've also delivered it. I have expressed it this way to the local population that I will ensure that the government engages in dialogue with them to ensure that there are noise mitigation measures – because they want dialogue with the government and because they want noise abatement measures. So it says here that we have agreed that the government should: ‘in the construction of a new emergency centre on Taraldrud, ensure that residents and neighbours are involved in the work of adequate noise abatement measures’. I feel like I've delivered. Contrary to this, the opposition is lifting up its proposal. Just listen to this: ‘The government is asked to carry out an external evaluation of the further progress in the construction of the National Police Emergency Centre on Taraldrud, with a view to improving the project in order to strengthen national preparedness, improve training opportunities for the police and reduce local community distress. The evaluation shall not delay the progress of the emergency centre.’;» Explain this to me, President: we must therefore have an external evaluation, but it should not delay progress. This will bring less distress, strengthen national preparedness and improve training opportunities for the police, but it will not delay progress. They therefore believe that their proposal, which is almost impossible to understand what really means, is better, while I want to maintain the text that I read and that we stand for: we need to ensure that residents and neighbours are involved, and we need to work with adequate noise abatement measures. It's really quite a breakthrough for the appeal I made to the voters and the residents of Upper Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2962	The President will point out that she has no plans to explain anything but that all speech should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2967	I would like to begin by saying that today I have truly hurt by former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum. He agreed to set a standard for the criminal service that was good. He was a foreman to make criminal care a more humane place to be. I understood that Dørum was against going into the government. I get that. I can think that maybe some of his fears were that the justice policy would be some of the first thing that was thrown at the boat, and we see that the result today. So I want to say that in this debate, the Right is trying to talk about the Workers' Party as if the Workers' Party has not had any alternatives in criminal matters. It is a well-known strategy to attack where one is the weakest: if there is something this debate has shown, it is that the only right is concerned about criminal care is numbers, cells and how one should get the number down – not a word about content, as far as I have heard. We see a serious increase in the number of violence and threat incidents. We see that we invest billions of dollars in jobs abroad in a period of high unemployment in Norway. And I have to be allowed to say that I hope the representative Frölich is more despicable in his profession than as a representative of big business. He stands on this pulpit and says that the Labour Party is without alternatives in terms of criminal custody. It's directly wrong. The Labour Party has had alternatives in all its budgets. We have proposed to build prisons in Norway; we proposed to start from day one. In addition, both the High Representative Frølich, the Minister of Justice and the Government have had alternatives. The ski prison and the Halden prison could be expanded approximately in line with the number of prison sites they have chosen to rent in the Netherlands. So that story the government parties here are trying to convey is completely wrong. The tax havens are supposed to be financed, as we know, and we see that in the criminal justice system there are 112.8 million. kr was cut from 2014 to 2017, and SEK 35 million. kr in the year’s budget. What the right isn't talking about is the criticism from the recruitment agencies – now I'm going to try to read without a comma, as the Left does – the Directorate of Criminal Affairs and more, which is criticising the government. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2978	The number is out. The representative Geir Inge Lien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2985	It's going to be $300 million. kr per year for the purchase of prison places in the Netherlands. We in the Center Party would rather use the funds to build prisons here in Norway. We have a lot of examples of that, and I'll give you one thing: Sunbathing differs from having fewer prison places per capita. The Center Party has had funds in its alternative budgets for Sunnmøre for several years now. A new Sunnmore settlement center would probably give far more prison places than the 18th century old Ålesund prison could give. It has expired. These include: the need for custody sites. Today, a prisoner’s transport to Bergen has to be carried — large, unnecessary costs that could have been avoided if the center was built. I'm currently disappointed in the Left. I'm also disappointed that the government hasn't added funds to this this year, and encourage them to put it in place and not use the money in places in the Netherlands. [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e2994	The number is out. The representative Peter Frölich has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3001	I heard it being mentioned by the representative Henriksen about exorcism, etc. The representative can start by quoting me correctly. I have never claimed that the Workers' Party has not had alternatives. It's just that the alternatives to the Workers' Party when it comes to getting more places of settlement have been the traditional, the well-tested, the ones that have never given results, the ones that never fixed the pay queues. It was building a little bit here and a little bit there. When this government took over, it was immediately accepted for duplication, more electronic settlement – footlink soning – and an agreement was signed with the Netherlands. There are measures as monks, unlike traditional measures. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3008	The representative Maria-Karine Aasen-Svensrud has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3013	I drew a brief note about violence and threats in prisons. I think some of the representatives of the Right should talk more to the NFF – not the footballers, but the Norwegian Fengsels and the Free Care Associations. When employees explain that there is an increase in violence and threats, it must be taken seriously. I find it worrying that the government parties seem to hide the concerns of employees behind the possibility that this is only due to more effective reporting. I hope this does not reflect an easy-to-use attitude on the part of the government parties regarding the feedback and concerns of employees for and at their own workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3021	The representative after the representative from the Right and the Advance Party boasts of the efforts of the police, and then I almost have to take the floor. The Gjørv Commission concluded not that the police districts were too small, but that they did not talk enough. Nevertheless, the government’s response was a structural reform. And next autumn, we're expecting another structural reform in criminal custody. Now it's time to put people and security in front of bureaucrats and structures. In several places, police staff are concerned about how preparedness in their region is being scarcely resourced. The government takes the number of people to heart and forgets the geography. Doesn't the security of all the country's inhabitants mean anything no matter where you live? When police officers have to move out due to cases of e.g. domestic violence, they are put in a terrible situation. In greasy strokes, they have to ask whether the situation is bad enough, whether the crime is serious enough for them to spend more hours driving the person in the arrest, or whether they should not. In central terms, they need to assess whether they have the capacity to investigate this particular case, or perhaps to resolve it because of another case that has a higher priority. Police cars may be on wheels, but not the arrest. And it has to be enough of that to investigate and solve the issues that the police have on the table. In that case, the smaller central districts need the means to manipulate the services and premises they need, and the more central means to follow up all the crimes they have to investigate. The number of detentions in the Oslo police district is serious. The government’s ‘large’ commitment to the police does not increase preparedness and security when most of the posts are in the Police Directorate, the increased number of posts cannot be filled because there is no means of paying them next year and the money goes to efficiency measures at the expense of free resources, when the increased appropriations go up in smoke because the expenditure on pensions, which was previously in another budget line, is now to be taken by the police’s operation or when the animal police have no case to settle because the Food Authority’s budget does not allow for supervision. If we are to have a real commitment to the police, the Central Party must simply take control: less reporting requirements and detailed management, more resources for prevention and crime-fighting measures throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3034	It is tempting to say that pride stands for fall. In any case, it is certain that the Ministry of Justice has been and is frustrated by the resistance they constantly get to their concept at Taraldrud. But they will still have that resistance, all the time they hold fast to a concept that is incompatible with the location of the centre right next to a residential area. If one had been willing to change something on the concept, so that it was compatible with being at a residential area, everyone would say: Yes, build this, get started, we need it, it must happen now! But a concept has been chosen that makes it painful for the local population, and it will be frustrating for them as long as the concept continues. Now it's like that the name ‘responsive centre’ is a bit misleading. It's not like someone's sitting there on standby, like it's doing in a fire station. One-third of the Special Forces team are always prepared with the Oslo Police, one-third are free, and one-third are on Taraldrud. In this respect, one should look at the possibility of, for example: to include the field of fire. I myself have been visiting the emergency centre of the police in London. They have no open-air firing range, and yet the emergency centre is in the middle of an industrial area. I think that this should be done, as the local people also want, and as a whole the political environment actually wants, you have to be willing to look at something on the concept to make it work. It is very important to stress that when we want to look at this, we also ask that it should not be postponed. But as it is now, it is not compatible with people living nearby. Then it's tempting to ask what Abid Raja thinks he'll get out of the dialogue with the Ministry of Justice and the local population that hasn't already been addressed many, many, many times.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3043	Representative Abid Q. Raja has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3048	The representative Kari Henriksen is wrong about all his claims on the Left. I thought at first to give a case information: She is obviously in the belief that we have taken a position to go to government. We haven't. We have taken a position to negotiate whether or not to go to government. Then I would also like to assure the representative Kari Henriksen that Dørum is very pleased with the police reform and the current judicial policy of the Left, so she does not have to throw anything at the boat on Left's behalf. As for Taraldrud, talk about handing over the proposal! It is therefore an evaluation of progress – which should lead to less nuisance – and should not delay progress. We're approaching Christmas, so it's probably what strengthens the belief in Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3057	The representative Jan Bøhler has spoken twice before and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3062	I would like to make a brief comment on a verbal proposal by the majority in the Committee today, that the Stortinget asks the government to open negotiations with Frontex to extend the Norwegian contribution to the Mediterranean operation Triton. So it's the Olympic Commander ship that now contributes to the Mediterranean. It's important, not just because it's about saving human lives, but also because you've been focusing more and more on stopping human traffickers, where you work with Italy and in nine months this year, you've stopped 247 human traffickers. It's a contribution that Frontex is busy with. The representative of Skei Grande took up here in Stortinget in an oral Question Time that there was no request from Frontex for an extension of the contribution. But in a letter dated 20 November this year, Klaus Rösler, Operation Director of Frontex, asks for an extension of the Norwegian contribution. The proposal to resume negotiations will also not lead to budgetary implications, in such a way that this can be resolved in different ways within the Frontex framework. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3073	That's it. The next speaker is Nils Kristen Sandtrøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3078	Visible and accessible, local anchoring and close contact with the surrounding environment — there is agreement at Stortinget on the development of the police in the future. You ask people in Hedmark and Uppland, I think there are very few who could have guessed that there are these goals the Norwegian democracy has decided to be leading. On the contrary, there are many who are deeply concerned and despaired because they now experience smaller policemen where they live. We should have more policemen where people live. In Engerdal, more specifically on Drivsjö, a private guard has been set up because the police are not present. In the same area this summer, there was crime, and it took so long before the police came, that people were completely confused. In Trysil and Hafjell — important ski resorts in Norway — population increases significantly in parts of the winter season. The police are struggling because there are no policemen present. The working party wishes to follow up what has been decided upon in the Stortinget. That's why we're giving 200 million. kr extra for more police outside. It makes a difference. As a man-made man-in-law in Trysil, he said to the Eastlander on 21 November: we really hope that this draft budget will be adopted. All resources come along well. In Norway, we have a common value view that we should have security and well-being across the country. The follow-up to the police reform has been so weak that it violates what we perceive as an important part of how we establish our society: security throughout the country. For this reason, the Right Party and the Advance Party now have a great responsibility in government for the next few years to actually follow up on what has been agreed in the Stortinget: visible and accessible, local anchoring and close contact with the surrounding environment. We've seen that a little bit of that. We expect more in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3089	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has had the word twice in the past and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3094	The debate is approaching the end. Unfortunately, no matter how you twist and twist it, you have to cut in the courts in 2018, in criminal matters, there will be a lot more time, in the police districts there will be less room for action. The position can repeat it as much as it wants. It's just to go and see in the setting, look at the numbers. The situation will not improve. When it comes to ABE cuts and efficiency improvements, it shouldn't be the first line, it's been said, but we know it does. Should we tell people in criminal custody and in the police that they're going to jump faster? Unfortunately, we know that the outcome will show that it will be necessary both to implement the police reform and to improve the quality of criminal services. Right-wing Justice Spokesman, Peter Frölich, often leans on percentages, but behind the percentages there are people, and police districts, courts and criminal services are in no way budget winners in 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3101	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3107	I would like to thank you for a good debate, but I think it's a little scary that the government parties and the settlement partners make it sound as if a reconciliation queue is the only thing that determines whether you have a good or a bad situation in Norwegian criminal care. I want to take an example from the NRK opinion, which illustrates a little bit how reality is different. Kristine Petersen is a prison officer in Bergen prison. She wrote in her opinion: ‘We prison officers no longer have time to do our job.’ At the same time, the Minister of Justice wrote on the Opinion that renting prisons has helped to make it possible to do good rehabilitation work in Norwegian prisons. Here, then, the Minister of Justice and a prison officer in Bergen have a completely different sense of reality. The representative Angell Gimse said there are few or no doubles. No one's at least not right. In Bergen prison, there are 14 doubles. It's not manning that equals there's 28 prisoners on 14 cells, it's still manning as if there were 14 prisoners on 14 cells. So we have a job to do, and I would like the government parties to recognise it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3124	It's not right, as some people point out and try to give the impression, that for government parties it's only about numbers and queues and counting people in line. There were good reasons why we had to put Norwayrhaven in place. It was about the victims who met their attackers before they came in to the atonement – while they were waiting to come in to the atonement. Norway was criticized by the United Nations Torture Committee for having people on smooth cell for too long, because we did not have enough room to place people in prison. There was a situation in which it was absolutely necessary to clean up. This government did. Then it's amazing that we have to be criticised for having, for a temporary period – while we get what we need of sufficient capacity in the country, because that's what we're going to get – solve a social problem. It probably tells us about an opposition that doesn't have much to criticize. That's what I see going on in this debate, that the visions of the red-green parties seem to be completely absent. We are only talking about budgetary matters, about more money for both the one and the other, which can actually be exceeded when we are operating with alternative budgeting and not having to take responsibility for it. But there is therefore a context in this policy, and this government provides the greatest possible extent in the field of emergency and throughout the criminal chain. Then it's a little strange when the Workers' Party, SV and the Central Party try to give the impression that the proposal for an external evaluation of the National Emergency Response Centre will not lead to a postponement. Of course it will lead to postponement – maybe two years. We cannot carry out an external evaluation without having to put the project on hold. Otherwise it doesn't have much to do, I'd say. So then the parties who believe this must take responsibility for postponing the construction of the National Emergency Response Centre for maybe two years, thus weakening Norwegian preparedness for terrorism. I think it's strange, and I ask questions about whether you take over the consequences you're willing to create to act populist.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3133	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before, and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3138	First, to the representative Raja and his fig leaf — enough noise-reducing measures that have been given to the government. If that proposal related to the Emergency Response Centre were to be effective, it would at least have to be agreed that it would involve additional noise abatement measures. But such a proposal was just promoted and voted on last Monday. The Central Party voted in favour of this. The left voted against it. So to the Minister of Justice, who says that the proposal for an external evaluation will involve two years of postponement. No, the proposal states that this should be done in parallel with the further process. However, it is also important to include the uncertainty associated with the project and the priorities of the project which his own ministerial council has contributed to by saying that there has not been a dietary analysis and that there may be other measures in the field of preparedness that should be given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3145	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3161	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 7 and 8 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3192	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3201	As the rapporteur on these matters, I would first like to thank the Committee for its good work on them. First, it's in its place to make some history. The care allowance scheme has been for a year for those who are to replace the employee income for the care of a sick child for a limited period of time. For those who have needed more than that, there has been a care allowance that has been the solution. With the Robert Eriksson of the Advance Party in the government, it was speeding up an expansion and an improvement in the care scheme. The blue-blue government has presented – and has been introduced from October this year – a significant extension of the regime, an extension we have fought for for many years, but for which the red-green government did not show the same commitment. Now it's the way to get a care allowance if you care for a seriously ill child. Children who need to have their parents in a health institution or who need continuous supervision and care are covered by the new scheme. The old scheme was perceived as unfair and unpredictable. Lasting sick children fell out of the scheme, there were strict disease requirements, and the age limit was 12 years. The new scheme provides care for twice as many families. One actually talks about 8 000 to 9 000 more children who get the support it is to have their parents' safe care. There are families who have previously gone into and out of the scheme. The scheme now includes long-term sick children, the strict disease requirement is relaxed, and the age limit has increased to 18 years. We also introduce an exception rule after 1 300 days in the event of a life-threatening disease. But this debate is primarily about seriously ill children and their families – people, not millions, as the Prime Minister would say. It might be a little strange that I have to start the post that way, because it's obvious that everyone who's here is trying to find the best solution for those families who have a seriously ill child. At the same time, much of the debate has been about money — how much, how long, who qualifies, and for some how much this will cost. For me, it's about society taking care of those who need it the most. It's about supporting families, while we're very clear that care money doesn't solve all the problems, because care money doesn't make any children healthy, care money helps families themselves to give their children the care and care they need. These families deserve all praise and honor for the efforts they make. I don't think anyone who hasn't been in the same situation himself, fully understands how these things are, and what it's like to become an involuntary expert on illness and care, as these parents become. We know, however, that those who have sick children are often put under enormous pressure themselves. Many with sick children get sick and tired themselves. The longer the kids are sick, the greater the risk to the family. In this case, the opposition has taken on a role which is to give the most to those affected, and perhaps that is right. Even I'm not sure if it's good that Mom and Dad get paid to be out of work, maybe as long as they're 18 years old. I'm not sure if it's good for the family that mom or dad spends all his time, year after year, nurturing her child. But I'm sure of one thing: we can't just adopt such a proposal without looking at the consequences of it. That the public has a responsibility to set up for those who are affected is quite obvious, but it is right to give 100 pst. wages and salaries of parents up to 18 years of age? Is it right to introduce a benefit that can be provided to families throughout the EEA area after only four weeks of work in Norway, which may mean that a Lithuanian worker working with a seriously ill child can receive as much as half a million dollars of Norway for 18 years? Will parents with sick children stop at the back of the queue when applying for a job when the child has started to recover? If we introduce a state allowance – because that is what this discussion is really about now – how will it interfere with municipal responsibility? There are many unexplained aspects of this matter. We all want the best care for sick children, we all want parents to be able to care for sick children. I am pleased that we have introduced a care allowance scheme that is twice as good as the previous one, which doubles as many are covered, and that twice as much money is paid out as before. The system today is a very good one. Fortunately, most people who experience a seriously ill child will be covered by this new scheme. The opposition seems to have forgotten that they would not improve this scheme in eight years in government. Instead, the opposition chooses to propose an extension, almost without delimitation in time, without knowing the consequences, for 18 years and in some cases more. The opposition chooses to make concrete proposals entirely without considering that the proposals may have unintended negative consequences, and I think the proposal to do so without an investigation is irresponsible. At the same time, I'm more than happy to get all the sides of the proposal on the table, and that way we can do what's right. I would like to address the proposals which the Progress Party is behind in case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3233	The representative Atle Simonsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3238	Let me thank the proposers for addressing this important matter. When the Storting examined proposals for changes to the care scheme in the previous period, all batches were satisfied that several people were given access to care. There were 8 000 to 9 000 new recipients, as was said here, but there were still some very vulnerable users who were not included, namely those who have long-term ill children with high care needs. It is hoped that today's proceedings will ensure that they will also be covered hereafter. It's not very many, but it's all the more important for them. The Labour Party agrees with the government that all schemes, including the care scheme, must have a framework. The question is where the limits will go. In her reply to the Committee, the Council of State says that she will recall that it was a unanimous increase that decided to replace the former care allowance scheme with the new scheme in spring 2017. It's a truth with modifications. The Labour Party promoted two proposals at previous reading. One was that exemptions from the 18-year-old age limit were to be made in order to receive care allowances for people with developmental disabilities. The second was that parents of children who have had a serious life-threatening illness and who have used up the right to a care allowance should be given a new period of care if the child has a relapse or a new diagnosis that triggers entitlement to a care allowance. Both of these proposals were defeated. Then we voted in favour of the majority position at the time, as the rest of the Storting did, but that doesn't mean that we thought it was an optimal solution. In the meantime there has been a choice, the Stortinge has a new composition and the government parties Right and the Progress Party is weakened. The batches requested by another device on the care allowance scheme have been strengthened. It opens up new opportunities to strengthen the care scheme. We saw it in the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. The care allowance scheme was increased by 61 million. kr, and the majority are going to cover a coverage of 100 pst. for the whole period of 1,300 days, instead of now, a cut from 100 pst. to 66 pst. after one year. The working party is behind the budgetmates in this respect. Moreover, we are very pleased that our proposal from the previous period to exempt children with mental retardation from the 18-year-old age is now included in the budgetary agreement. The taskbar has been an argument for the government to give 100 pst. coverage. The Labour Party agrees that it will pay to work, and recalls that the working line was a term introduced on our guard already under the third government of Gro Harlem Brundtland, with Grete Knudsen as Social Minister, in the first half of the 1990s. According to our definition, the workline should be a right and an opportunity. Under bourgeois governments, the content is more twisted towards being a whip and a penalty, including the loss of rights, and we also see it in this matter of care allowance. The working party regrets that. This is about families with children in an extreme situation, it's about life and death. Together with the Centre Party and the SV proposers, the Workers' Party is behind the Committee's position, where we want to close the gaps that remain after the budgetary conciliation. This applies primarily to the exemption from the five-year rule. It shall also apply, after the Committee has been set up, to chronically ill children, in line with the proposal we made during the previous period. Care must be taken not to determine whether the disease is acute or chronic. The proof was given when Stortinget arranged the hearing on the proposal for a representative. Heavy medical settings gave clear feedback: for some, it is essential that parents are present, both at home and at hospital. In complicated diagnosis, it's the parents who sometimes have the best knowledge, and it can actually be about life or death. In such hearings we get factual input, as well as in this case, and it therefore makes a huge impression when parents who live in an exceptional state 24 hours a day break in tears during the hearing and ask how we think they should manage when the care money falls away. They would give anything to go to work, but they can't. It's about life or death. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV promote proposals that also take account of these parents. The Right Party and the Advance Party are opposed. What the left does, we don't know. The Christian People's Party is promoting proposals in the right direction. It takes a little more time than our proposal, but if our original proposal falls, we will therefore vote subsidiaryly for the Christian People's Party. It's second best, and we still have time before the first five-year period expires. Then I would like to ask a brief question to the rapporteur, who said that one had not addressed the negative consequences of the majority's proposal. But where today's position is consistent with § 9-10 new third paragraph and with § 9-12 first paragraph, they vote tomorrow for exactly the same thing, promoted by themselves, so I don't fully understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3257	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3262	I don't think anyone who hasn't experienced it himself knows how demanding it is to experience that your own child gets seriously ill. Therefore, the introduction of care allowance as a temporary compensation for lost labour income has been important. But many felt that the old scheme was unfair and unpredictable. Therefore, the government extended the care allowance scheme considerably, allowing about 9 000 more children and families to qualify for it. The right has always meant that the state should not provide everything for everyone, but be limited to a lot for those who need it the most. At the same time as we extended the system, we thought that the device had to be changed, not only because more people get, but also because more people get to be in the system much longer than before. Care allowance shall compensate for the loss of labour income in the event of absence from work in connection with the illness of the child. However, parents of highly nurturing children should also have the same opportunity as others to participate in working life and to have communities and master areas other than the family. We know, and research shows, that it's good for the family to keep the relationship with the world of work. It is good to have a different community outside the family, even when – or perhaps especially when – you have nurturing children. Labour relations prevent isolation and contribute to social inclusion. Research shows that relatives are particularly vulnerable to physical and mental health disorders. Many get burned out when they have over time had 100 pst. care for a seriously ill child who needs continuous care and care. Children may also benefit from having contact with school or kindergarten in good times. In the interests of families, it has therefore been important and proper to limit the amount of care and to ensure a link with the working life of the family. Today, the Working Party and SV go away from this line. In a letter to the Stortinget dated 1 February 2011, Minister for Labour and Inclusion Hanne Bjurstrøm wrote that it was a prerequisite that the needs for services were met by adapted municipal services in cooperation with the parents, so that parents can participate in the professional life. She wrote: «In permanent cases, care would involve the risk of parents falling out of the labour market.» Thus, dependants are burned out, subjected to physical and mental distress and are at risk of falling out of work. Instead of setting up the care allowance scheme with restrictions to provide incentives to maintain a work relationship, the Workers' Party and SV enter to compensate for loss of income for up to 18 years. The consequences of this have not been investigated. So the working party and SV send out a clear signal that parents who can be at home should be at home, instead of keeping a work relationship. The setting argues that care allowance is provided only for shorter periods. But it's by old rules, before the new care scheme. In the past, parents to long-term ill children were only entitled to care allowance in very narrow and short-term cases. Now that we have included long-term ill children and eased the disease requirement, many more parents will fill the terms of care until the child is 18 years old and beyond. It hasn't been investigated for gender equality. For who's staying home? It's 80 pst per day. women taking out care allowances. What are the economic consequences for their pension? What consequences for the family economy in the long term? What are the implications for integration? What are the consequences for the relationship with neighbouring social benefits, municipal services and their robustness? This is, in fact, the introduction of a state care allowance for economically active people. As a responsible party, right-wing support cannot be given to this, when we already know that parents too are particularly vulnerable to physical and mental health problems, are burned out and fall out of work. It is not always best for the child or parents that the parents are responsible for all care over a long period of time. It goes to the right, just for the sake of the families involved. At the same time, the Right-wing proposals of the Progress Party on further investigation of different schemes support.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3286	I would like to thank the SV proposers who have promoted the matter. It's got a lot of people involved. Care allowance is important, in the case of children with severe illness. When this case was dealt with in Stortinget in our company, the Centre Party had proposals for improvements. Consultation within the Committee has shown the need for further improvements, and parents who have seriously ill children should avoid additional financial concerns. When children get sick, the community should set up. The need for care and care of sick children shall be fully covered by the community. The current system will only extend the care provision if the child is in need of continuous supervision and care because of life-threatening illness or injury. This does not apply if the disease or damage is permanent. So a child may be in danger of life because of his chronic illness, but it has not been found worthy of the exception. The centre party, after extensive consideration in the Committee, is in favour of several legislative changes that will provide a more economically secure system for parents with seriously ill children. With regard to the new third paragraph of Section 9-10, concerning persons with a developmental disability who need continuous supervision and care because of life-threatening or other very serious illness or injury, care is provided on our proposal, regardless of the age limit of 18. It is very special that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the vote go against this amendment, which is identical to that of the Finanzcommittee Innst. 4 L, which will be treated tomorrow, under Chapter 10.4 Care allowance. Under the budgetary agreement, where the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are supporting the draft law, it is therefore quite special when the previous speaker, Mr Heidi Nordby Lunde, says that the Right cannot support the budget agreement and argues that it has not been investigated, with consequences and with figures from the Kaasa Committee, which is based on large, staggering extra expenditure. Furthermore, the Centre Party is in favour of improvements related to the delivery of care allowance of 100 pst. after § 9-15 for up to 1 300 days per child. Today, the period is 260 days with 100 pst. We also have proposals for waiting days funded by the employer. Until the amendment of the care allowance scheme from 1 October 2017, there were seven waiting days. The centre party sees it as right to have five waiting days per child before the start of the care period, i.e. five days per child for the entire care period of up to 18 years. In this way, disease for all children during this five-day period will be treated equally. This will also facilitate the use of the care scheme and reduce the expenditure of the country. Furthermore, if both parents have the right to be present with the child at the time of his/her stay in a health institution, it is counted by one social benefit day, not two, because there is an extra vulnerable period for both children and parents. Equal rights apply to employees and maritime operators. Whether or not to play event sounds. 59 L should fall by voting, the Central Party will vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Christian People's Party No. 1-3 to Innst. 60 S, which relates to the same reality. And further, the Central Party supports proposal No. 2, from SV, to Innst. 59 L, concerning the date of entry into force of the amendment. In the case of Innst. 61 L, for which I am the case rapporteur, there is an overall proposal on changes in laws. There are a number of minor corrections about incubators, etc. by a unanimous committee as well as four legislative amendments related to the budget of the Labour and Social Committee in 2018, which are discussed in the Stortinget on Friday 15th of this month. I will not go into the various legislative changes, it will be discussed in the budgetary procedure on 15 December. This will highlight the realities that will have implications for the law, and the position of the lots is reflected in the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3315	First of all, I want to send a big thank you to parents with seriously ill children who in the midst of life situations are so tough that it is difficult for us to imagine, fighting a hard fight to fix the gaps that today's government introduced in the care scheme. With heavy support from medical professionals and interest groups, they have shared their stories. The stories have been shared by listening, as chronicles in the newspapers, as e-mails to us magnification representatives and in social media. A mother told me that they were at the hospital last week talking to the doctor about instability and absence. They discussed whether care money could be an alternative, but they agreed not to search now because the child is not so sick that it's about life. They should not spend their days in the care scheme in case it should not be changed today. Another mother writes that the good they won't survive. They know that there will be new, tough thanks, that there may be a phase of testing medicine, and then the soothing phase comes where their son will die. Of course, they're worried: are they going to afford to be there at the end and give the son security when he's going to face death? There is no such insecurity care scheme to create. When we put forward proposals to improve the care allowance scheme only a few months after its signature was amended, there were three problems with the scheme that came into force on 1 October: The parent went from 100 to 66 pst. income after one year of care allowance, leading to people becoming poorer in an already difficult situation. The opening for more than 1,300 days was not only strict, but also profoundly discriminatory and unethical. Children with life - threatening and chronic diseases who still need parental care receive no help. Parents of debilitated children under 18 years of age did not receive any care allowance. These are people who are very vulnerable, and who need their closest companion during hospitalization and serious sick leave. These three holes in the scheme were described in our hearing, but were not taken seriously by the government. When Stortinget adopted the conversion of the care allowance scheme in the spring of 2017, it was co-ordinated. However, we recall that SV, at the same time, put forward a more comprehensive proposal that was supported by the Christian People's Party and the Environmental Party of Dei Green. We are behind a joint proposal with the Labour Party and the Center Party. When, after careful consideration, we present our proposal as a legislative proposal rather than a call for proposals, it is because it is decisive for the families who are the victims of the care scheme, to have this matter resolved and to be sure that they do not have to sell the house or see for themselves a future with an economic insecurity situation. This could be explained to them today if the Christian People's Party had been with us and voted for our proposal. That we have to wait for another round of legislation from the government is not advisable all the time the government has a questionable story when it comes to following up appeals from the Storting. If the Christian People's Party now does not vote for our crystal-clear legislative change, but rather makes content-like proposals, the Christian People's Party must promise to secure and follow up the responsibility of the government for this actually being carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3342	Our children are the dearest thing we have, and when they're hit by serious illness, it's one of the most difficult things we meet as parents. It's a destiny that can affect more. Therefore, it is important that we have good support arrangements for those who experience something you should have been besides, to have to care for a seriously ill child. The care allowance scheme that we have had so far had many weaknesses. For example, parents with chronically ill children had not a care allowance, but was referred to schemes as a care allowance. In addition, the scheme was unpredictable and several experienced unfair treatment when applying for care. The change in the care scheme introduced by the Government Parties and the Left earlier this year was an important improvement to the existing scheme. The number of cases covered by care allowance was doubled and, after the scheme entered into force on 1 October of this year, as many as 9000 more families could receive care allowance. This represented an increase of 574 million. kr. That's the biggest amount of care money in years. At the same time, we must recognise that the changes are not positive for everyone. A time-accounting system was put in place that made it more difficult for lone parents and families with mentally retarded children who need care because of life-threatening or other very serious illness, taking them at the 18-year-old age limit. That, in addition, the aid was reduced from 100 pst. to 66 pst. like other benefits, this made it more difficult for parents who have to be at home for a limited time to care for their own children. When the Left in negotiations with the government parties worked to improve the scheme, we got an important exception for the time account for parents with children who are seriously ill. It was an exception that we thought was right and important in order not to make everyday life more difficult than necessary. We're all concerned that when a child is sick, that's what you should be able to pay attention to. This was important for us to do something about, and in the 2018 budget, the care allowance scheme was reinforced by another 59 million. kr. The purpose was to keep 100 pst. payment and reintroduction of the 18-year age-limit for parents with disabled children. In addition to its alternative government budget, the Left proposed to improve the single parent scheme — one of the groups hit hardest by the reform. In the debate, we have seen how poor municipal support for parents who have to care for their own children can be. Small municipalities with long economic needs and a heavy load of tasks have struggled to deliver a good offer to parents around the country. And parents experience that the gap between care pay and care pay is great. This also underlines the need for further municipal reform and further improvement of the municipality economy in Norway. On the day we can say that we have a good municipal offer throughout the country, we can also say from ourselves many of the concerns about the state care scheme. What we want is a care allowance scheme that also respects the rights of self-employed workers. That is why today we are voting in favour of the proposal for Decision B. I want to end the article by thanking the parents who have told us their story and the challenges they are facing. They deserve our respect and we listen to what they have to say. As elected representatives, we also have to make our decisions based on society, but the consideration of the individual's rights must always weigh heavily. I hope that today we can contribute to a better care arrangement for those who go through the hardest of everyday life. We owe them generosity and a liberal society like Norway. Then I will give an explanation of vote because we are not on the committee. As I have indicated, we shall vote in favour of the proposal for Decision B, but in addition we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, which has been distributed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3364	This is one of the most important things Stortinget deals with in the fall. It is a matter of human dignity, and it affects the ability and ability of families to care for their sick children. They do a great job for society and a great job for their kids, and I often ask myself the question, what is the alternative? Very often it would be an institution, which wouldn't necessarily be the best thing for the child – I think the families are best themselves to figure out – but it might not be the best thing for society either if you think financially. The costs could have been much higher, so when you talk about the costs for the state, I ask big questions about the fainting amounts that are being produced. And when we refer to the Kaasa committee, we also know that the calculations that were made there were made on the basis of a completely different and different scheme than the one that actually applies today. So this is a system that is incredibly important both for society and for families. For the Christian People's Party, it has been an important matter to work with. During the period 2009–2013, we proposed extending the scheme. Fortunately, enlargement came now in ours – I thought it was important, it includes more – but we voted against the restrictions that went both on compensation and on time. That is why, two months ago, we were already promoting proposals to ask the government to come up with a separate matter on the welfare system, precisely to make improvements. Then we included the main points in the budget negotiations, because we knew that with the entry into force of the scheme now in October, one would already fall from 100 pst in October next year. to 66 pst. compensation. The change here, we're proud to have been added to the budget. For the Christian People's Party, it's about looking at the care scheme as a salary, not as a social security or as any other health insurance scheme where one goes down to 66 pst. after one year. With regard to the 18-year-old limit for families with mentally retarded children, we thought it was important that they should be cared for even when they are 18 years old. Now what I want to call the very unfortunate five-year limitation, which already makes some families uncertain about being able to take out social benefits. The rule is also contrary to the regulation on children in hospitals, which says that children have the right to have at least one parent with them during hospitalisation, and in the event of a permanent serious illness, both parents should be able to be with the child. The current system shall only apply beyond five years in the case of life-threatening diseases or non-permanent injuries. A child with a permanent illness where there is a life-threatening deterioration will not be entitled to care allowance. We believe that this is both unfortunate and incomprehensible. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will give great credit to SV for their work both in drafting and in forming a majority around the proposal for a representative. The proposal as SV, the Christian People's Party and the Environment Party The Greens were alone in the last period, now has a majority. I fully understand that the families concerned wanted the bulk of the population to vote in favour of direct legislative changes that SV is promoting today together with the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, and I understand that this is about security and a desire for predictability. But we made suggestions in the throne debate about getting a case of our own. Today, we are promoting proposals to clarify what the case should contain, namely that one should abolish the five-year rule. We believe that there will be an advantage if the bill in this case does not take on the basis of the five-year rule, so that it becomes a general rule, but rather assumes that a wish for an unlimited performance. We believe that a more thorough legal work will make the system better over time. Therefore, we are proposing today that the government should present a separate case during 2018 that the five-year rule be abolished and that the scheme be granted as an indefinite benefit, i.e. that the five-year rule should be removed before it enters into force and that it should be removed in a way that is time-consuming. We believe that this is possible, because for the vast majority of people, this will only come into effect in five years' time, unless both parents take care of the money at the same time, but it will be extremely few. For the Christian People's Party, it is also essential that people who have not earned rights through work can be included in the system, therefore we propose to have this investigated. The Christian People's Party had also actually intended to support the proposal which is in the position to grant self-employed workers and to free up rights to the scheme in line with workers. But as far as I know, it's already included, and I'm asking the Council of State to comment on it if she has the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3381	Does the President understand that the representative has drawn up proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3386	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3391	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad has drawn up the proposals he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3396	It is important to ensure financial security for parents with sick children. There's a lot of agreement here in the hall. Nursing, auxiliary and municipal care benefits should contribute precisely to this. The government has made major extensions to the care scheme. The scheme has more than doubled in both the number of recipients and expenditure. Large groups of sick children are included – groups that were not previously included or that entered and left the scheme due to the strict rules. The previous scheme was also complicated and not predictable. The proposal on 100 p.m. I do not address compensation for all 1 300 days now, since the budgetary agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the government parties takes care of this. The same applies to the proposal to reintroduce the derogation from the age limit for people with mental retardation. With regard to the proposal to protect self-employed persons and the rights of freelancers, on which Ropstad asked questions, it is quite correct that it has already been respected. The civil parties ensured that self-employed and freelancers were granted the same rights – 100 pst. Compensation now becomes for those with sick children. I would like to say a little bit more about the proposal for a derogation after 1 300 days. The representatives propose an exception to continue to be entitled to care allowance after 1 300 social benefits days of 100 pst. compensation. The condition for receiving the allowance after the exemption shall be the same as for the first 1,300 days. In reality, it means the right to care allowance of 100 pst. performance without a time limit other than that of the child under 18 years of age. The consequences of giving 100 pst. Compensation of labour income without a time limit is many, and they are not well established for us to see how this will affect the long-term situation of families. Let me say that caregiving has never been, nor should it be a state care allowance. Care allowance is a temporary income allowance when you are temporarily away from work to care for sick children, corresponding to the sickness benefit scheme. In other words, parents who are not economically active do not have the right to care. A time-limited performance will have adverse consequences in terms of employment, equality and integration. It is important that social security benefits provide the economic security needed by families in an already difficult situation of life, but at the same time this must not lead to families losing contact with the labour market and the secure income of regular work. A performance of 100 pst. compensation for up to 18 years increases the risk of unemployment and disability due to wear and burnout. Special women will be exposed. This could also lead to more women becoming minimum-pensioners. An unlimited benefit will also be very unfortunate for employers, as it comes with the right to leave with the right to a care allowance. If this continues to apply, a right of leave of up to 18 years may mean that employers will be able to refrain from hiring parents with sick children and thus deprive them of the possibility of financial security for a fixed income. Care is provided in an active way and is calculated on the basis of previous income. The difference will now be very large between working parents who receive full pay coverage for an unlimited period of time and parents who have not been active and thus have no entitlement to care but who have the same care burden. As many people have experienced, care allowances are covered by EEA legislation and can therefore also be exported to children living outside Norway. A time-limited performance of 100 pst. coverage goes across the other benefits of popular security, and it can be asked if it is reasonable then to lie in popular security. The public responsibility for assisting and relieving relatives with large care tasks lies with the municipality. We have local autonomy, and we have chosen to add the health and care sector to the municipalities. Care allowance shall not be paid to parents for the care they carry out, nor shall it compensate for any lack of municipal services. Care allowance must enable them to be with the sick children, not self-care. A 100 pst time unlimited popular peace. compensation goes a long way into municipal responsibility and local priorities. Such a public benefit will necessarily be centrally managed and cannot take into account local assessments and priorities. To what extent this will affect the local authorities' dimensioning of the offer to sick children, we do not know, but I would like to have a response to that. I would therefore advise against granting exemptions of 100 pst. care allowance without a time limit. Such a scheme has not been consistent, including the relationship with other social benefits and services or other key issues. It should at least be investigated before such major, major changes are made, which we have no idea of the consequences of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3426	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3431	The Council of State closed its intervention with a claim that we do not know the consequences if a vote in favour of the committee's suspension. Similarly, the case-rapporteur, from the Advancement Party, was on the inside and also spokesperson for the Right. The representative of Lundtigen asked a question in his article. Is it only those parts of the Committee's position today that are not covered by the decision that the Stortinge will vote unanimously tomorrow - as a result of the budgetary conciliation - that are irresponsible, or is it irresponsible for the majority parties to take part in tomorrow's debate in the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3438	The equation says you should have 100 pst. compensation for 1 300 days and the reintroduction of the derogation for mentally retarded persons over 18 years of age. What is contained in the proposal under consideration today is that you have to have 100 pst. compensation for up to 18 years. What are the consequences of this is most uncertain: what significance does it have for women's participation? What are the consequences for families that they may be at risk of having such a heavy responsibility on themselves? Will the municipalities then dimension their offer? Societal economics: If this is to be more profitable, it depends on the municipalities building up their offer, and I really don't recommend that the municipalities do that. On the contrary, municipalities should perhaps rather build up the offer for these families. The proposal under consideration is very comprehensive, and we do not know the consequences. What is adopted in the context of the budget is a much more moderate proposal compared to what is available here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3447	I thank you for your answer. My next question is when we can expect the Council of State to return to Stortinget with a case that has been resolved. The reason I ask is that we have had some bad experience in Stortinget in the past that also unanimous decisions have come back to Stortinget in a form in which the Stortinget is not completely familiar. I can mention as an example foster parents on social security. The question is: When can we expect the Stortinget to be dealt with, and will the Council of State then present a case in line with the wishes of the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3456	It's kind of dependent on what's going to be adopted here today. There are reasonably comprehensive investigation proposals The Stortinget obliges the government to come along, and the deadline is short. If the investigation proposals available here today are adopted as they exist, we will come back to the Storting during 2018 with very extensive investigations on very complex issues, which are both economics, gender equality, the working line, the export of benefits, etc. I can promise that I will do my best to be able to get to Stortinget with as good a basis as possible for the Stortinget to make qualified decisions. It's important in things like this. The size has given me a deadline of 2018, and of course I will try to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3463	There is a need for clarification. In the case to be dealt with tomorrow, Innst. 4 L for 2017-2018 from the Financial Committee, it appears in point 10.4 Care allowance that, according to the budgetary agreement between the four parties, proposals are made for the amendment of the People's Rights Act, where § 9-10 new third paragraph is to be replaced, etc. What's there is identical to what's in this option, Input. 59 L is under A I, ‘Sections 9 to 10 new third paragraph is replaced by the following:’. It is a proposal that the Progress Party and the Right in this vote are opposed. Then a new proposal is promoted, No. 3, from the Progress Party. How is proposal No. 3 to understand? That is to say, the government is subtracting from the agreement as set out in Innst. 4 L, which is being treated tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3473	The budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left has agreed on 100 p.m. For 1 300 days, compensation, plus a desire to exempt mentally retarded people over 18 years of age, i.e. reintroduce the exception in the old scheme. In the proposal under consideration today, it is 100 pst. compensation for 1 300 days. If you need a care allowance after that, you have a right to 100 pst. compensation with the same entry condition as the general rule, i.e. that the exemption becomes the general rule. You have the right to 100 pst. compensation, unlimited time. It has not been agreed by the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. That's 100 pst. have been agreed on for five years, not without a time limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3480	In this setting, the government parties argue strongly against the setting A I Section 9-10 new third paragraph – it is strongly argued against it. That proposal is completely identical to what will be discussed tomorrow, in Innst. 4 L, as the right hand, the party of progress, the left and the Christian party of the people are behind. Is it so to understand that the parties to the government are now withdrawing from what is the majority position tomorrow, as it would suggest if one adopted proposal No. 3, promoted by Atle Simonsen on behalf of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3485	I do not have the setting - Innst. 4 L – in front of me, but what the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed on is 100 pst. compensation for 1 300 days and the reintroduction of the derogation for the mentally retarded, similar to that of the old scheme. The representative Simonsen, on behalf of the Progress Party and with the support of the Right, has made a proposal to carry out a major investigation, precisely to look at the consequences of what is in the proposal for a representative, to have 100 pst. compensation of unlimited duration for 18 years, which is significantly different from that provided for by the budgetary agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3492	The care scheme, with today's legal text, which the Council of State defends, has an unprobably discriminatory outcome where serious, life-threatening disease that is not permanent provides the basis for care money, while serious, chronic and life-threatening disease that is permanent does not provide the basis for care after five years. These cases often have the same level of care needs, and children are children; they obviously need security and care from their neighbors, regardless of whether the disease is chronic or not. Does not the Council of State see how this discriminates and discriminates against families in an extremely vulnerable situation when they arrive at the date when the time has expired?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3499	I find it almost fascinating to hear how SV talks about how to discriminate against long-term ill and not permanently ill. It was this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, that has at all integrated the permanently ill children into this arrangement – they have never been there before. It's only now that they come under this scheme. Nor is it right that permanently ill children who have used up their rights cannot come back into the scheme. Yes, they can. Firstly, many of the children who were in the old system, too seriously ill, have experienced transitional arrangements. They won't be hit by this. Those who have a long-term ill child and who have used up the care period, and where the children have relapsed or other serious illness, yes, they have a new opportunity to take care of them, but then, on our proposal, there is another compensation. So that's simply not correct, what's said. The children are absolutely safe if they get a new disease of a non-permanent nature, so it is based on a misunderstanding. And so it's not SV that has been a driver to integrate the permanently ill children; it's the government parties with the Christian People's Party and the Left that have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3508	A small consideration that I could imagine hearing the Minister answer: What we adopt today can look like a factor in weakening equality, not least in terms of women and loss of future pension income. We all agreed on this with the need to care for sick children, but how does the Council of State think this could turn out to be a gender perspective? That's what I'd like to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3513	We know that there are women who take on these kinds of care tasks. 80 pst. of those taking out such schemes, women. This means, of course, that it will affect their ability to have income and service. They will also lose the opportunity to increase their income and thus also increase their pension performance in the future. Based on the experience of many of these who care for sick family members at home, we know that many of them get tired. They are burned out, they lose contact with the labour market, and there is a great risk of disability. That is why I am concerned that yes, we are going to take care of the families when they need help and assistance, but at the same time we have to make sure that the public does not downgrade their offer, just not to put the families in an even more difficult situation. Because it must be tempting for a municipality to say that, well, when they get 100 percent compensation from the state, why should we build up a large municipal offering? That's what we have to take care of, so we don't wear out women who already have big, difficult problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3520	I know that I'm getting a little bit divided, because on the one hand, I'm very grateful for the work the Council of State has done, and the commitment she's had, to expand the arrangement and include many more people. But then I notice that in the line-up, there is a lot of reasoning that those families are actually almost picking the wrong number. And when the equality card and the pension card are drawn, it is at least familiar to me so that care money gives you the right to earn a pension, while for example. care pay does not. So that's a good argument for one to be sure. On the other hand, I am pleased that the Council of State makes it clear that, if the proposal to come back with a case is adopted, she will follow it up. However, one of the proposals is to look at integrating parents who have not had work and who are not entitled to care allowance, or for example. to look at social assistance and social assistance. Can the Council of State comment on what she thinks about including groups other than those with a work relationship today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3527	First of all, I do not believe that families choose incorrectly. But what I'm concerned about is that when we're going to make arrangements that we want to work well for the families, we also have to make sure that we don't make some other decisions that may make their situation even more difficult, and that they are even more vulnerable than they already are, precisely because they also need help and relief, not just a support. One of the proposals is that we should also include families that do not have income. Then we have to get back to what it's like. Today, the care allowance is calculated on the basis of your income. That means that those who receive care have different levels, depending on how much they have earned. You earn little, you get little, you earn a lot, you get more. If you don't have any income at all, you might have to find some common minimum rate. Maybe you should have a common rate for everyone. The Kaasa Committee suggested you have 50 pst. rate, which is significantly lower than both 100 pst. and 66 pst, as proposed by the Government. The Kaasa Committee could have been used as a basis, if necessary. But we have to get back to all of this – whether we're going to have a common rate for everyone, or whether it's still going to be income-dependent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3534	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3541	It's hard to see what kind of forces live in some people. Four of the mothers who have stood behind the action for a fair care scheme are here today – Nina, Bettina, Helle Cecilie and Elin. How they've managed to fight that fight, I don't understand. As parents of seriously ill children, they have a lot to do at home. Nevertheless, they engage in a political struggle and raise it to national level, enter this room, and enter into decisions and improvements – improvement that benefits them, but also others, for which they take the fight. I'm deeply impressed. In the spring, a unanimous increase decided to change the care allowance scheme, on the basis of a work started by the red-green government. Several improvements were made. It is a good thing for Norway and a good thing for many families that more children in need of care have their parents present, while their parents retain the link with the working life. But there were some incomprehensible and serious holes in that arrangement. The Right Party and the Advance Party were warned about these holes over and over again, but the government still chose to adopt those holes. The families, the professionals, we in SV and the Christian People's Party saw it already when the law was passed – it was completely wrong. Some holes have been part of the Christian People's Party to seal through the budget agreement. They got 100 pst in place. compensation of wages and salaries and the care of persons with reduced development in the budgetary settlement. That's good, I'm glad. Through the work in Stortinget, both the Center Party and the Workers' Party have now joined the team, because they will not admit the Right and Advance Party either: it was wrong. The size has to change this. I would like to thank the Workers' Party and the Center Party, for there is respect for listening. The last hole, which now remains, is the strict five-year rule, which means a very serious discrimination of diagnosis. So the new law discriminates against children who have life-threatening diseases or injuries just because they are chronic or permanent. Today, I hoped that we would be done, that we could change this law, give security to the parents here in the gallery and their children. We could have sealed the unfair holes. But a direct change of laws will unfortunately not be part of the Christian People's Party today, and I'm sorry for that. When we listen to the debate today, it is obvious that the Progress Party and the Right have not changed their mind, rather on the contrary. Therefore, I do not have the very great expectations of their efforts in this matter in the future, and the Storting should therefore take a crystal clear decision to change the law today. It's not always we here at Stortinget see such a clear connection between decisions we make in this room, and real people's lives and future, but in this case we just have to look up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3557	Is the representative Kaski going to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3562	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3567	Then the proposal to which it was referred is drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3572	It's only been a little over six months since Stortinget adopted a new and extended care allowance scheme. The law was simplified, and twice as many were entitled to care allowance. Yes, it was more than a doubling of the budget. I would like to stress that what we adopted was an incredibly important priority. Because when children become seriously ill and need supervision and care, yes, parents’ presence is the most important thing for their children — and also for their parents. Nursing allowance is a temporary income allowance for those who are away from work to care for sick children. From the comments, I see that the Committee agrees with that understanding, and that is an important delimitation. I was the case rapporteur when we discussed the matter of care allowance in our company. At that time, the Committee agreed that care allowances and sickness benefits should be calculated on the basis of an approximation of the rules laid down in the Law on Social Security, because both benefits should cover loss of income in the event of temporary absence from work due to illness. A daily allowance of 1,300 days per child was intended to be equal to the sickness benefit and redundancy allowance scheme, 260 days with 100 pst. income compensation and the remaining 1,040 days by 66 pst. compensation – a flexible scheme that can be graduated to 20 pst. in combination with work. In case of graduation, the scheme may be extended on time, up to 10 years. Some of the purpose of this flexibility was that parents should be able to keep in touch with the labour market. The budget agreement in the autumn between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left meant a further extension of the arrangement. Now it's 100 pst. compensation of earnings for 1 300 days, i.e. no reduction to 66 pst. As I read the comments, the majority of the committee now departs from the principle that care allowance should be a temporary benefit. Going beyond the 1,300 days that have been adopted, I believe that care allowance should be a temporary compensation for the loss of labour income for working parents. Enlargement is more similar to some form of state care pay, but if this is the purpose, and that there is a care wage you want, it should be better investigated. I have the understanding that this is what the Christian People's Party really wants: some kind of nursing pay. Then you go into the area where municipal responsibility lies. I particularly welcome the Workers' Party, which six months ago thought there must be a framework for welfare benefits in order to maintain a sustainable welfare system. Now they go beyond these principles: no restrictions on the number of days spent on care and no reduction in benefits, and in some cases 100 pst. compensation of wages and salaries for an indefinite period. A timeless social benefit to be at home and care for children has clear challenges in keeping in touch with the labour market, and not least in a gender mainstreaming and integration perspective. The Kaasa Committee points out that there are women who are constantly taking out care pay and who are staying home with sick children. It is important that the care allowance system be set up to balance the family’s need to care for their sick children so that they can maintain contact with the labour market at the same time. I am afraid that opening up to unlimited social benefits will not contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3591	The starting point for this debate is that this government has wanted to extend the care allowance scheme. The old scheme was too rigid and too unpredictable, and many felt it was random and unfair. Spending more than half a billion extra plus another 200 million after the negotiations with the Left and Christian People's Party to give more than 9,000 more children and families care money has therefore been one of the great welfare promises of this government. What we are discussing here today is, in reality, whether care allowance should continue to be a temporary compensation for lost labour income, as has been planned at all times, or whether they should be extended overnight to become a care allowance for employed persons equal to 100 pst. of employee income for potential 18 years. I would warn against that, because it could potentially have negative implications that are far from being sufficiently assessed to be responsible for adopting it today. A widely used argument in the debate on care money is that it is much cheaper for the state to pay relatives to take care of nurturing children than it is to have someone in public care. It may be true in the short term, but it is far from sure that it is in the longer term. They are also exposed to physical and mental health disorders, and they are burned out by having 100 pst. care for a nursing child over time, understandably enough. But there is also a danger that temporary absences will become permanent, and that danger will grow every year that goes. We've got a lot of research on that. Making arrangements for up to 18 years of temporary absence without really finding out is to gamble with the workline. I'm also afraid that this is just the beginning of a bigger debate that we're going to see more of: the argument about paying relatives for care tasks to relieve public care we're going to hear more often and more often in contact with an increasingly older population. I think we all know who's going to be most at home if we give in to that argument. We then help to undermine one of the most important values in the Norwegian model, namely women's participation in the labour market. I would therefore appeal to perhaps the Workers' Party in particular: what may now seem to be a well-meaning and perhaps also economically rational argument in the short term can help undermine one of the most important economic success factors in Norway in the longer term. Therefore, we should take better time to at least investigate this properly and not adopt a change in law that we do not know the consequences of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3604	One of the first days of January 2016, I had several unanswered calls from a close relative. The family of four had just returned from Christmas celebrations in Spain and had been with the doctor with the two-year-old, who had been sick parts of the trip. Later that day the doctor's suspicions were confirmed. The little girl of two years had developed acute leukemia. The world would never be the same. Being on the outside as a relative in such a situation is difficult. One doesn't know what to say, what to do, and the worst of all is that one can't remove the pain from the parents. One must be available and try to contribute. It's the parents who are going through the toughest fight of their lives, along with the sick kid – the girl you've ever had. It is important that we as a society address those who are in vulnerable situations, and it is important to ensure financial security for parents with sick children. As a society, we take responsibility. It is done today through care allowance, social assistance and municipal welfare benefits. The mother of the two-year-old who had leukemia, as a student, was not entitled to care allowance. Care allowance was also, as now, intended as a temporary income insurance for those who are at work. This debate should have been about this, a temporary guarantee of income, called care allowance. Instead, today we are also talking about a care allowance, without a time limit. It's a completely different debate, and the consequences have not been investigated. We in the Right see the need for parents to be at home with sick children, but if we uncritically introduce care pay, in the belief that there are care money, we jump over a number of issues that should be investigated. I think it's going to affect women, because it's essentially those who stay at home, who can lose their ties to the world of work. They may lose employee income and pension income and, in the worst case, they themselves may become ill and end up in disability benefits. These are poor gender equality policies and poor health policies. Therefore, for many decades we have built up municipal services, to support families and to provide all opportunities to participate in communities other than home and family. Instead of making municipal services and services more robust, this may now be eroded by giving strong signals that parents should be at home, by putting in practice a state wage for the care of workers who withdraw from the labour market. The provision of services is also more attractive than municipal social assistance, which is usually provided after an overall assessment and adaptation of services that meet the needs of the family. We know that these can vary from municipality to municipality, and therefore the municipal reform has been important in bringing together competences and services. Parents with nursing children deserve support and help to live their lives as normal as possible. However, introducing a care system that is not properly investigated and in worst cases can lead to parental withdrawal from work is not a good policy either for the child or for the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3623	This is an obvious matter, where the Storting must jointly find good solutions. It's about the child's need for care and the parents' need not to worry about their own economy in the midst of a crisis about life and death, even when the crisis is on time. But it's also about common sense. The children need care and care, and then it's actually also in the interests of society that the family and the parents get the opportunity to set up. Through extensive experience, they have often become experts on the medical needs of their children and should be seen as an invaluable resource for care and care, not just as an economic burden on society. I understand that the Council of State is concerned that this should be replaced for municipal services and perhaps also for specialist health services. It is clearly a concern, but this must be in addition to and not instead. If you ignore purely medical considerations, there is no doubt that your parents have invaluable resources in terms of communication, experience and continuity. The saying that you have to be strong to be sick is double true when you're related to a sick child. In the past, the Labour Party has made proposals in line with what has been achieved by the majority here today, and we are, of course, pleased that there is still a movement in the matter. We would very much like to see a majority to do something about the five-year rule now, but as long as something is done about it before new rules come into force, we'll live with it. Then we are sincerely hoping that this uncertainty will not contribute to an additional burden for those families out there that are heavily loaded up from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3634	I notice that several representatives keep posts full of feelings. It is not difficult to talk about feelings in this matter, because this is about children and despairing parents. Then it's easy to argue for ever more and more, and it's hard to argue that not all proposals for more necessarily are correct. Then I think it's right for them: the children and the parents. The opposition proposes a system without a time limit. This comes at the top of a large extension of who is covered by the scheme, and it comes at the top of a large extension of the amount of the scheme. Does the opposition not see any problems with the proposed extension? Does the opposition not see that this could have unintended consequences for equality, integration, social security exports to foreign citizens and the workforce? Here's a feeling -- a lot of emotion. Most of us have the greatest sympathy with those who are affected by children's disease, and we so much want to make their lives a little simpler. I know families who live with sick children. What they themselves say is how strenuous it is to be a caregiver and a health professional 24 hours a day, all year, several years in a row. This is a huge burden for the individual. Even if you want to be at home with your sick child, most people also need to maintain contact with the working life and life outside the family. We need to figure out how children can get the best care possible, while at the same time the parents don't wear out completely. In all good will, it's irresponsible not to look carefully at how things actually relate. It's irresponsible not to look at what actually helps, and how we don't make the situation worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3647	I just have a couple of little comments like that all the way to the tap. It is spoken in general order from the pulpit here as if we are now introducing an all-encompassing and big new order. In the setting, there are numbers we've got from Nav, via the investigation section on Stortinget, which shows that the maximum amount of care is less than one year, and the number we've been given is 5,657. Those who make use of care for 1 to 2 years are 329 pieces. Those who exercise their entitlement to care allowance for five to six years are nine. We're not talking about very many, but we're talking about a very small group that has such a heavy everyday life that the proposal that we're promoting here today is the only way to make it go around. One also says from a medical team that it is very important that parents are present, because parents become experts on their own children. When it comes to people who also switch over the clock, there can simply be danger on the road because they don't know the person who might not be able to express himself either. We're talking about very few. I tried to get another line at the Council of State to get her to solve it, but I'm going to take it either as a question or as a statement from here. Point B, concerning self-employed workers and freelancers who have seriously ill children, is in view of a changed care system. In our proposal, we are committed to both changes in rates and the use of qualifying days, and those qualifying days are to be financed with care money. In the area of care, there are different rules for self-employed, freelancers and workers. These include: lower rates, and also qualifying days, for self-employed and freelancers in the care scheme, a little depending on the nature of the insurance they have taken out. It is simply to ensure that we come out with a set of rules that are the same for workers, self-employed and freelancers, so I recommend that the Stortinget also include point B in the decision. We don't make it bigger than what's necessary, but probably it's necessary to adjust something.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3656	Hopefully, we all understand the difficult situation for the whole family when a child gets seriously ill. That is why, like the others who have spoken earlier this evening, I am also pleased with the changes that came into force on 1 October, which can give as many as 9 000 more families support and more time to care for their sick children. As a result, the government also added more than a double in the estimated costs of the scheme. The budget agreement between the government and the Left and Christian People's Party expanded the order by 100 pst. compensation of wages and salaries for the entire period of 1 300 days, and exemption for the age limit of 18 for mentally retarded persons. The agreement also provides for an assessment of the condition for obtaining a care allowance to be amended so that another family member can enter into one of the parents. Having said this, I am skeptical that today the Storting might adopt a further extension of the scheme without looking at the consequences first. Unfortunately, this seems to be the rule over the exception for several lots in this room. What really surprises me in today's debate is the position the Labour Party has now taken. If the majority's vote is taken, the party has failed both in its working line and in its equality. Today we risk that the Stortinget sends a strong signal that parents with nursing children should step out of work and care for their children themselves. It is healthy for the family and individuals to be able to participate in different communities. Parents with seriously ill children also deserve good arrangements to ensure that they can participate in the workplace, in communities and in other master arenas than at home. The size decided first to extend the care allowance scheme to several families, then to extend the benefit to 100 pst. Today, several parties want to remove the time limit, and we can end up adopting what at least looks like a state care allowance for active workers, even though, as Lise Christoffersen was in it, most people use the scheme for shorter periods of time. This is without prejudice to the impact of this on equality, labour relations and the reduction of municipal services. In particular, on the equal opportunities side, there is a serious failure. Experience tells us that mainly the woman stays at home. It is those who can lose employee income and pension savings and lose links with the labour market. I fear that this could be a setback for Norwegian gender equality policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3667	Now I think it's about time we started talking about this as it is, which is quite extreme situations some families experience. I want to ask my co-representatives: do they really not think that those who have this life situation have thought about the questions they are now talking about? Do they really think these are women and mothers who do not want to have contact with the labour market and who are not concerned with gender equality? That's exactly why we need to change the scheme, because the previous scheme always gave care when the situation was unstable and critical – regardless of whether the disease was new or not chronic. As a result, they were able to keep in touch with the work force, that they could keep in touch – they knew you could be on and off. The employer also knew that you could. These are extreme situations for parents, and there are often extreme situations for employers. So making this system better is what can make sure that many of these do it. Then I hear someone talk about the municipal support schemes. Do those who talk about this intend to weaken the rights that people have in the municipalities, or what are we talking about? Then you can just strengthen those rights. I know that many with seriously ill children get good offers in the municipalities about relief – but someone does not get it. Some have even mentioned user-directed, personal nurses, precisely because many of these children have such special disorders and need that it is not possible for a regular nurse who is in and has many visits to handle that speciality. So maybe you have to have such a special arrangement. It might be something that could make more of the parents able to get back to work. To the concern for equality: I think these families are very aware of this sea and are doing everything they can to have contact with the labour market. That they should become poorer in order to have that contact with the labour market, I think is a completely unreasonable method. Remember this: Here you need the approval of a specialist who recommends this scheme. This isn't a system you can choose for yourself. So I want to go back to this with the municipal services. I would like to ask the Council of State, as she also addressed it: Is it such that the government intends to weaken the rights of these families – either through the specialist health service or the municipal health service – or does the Council of State intend to insist that these rights remain and that there is an extension we are now talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3685	When I heard who was in the gallery, I also wanted to take the opportunity to say a thousand thanks to William and his mother, Elin, who let me come home to them last week to see what the situation of a family receiving care allowance is. I saw how much help and adaptation they depended on to make everyday life go up, and it is precisely because of such cases that we have doubled the allocation to this care scheme and want to improve it, so that more people can get the opportunity to provide the best care for their children when they are seriously ill. Then we have said that we believe there must be a framework for that arrangement today, and we initially proposed a framework of five years. We are now saying that if the proposals are adopted today, we also want to know what the consequences will be of expanding such a system. It is argued here that care money is given for shorter periods, but it applies under old rules, i.e. before re-planning. In the past, parents to long-term ill children were only entitled to care allowance in very narrow or short-term cases. When you have included long-term sick children and eased on the disease requirement, many parents will fill the conditions for care until the child is 18 years old, and the Kaasa Committee's proposal to introduce entitlement to care allowance of 50 pst. in the case of a permanent disease, it is estimated to cost between 180 million. NOK 4500 and SEK 4500 million. kr. So a system is proposed that is twice as liberal as it is, and this is an investigation that the red-green themselves were responsible for, but they didn't do anything about. If you look at the Labour Party application - the party that tried to win the election, but lost - there is not a single word there about care. In other words, they had no plans to do anything about this arrangement if they were to win the election – just as they didn't do anything about this arrangement when they had the power for eight years. In most cases, today’s decisions will not mean anything until five years — in some cases in two and a half years’ time. It is decided that there will be a separate research plan, ordered by Oxford Research, which will follow developments here to ensure that there will be no unintended consequences and see what changes will be like. Since it is possible to wait, we believe that it is wise to do just that. But we almost have to ask those who now think you can't wait, what they're really afraid that such a type of investigation should show. Is there a fear that it will then be more difficult to say yes to what one says yes to today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3698	What we fear is that this uncertainty that characterizes these families is going to persist. What we fear is that we get from the government a document that concludes that you don't want to close these holes. And when you listen to the government parties today, there's every reason to have that fear. This whole thing – and the Advancement Party and the Right treatment of it – is characterized by the fact that you see only the system and not the people, not the parents and not the children. The Progress Party and the Right are now putting all their energy into changing the system – and we've been on a lot, too much has been important – but it's not for the sake of the system that we're making these changes. We have to ask who we're asking for. That is why I have an extremely small sense of the proposals of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 3 and 4, in this case, because they have the impression that you are looking with light and light for arguments against voting for a proposal that will close one concrete hole, arguments that are picked down when, for example. reads the proposal from the Government and the setting up of the Committee on the Conversion of the Care Scheme in Spring. So I would strongly urge the representative Simonsen to read these documents. For example, it is added. limitations on how long, a limited period, care allowance can be paid, e.g. in connection with a foreign residence. When it comes to equality, it has nothing to do with equality. And a government that has reduced the paperwork, weakened the work environment law, increased the cash support – about the line of work – are therefore the ones who are going to save equality by making sure that parents of 200 sick children have to go to work. It is at best an attempt to derail what this debate is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3707	The government parties have an unreasonable argument in my opinion when they talk about this as a withdrawal for equality, and that if the majority of the parties in the committee get their views, their parents leave the labour market. I agree with what the representative Karin Andersen said. There are extreme disease situations to be covered here, and no one has better conditions to decide on the extent to which a seafarer should take responsibility than the parents' seafarer. As can be seen from the setting, it is natural, where there is a need for care for less than one year, that the large number is present. So there's someone besides that. The current situation is that in the case of people with developmental disabilities over 16 years of age, the government parties today will vote against what they will vote for tomorrow. That's pretty interesting. So the government parties argue further, with the government council at the head, that what is the problem for the government parties is what is stated in the last section of § 9-12, where it says: ‘After 1 300 days of social assistance, care may be provided to persons who are under the age of 18 who have a disease or injury and who need continuous supervision and care.’ I think it's quite special to produce so much adrenaline against that part of the proposal. From the centre party, we've been on it for a while because there are examples of relapses after 1,300 social welfare days, and it would be quite unreasonable if you didn't take into account that you could get some care money on that situation. This also applies to permanent serious illness where there is a continuing need for supervision and care and should be able to benefit from the scheme. It is strange that one day before 1 300 should be covered by the corresponding paragraph, whereas after 1 300 social benefits days it is devastating for both participation and equality. It is especially that there is so much argument for so little, even when one on an important part will vote for the same proposal tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3721	Economic security for families with nursing children is something we all want. That's also why this government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the current budget, has prioritised about three billion extra dollars for this purpose – more than anyone else has given priority to caring money in the past. I would like to read out what the then Minister of Labour Hanne Bjurstrøm said to the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party when we asked about the care allowance scheme in 2011. ‘When the need for care is transitory, it could be useful for parents to stay at home and care for the child rather than to establish public care at short notice and for limited periods of time. When the condition is long-term, the condition is that the service needs can be met by appropriate municipal services in cooperation with parents, so that parents can participate in the professional life. In the case of long-term care, the risk for parents to fall out of the labour market would arise.» Since then, we have made significant extensions to the care scheme. We've also expanded it for more permanent cases. But it is a little ironic that there is now the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left who believe that Bjurstrøm had a point, however, when she pointed to the link to working life as an important point also in this scheme, and that there should still be a temporary compensation for lost labour income and not a care allowance for up to 18 years. The new scheme entered into force on 1 October of this year. It's too early to refer to Nav numbers now to say exactly how this is going to turn out, and what this is going to look like in a little bit of time to come. If we take into account the estimates of the Kaasa committee, we actually don't know how much this plan is going to cost. So we're talking about something that could cost some place between 360 million. kr and 9 brd. kr more. For a government and the parties that are to manage the majority in this Chamber and take responsibility for the budget, the only responsibility is to say that we have to do better before we adopt here today a legislative change that we actually do not know the scope and consequences of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3735	First I want to take off my hat for the tough ladies in the gallery, who stand in their life struggle and yet find time to be here and take other fights – respect! It was mentioned in the debate that there is a lot of emotion in this debate. I'd like to confirm that. There are many feelings in this debate because it's about long-term sick children, sick children in an extreme situation and their parents' ability to be present in their children's lives. It's not a counter-argument that someone gets upset, or that there's feelings in this debate. It's quite natural, I think. I have debated in a long life with representatives from the Right and the Advance Party, and in very many debates I have met with claims that the Right and the Advance Party are too free for the individual, that people themselves know best which decisions are right for them, that the family itself should choose its own solutions for their own lives. I have not heard this argument in this case at all. On the contrary, I have heard a argument about which choices the families are in these extreme situations should take. I have heard that it is not good for families to care all the time. I've heard that it's bad for equality, bad for pension points. As Andersen's representative was inside, I think the families themselves have been inside these thoughts, they're in an extreme situation. A question I would like to ask about the position, or the Right and Advance Party, is: Who is going to take care of the kids if the parents can't afford to be home from work? For many parents, it is not an alternative not to work – they may have to sell the house to support themselves. Who's going to take care of the kids, what kind of choices are families going to make in the situations they're going to have? I wonder. Finally, I would also like to ask: there has been a lot of talk about accountability and consequences. Then I'll think, "Responsibility for whom?" Consequences for whom? What is the consequence for these families of the decisions taken today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3748	Nor is it a debate without this story. I just want to say that we waited four years for changes from the government that were sitting then. It was investigated, we waited four years, and when it came, SV made its own proposals because we saw that it was not good enough in that matter in the previous period. So maybe we can put that behind us. Everyone has agreed on the good extensions. It is the gaps and limitations of the new system that are the problem. One of the problems that sounds like the Council of State has not understood either is that the old care allowance scheme gave care when the child was in an unstable, critical phase, regardless of whether it was chronic or not, and that was what enabled these families to get into work. That's what they say. It's possible Right thinks they know better, but I actually think these families know that that's what has made them able to stand. That's why it's problematic. That is why it needs to be changed – in order to create a system that works, so that these families have the opportunity to get their lives together. From our side, we want to see if there are other arrangements on the municipal side that can help these families so that they can have more choices. Because what I see is that they have no choice. They have to do this, also because the auxiliaries to help them are not able to help them so that they are confident that this is actually what their children need in some of these extreme cases. In other cases, families are given good help, and it is absolutely necessary to expand the offer – special offers that can help these families, so that they can make the choices that everyone should be able to make on whether or not they will have a connection with the world of work. I now understand that the right-hand side uses the equality card in a way that I think is inappropriate. As the representative Kaski said, there are many other situations where you are willing to pay healthy people to be at home. Take, for example: The cash support, there you have several hundred million dollars to put on the table – perfectly fine, healthy people, take the pick sail! These are families that don't have a choice, and then you might want to be willing to also make arrangements that make the lives of these families work as best as they want, because I think they're the experts on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3763	Of course, the right is loyally supporting the budgetary agreement and the agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party. The reason why we are today voting against some of the legislative amendments that we will vote for tomorrow is obvious. It's simply a technical assessment, and anyone who doesn't run a political game understands where the Right is. That's no more interesting than that. In the case of the representative Lerbrecken's attack on the government to both extend the scheme and change the device from 100 pst. to 66 pst., as if this made families poorer, that's the opposite. Many of those we've read about in the media had nothing before October 1st, but with that change they initially got 66 pst, and through the budget agreement it's pulled up to 100 pst. What has not been determined, which we have repeated several times here, is an unlimited right to 100 pst. compensation for up to 18 years. There is a difference between the proposal that the Right Party and the Advance Party are promoting, and what is behind the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. There are also parents who are not here today, who are in favour of a care scheme that helps them combine being a parent and being at work. When the Workers' Party and SV play 100 pst. Compensation for pay leaves the line where you provide a work relationship for these parents, it is a very strong signal that you can be at home, and you should be at home. The representative Barstad asked who to look after these children if the parents are not there. Yes, but who should look after these children when mother is burned out and father and mother have become ill and disabled in the long term because this burden has been too heavy? For over 50 years, we have built a welfare state that is meant to help and relieve the families that need it, through, among other things. care services. We have done just that because we want both parents to be able to contribute and have a community even outside the home, and that women should also be allowed to participate in the labour market. I believe that the Workers' Party and SV today leave that line, and I think that is a pity. The representative Karin Andersen asks rhetorically if we don't believe that parents have thought about this. Yes, we do. But as she says -- this is an extreme situation, and I know with myself that in extreme situations I sometimes make choices other than I would if I had the opportunity to think about it in a different context. Employers also have an extreme situation when dealing with an employee who is granted 18 years leave. I'm in favour of municipal arrangements to help the families that need it. I am also in favour of an extension of the care allowance scheme. I think it's a little strange to be accused of putting the system ahead of individuals – by SV, a party that put eight years in government without expanding it, when this government actually took initiative and got it expanded.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3778	I have received questions and comments along the way that I would like to comment quickly. To Lise Christoffersen: Self-employed and freelancers and their rights to care were respected in 2015. All the time we debate here is spent caring for their interests. The Government has also proposed strengthening the rights of the relatives in the municipalities. To Karin Andersen who asked if we should weaken the rights: No, on the contrary, we have actually proposed to strengthen the rights of the relatives, cf. Prop. 49 L for 2016-2017. To the representative Kaski, the government does not defend the system. On the contrary, it is the government parties together with the Christian People's Party and the Left that have changed an extremely unfair system that incorporated very few, and that made it difficult to enter. It was with a lot of discretion, and it was a rigid code. That's what we've changed, precisely because we want to take care of the families in a much better way than what they were in the old system. That's right, what Lundtegen said about the fact that there were few inside the old system. But the numbers it refers to are just the numbers that were in the old scheme. How it's going to be reorganized, we don't know yet. The new law entered into force on 1 October. There are very few who have come in: what behavioral change will be like as a result of new changes, we do not yet know. In a year or two we will probably know more about how extensive this will be. As of today, it's hard to say. But it's true that in the old scheme, this matter mattered very little. But then there were not only sick children who were integrated. We don't know what it's like now. Who's gonna take care of the kids? Yes, parents should do so, along with good, public treatment, care and care services. We are concerned that they need to find a good balance, and that we are able to care for the parents' need to be with their children when they are ill. But to take on heavy, medical, nursing tasks alone, we need to be careful not to let parents burn out too. They must take care of their own health, and they may also have to take care of other children. We have to make sure that they get a total setup around them that takes care of them. Karin Andersen believes that the old system was better than the new one. No, it wasn't, on the contrary. It wasn't any better at all. The current system is much more flexible than the old system. It's less discretionary, as I said before, and there's less rigid rules. Then, through the budgetary agreement, the Storting will adopt some changes, which of course we will follow up. But to present a new system that is worse than the old one, yes, it is with respect to report completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3795	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3800	I must again stress that we support the extension and conversion that was presented in ours. It was a unanimous big deal. That work was started by the red-green government. It took this government four years to put it on the table, and the argument in eight years with the red-green government begins with respect to report being a little worn out. Nor can I understand how the arguments put forward in this Chamber against the proposal that we are dealing with now and that is on the table cannot be put forward against the enlargement that was unanimously adopted. It's completely incomprehensible. It's an argument that's out of touch. There's a hole here that hits someone -- not very many. They are affected by uncertainty and economic uncertainty. They fight for their kids, but they're not torn by acute emotions or sensitivities, as it can be heard here from the representative Lunde. There is a lasting situation for those to whom they have a rational approach. They should take care of the child, try to be at work and have financial security, just to take care of themselves and their child.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3808	The representative Lise Christoffersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3813	Just so that there is no doubt about it: I did not ask the Council of State questions about care money, because it is equal. But what I asked about was that when we promote a proposal to apply a withdrawal date that is to be covered with care money, there are not completely equal rules. So when we propose changes, we want to make sure that self-employed and freelancers are also involved, so that it remains the same in the future. That's the point of suggestion B.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3818	The representative Kristian Toning Riise has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3823	To the representative Kaski: There was a unanimous uprising about, was a proposal from the Christian People's Party, who asked the Stortinget to: «Promoting proposals for changes to the care scheme that ensure more financial security and predictability for parents in care responsibilities». I agreed. What we're adopting here today is not a change in the care scheme. It is really introducing a whole new care pay scheme for working people, without any investigations. The system we have now entered into force on 1 October of this year. We've agreed on 100 pst. Coverage with the Left and Christian People's Party in the negotiations. We have time to look at how the new system works with the changes we have now, before we adopt completely new changes that we do not know the consequences of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3833	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3849	At the request of the Working and Health Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven rows of replies are given by members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3860	In the event of a mistake, I commented on this matter during the examination of the two previous cases, so I would like to briefly clarify the matter as the case-rapporteur. This is a joint proposal with legislative changes, and there are a number of minor corrections as a result of incubators, etc., where there is a unanimous committee which is committed to correcting them. At the same time, there are some legislative changes related to the budget of the Labour and Social Committee in 2018, which are dealt with in the Stortinget next Friday. I just have to comment on them briefly. The first concerns the amendment of the advance law. The State has assumed responsibility for the advance of missing or delayed maintenance contributions when the beneficiary has income below a certain limit. The government wanted to sharpen the scheme even more against those dependants who have the lowest income and proposes to liquidate the reduced advance from 1 January 2018. This means that, for example, single beneficiaries with a child and with income above NOK 408 200 shall not be entitled to a contribution advance. Net cost reduction was 50 million. kr in 2018. In the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left, one opposed the proposal and financed it in the same way as the Workers' Party does. SV also opposes the government’s proposal without an alternative budget showing funding. The central party supports the government's proposal as part of our overall priority. Since we are alone on this in the vote, we have not promoted the government's proposal. Furthermore, there is a change in the vesting period for entitlement to day-care allowance during unemployment. The government's proposal is that only revenue from the last calendar year should be taken into account. This means a saving of 305 million. kr. In addition, this was to be combined by also health benefits under the People's Security Act Chapter 8 and care allowance etc. by virtue of Chapter 9 of the Law on Social Security, it shall be included in the revenue giving entitlement to the daily allowance. This would have added $95 million to the state budget. kr. All parties in the Committee oppose the Government's proposal and thus maintain the present system, whereby the vesting period for entitlement to unemployment benefits is paid on a longer-term basis. No batches take up the government's proposal that sickness benefits and care allowances be included in the income that gives entitlement to daily allowances. Furthermore, it's the point of service dogs. A permanent scheme from 1 January 2018 has been proposed. Persons receiving support for service dogs shall receive basic support at the rate of 3, in the same way as for the required team of assistance dogs. There's a unanimity. Finally, the abolition of aid is set at 0 in § 26-2. The entire committee, except the Centre Party, is in favour of a saving of 73 million. kr, which means minus NOK 13 560 per year for those entitled to the transitional arrangement. The centre party prioritizes this group of people who use social benefits to cover private assistance in the house. There are over 12,000 people who need help in the house to work better in everyday life. So we're prioritizing a real price adjustment, and together we're going to increase our budget by 80.6 million. kr. Finally, I just want to give an explanation of the vote. From the last point I said, the central party will vote against the third sentence of the referendum, the point of Section 26-2, first paragraph, the new third sentence, which is proposed to read as follows: ‘Help for assistance in the house granted under Law No 17 June 1966. 12 on public security § 8-2(b), is not provided after 1 July 2018.’ [[Phase 0]] So the central part is that it's falling away and wants to vote against that part of III.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3886	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3902	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3913	The duty of activity and presentation has been, and is, of the main gender equality tools we have. Enterprises are required to work actively to increase equality and to combat discrimination. It is also required to explain in the annual report what to do and how to do it. Due to the obligation of activity and presentation, we have achieved more equality in the Norwegian labour market than we had done without. Due to the obligation of presentation and activity, we also receive valuable statistics on the state of equality in Norwegian working life. It's important. The matter we are now debating and will adopt requires a review of the last year. For a long time, the government had been consulting a case on a common new law on discrimination, where the equality law as we knew it was removed. The government provided for the removal of the obligation to make presentations and for the extension of the obligation to carry out activities to other areas of discrimination, along with new laws. Fortunately, the working party, together with the opposition, prevented the proposed deterioration of the government. We received a majority in favour of a proposal asking the government, on the contrary, to strengthen and maintain the duty of activity and presentation, and that the government should come back with a new case about this. This is where the need for today's case arises, because until the government has done that job – that is to say, assessed and strengthened and come to the Stortinget with a case of a new duty of activity and presentation – today's obligation to make a presentation must continue in the majority's view, so that you do not get up to a full year without any obligation to make a statement. I'm glad we get a majority for that. Then, just before delivery – the night before, in fact – things happened in this room that also affect this case. Following an appointment by the Financial Committee, the annual report was exempted from the requirement of 1 January in last week companies with fewer than 50 employees. With this, all reporting on social responsibility is waived, as there is no report to be made any more — which has been explained in the past. It is regrettable that one of the most important equality tools we've ever had, and we have, is missing. It's actually like 90 pst. by Norwegian enterprises have fewer than 50 employees. They shall now refrain from explaining what they are doing on the equality front. And even if the obligation of activity exists for all the companies, it's a little pointless to have a duty of activity without an obligation to report. It's like saying to a school class that now you have to remember to do the homework, but no one is going to check them. So we've taken into account that change from Stortingen in this document, even though most of us regret it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3926	There is no doubt that there was and is political discussion and disagreement related to the obligation to make representation in the new Equality and Discrimination Act. When the law was discussed and adopted in the Stortinge in ours, we were pleased in the Right and the Advance Party that the government extended the employer’s obligation to work in important areas where many people experience discrimination. In addition to gender equality, employers now have an obligation of activity related to ethnicity, religion, disability and sexual orientation. The new law provides an important boost to the whole process of equality and discrimination. At the same time, the government parties considered that there were good arguments for removing the obligation to make presentations. Many claim that it has been shown to have little or no real effect. The law is clear, employers are required to work actively against discrimination, now in several areas. The disclosure obligation does not require specific measures, but may help to identify whether the activity has fulfilled its obligation of activity. When the law was initially being consulted, there were hearing bodies that also argued well to remove the obligation to make presentations. They indicated that the removal of the obligation involves savings of resources and that the obligation is bureaucratic and resource-intensive. At the time, the main organisation said that the obligation is far on the road as an obligation that is resolved by general formulations that are, in effect, of limited value. The Right Party and the Progressive Party are committed to reducing unnecessary and resource-intensive bureaucratic burdens on business, and we felt that removing the obligation to make representation would help to fulfill this promise. It would also be possible to release resources for the enforcement apparatus no longer to verify compliance with the reporting obligation. But that is not really what this is all about today. Although the Right Party and the Advance Party wanted to liquidate the obligation to make presentations in the new law, there was, however, a majority – when dealing with the law during the previous magnification period – for a strengthened obligation to make presentations. It was then made clear that, for all areas of activity, such an amended obligation to make representation would lead to a change in the law that would not be applicable from the new law on equality and discrimination will enter into force in a short period of time. Of course, we have respect for the fact that in this proposal for a representative, the left will have the effect that the obligation to make representations for equality, as the only one of several grounds for discrimination, will now apply to 2018 alone, and that an obligation to make representations for the rest of the field of equality and discrimination will be presented in a legislative work that the Stortinget will deal with later. For enterprises with more than 50 employees, there is now one year when they are still only required to account for equality, while they have an activity obligation on a significantly larger basis. The primary position of the right hand party and the Progress Party is to remove the obligation of presentation, but to strengthen the obligation of activity as it now happens. In this respect, we also disagree with the rapporteur, who concludes that the obligation of activity is rendered unnecessary in some way because the obligation to make representation falls away. We believe that it is the duty of activity that is essential, that will create, and create, changes. That is why we are voting against the proposals today. We know that the Ministry is in the process of assessing different options for the design of both employers’ activity and reporting obligations, and that the government aims to send legislative proposals for consultation and to promote a legislative proposal, which will also address the changes made by the Storting in another matter relating to the annual report and the accounting obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3943	Would you like to make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3948	Yes, I'm addressing proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3953	Then the representative, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3958	This is a case of increased equality. There is unison agreement that equality is important and good, and a good deal has happened in the equality field. Thanks to an active gender equality policy over the last decades, we have changed our society from being gendered to becoming more equal. Through policy measures, we have provided equal opportunities for participation and education for men and women. In the world context, Norway is unique and at the top of gender equality. Both sexes participate to a large extent in working life. Men and women share the family's work more and more equally. We have decreed that men and women should have equal rights and opportunities, and no one should be discriminated against on the basis of their gender. Nevertheless, we see that women work more than men part-time, and they earn on average 165,000 kroner less than men per year. In this picture, the role of reporting measures will also be played. It is interesting to observe that a party like the Left, which is absolutely concerned with equality, is at the bottom, together with the Advance Party, in terms of the proportion of female political top candidates. In this area, we in the Center Party have done a great job. One has to do that in a way, and then all the measures have to be seen as important. I know that this is important for the Left, and I very much appreciate that the Left promises this proposal. I believe that in many other areas too, they will follow up their interest in all possible measures to improve equality. When a large majority adopted new equality and discrimination laws in our country, the Centre voted against the change because we are concerned that a common law will weaken gender equality. This was also pointed out by several hearing bodies when the legislative proposal was being consulted. One of the amendments was aimed at removing the obligation of activity and presentation. The obligation of activity survived while the obligation of presentation was removed. However, Stortinget made a decision asking the government to: ‘Maintain the obligation of activity and accountancy and strengthen it by following the recommendations of the Skjeie Committee for changes and coming back to the Storting in an appropriate manner with a case to this effect.’ The government considers the reporting obligation to be bureaucratic and impractical. The Centre Party, etc. considers, on the other hand, that the obligation is good for gender equality and anti-discrimination work. For example, Negotia reports that their experience shows that enterprises that put the obligation of activity and presentation in the system have gone a long way in gender equality and discrimination. The obligation provides a good overview of the gender situation in the enterprise. That way, we get a better knowledge base to work from. The fact that the disclosure obligation for some businesses has become only a non-substance reporting obligation should not be an argument for removing the obligation. Rather, consider how it can be improved. The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman has made some concrete proposals on how to improve the obligation in order to make it easier to deal with, while respecting its objective. Although last week's decision in this room means that what we know today on this issue, will only have consequences for a very small part of our businesses, it's still an important part, because it's all the big businesses with over 50 employees, and many of them have a lot of employees. We in the Central Party will therefore support the proposers in that today's obligation to make presentations must be continued until the government makes a new proposal. Gender equality and discrimination require long-term focus and continuity, as well as active gender equality measures, as such an obligation. That's what works, and we believe that it also applies to all future work in this area. We have to take advantage of all the possibilities we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e3982	Norway is still not an equal society. Powers, opportunities and wealth are unevenly distributed between men and women. It makes women less free than men. Therefore, a good feminist gender equality policy is a policy of liberation. One of the most important venues for this liberation struggle is employment and business, because it is precisely where large parts of the distribution of goods in a society takes place. We see that this distribution of power and wealth between the sexes is not fair. For every hundred bills a man earns, a woman earns 86 kroner. Only one in six top managers is women, and 40 pst. of women, part-time employees, against only 14 pst. of the men. In Norway, through organised women's struggle, we have come a long way in equality in many areas – and we are pleased about that – but without economic equality and freedom, all other equality and freedom become weak and hollow. The poorer economy offers fewer opportunities in life in general. But the fact that women both earn less and work more part-time makes them more economically dependent on a partner. Economic dependence stands in the way of freedom, and the consequences of economic dependence on a partner can be so serious that one does not have the opportunity to break out of, for example: a violent relationship, because one has nothing to fall back on financially. So important is this. That there are far more male than female top leaders, reinforces an uneven power structure at the expense of women's opportunities. Now that the formal equality between women and men is in place, it is precisely the power structures and the distribution into economics and working life that are the next important steps in the fight for women to have as good opportunities as men. Therefore, tools such as the obligation to report and the obligation to do business are so important. These are obligations which in themselves neither give equality nor economic freedom, for that struggle we must wage at many levels, but they require every employer to take a position on equality in his company, and that means that the employees and all of us who are engaged in gender equality have something we can hold responsible for. Therefore, the good tools in the more overarching struggle for economic equality and freedom are. To this end, the Stortinget took the decision to: ‘maintain the obligation of activity and presentation and strengthen it by following the recommendations of the Skjeie Committee for changes and coming back to the Storting in an appropriate manner on a case to this effect’; when we discussed the government's proposal for a new equality law. To remove it, as was proposed by the government, would be to make the toolbox in the fight for equality very much weaker. On the other hand, the case made it clear that 2018 would be a year without reporting obligations, as we know, and therefore we support the Left's proposal to introduce the obligation for the financial year 2018. It is important not to have a rest year in the gender equality struggle in the workplace, and it is important for the predictability of enterprises. However – as has been said – since the promotion of this proposal for a representative, unfortunately the majority on the Stortinget has undermined the proposal through its examination of Prop. 160 L for 2016–2017, on amendments to the Accounting Act. On 5 December, the Board of Directors decided – regrettably – to remove the accounting obligation for about 95 p.m. against SV's votes. by all Norwegian limited liability companies. That makes 95 pst. shall no longer report through the annual report on major societal responsibilities, ranging from environmental impacts of their activities to gender equality. So the majority of the population has decided to drastically weaken that toolbox for a number of important battles and have made the proposal we are dealing with today a much smaller proposal. It'll only apply 5 pst. by the limited liability companies. You have to wonder if one hand knows what the other person is doing. I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that the Left, which has promoted the proposal we are discussing today – which we in SV were pleased to see – was unfortunately also in the position of the Financial Committee and voted to remove the requirement to have an annual report. It is a policy that is not linked, a policy that goes beyond the important gender equality work that remains before women and men in this country have equal opportunities to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4008	On behalf of the Left, I shall take the floor for a brief statement on the background to present the proposal. The self-debate debate on the obligation to distribute was debated at the time when the new equality and discrimination law was handled in the Grand Duchy six months ago, so I don't see the great reason to spend a lot of time on the arguments from then on, but to conclude that the majority of people think it's an important equality measure that companies that have an obligation to deliver an annual report should also use a little of this message to make good the equality in the enterprise. Thus, when the debate on the new equality and discrimination law was held in the Stortinget in June, the vote was such that we adopted both a new law without obligation to distribute and a proposal that the government should come back to the Stortinget with a proposal for a stronger obligation to distribute, in line with the recommendations of the Skjeie Committee. Since such a strengthened obligation according to the law must be sent on the phone, it is understandable that she would not be able to be ready for the new law to enter into force on 1 January. We would then have had a situation where the obligation to distribute would apply in 2017, disappear in 2018 and then come back in a sharp version from about 2019. It wasn't the intention of the Storting in June, and an obligation that comes and goes that way, creates little permissive conditions for the companies, and it would also increase the chances of a new obligation being experienced as a burden. This was the background to the Left taking the initiative to clean up a proposal that is intended to pass on today's legal status, i.e. without change from that in force in 2017, until the government has made proposals for legislative change, until this is agreed by the Storting and until the law changes come into force. I notice that the Council of State did not have any comments on the legislative proposal that was made in the proposal for a representative, so I take the view that the legal situation is being passed on with the Bill adopted today. Then there is one exception to the rule, and it is due to the fact that the Stortinget – which has already been done in detail – caused a number of changes in accounting laws on Tuesday, just enough with the voices of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Center Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. These changes lead to simplifications for enterprises, and the size of the enterprise is removed, among other things. the obligation for small enterprises to deliver annual reports. It's for many reasons a wise change, but it also made the obligation to distribute no longer relevant to the same companies. For all other enterprises that are still required by law to provide annual reports to public authorities, public agencies, the obligation to distribute shall be as at present. I also assume that when the government comes up with a proposal for a new and strengthened obligation, there will be consistency between the obligation of activity and the obligation to distribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4023	We have had many good debates in this Chamber on equality, and I just have to say for the Christian People's Party that although we have come a long way in Norway, even though we are in the world summit on equality, we are not at all in port. Policy instruments are still needed to create equality, as well as in the workplace. So we're dealing with a legislative proposition in ours. The Christian People's Party was opposed to bringing together the Equality Act and the Discrimination Laws. We were very concerned that both the duty of activity and the duty of presentation should be carried out, and there is no doubt that the Christian People's Party still believes so. Then I take note that the last Tuesday was a decision in Stortinget that companies with less than 50 employees – it is called simplification – no longer need to be obliged to make a presentation. I think we just have to say that this is a theme we're coming back to, and then I also look forward to the State Council coming to Stortinget with its annual equality orientation. It was one of the things we got in place when we treated the equality message. I also look forward to not least tripartite cooperation in the field of equality. I think this is a theme we're going to have to follow closely in the future, because equality is not something of itself, rather in a workplace, and rather in jobs with fewer than 50 employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4033	As others have pointed out here, the Stortinget passed a new, common law on equality and discrimination in June of this year, a law that strengthens equality and which not least specifies and strengthens the obligation of activity. However, the Storting decided not to continue the employer’s obligation to report on equality. The government wants to reduce time-consuming and bureaucratic burdens on business, and we believe that compliance with the obligation of activity should instead be ensured through positive measures such as guidance and dissemination of knowledge. The equality is not and does not fall under the obligation to report. However, the size decided on a request decision asking the government to maintain the obligation to report and to strengthen it by following the recommendations of the Skjeie Committee for changes and returning to Stortingen on a case-by-case basis. I am pleased that the majority of the committee also sees that the request decision requires a legislative amendment. A legislative amendment must also be sent at public hearings, so this has not been done in time for a legislative amendment to come into force from 1 January 2018. I will make a thorough assessment of the design of the employer’s obligation of activity and presentation and come back to Stortinget on a case to this effect, with a view to that change being effective from 1 January 2019. Since the activity obligation has been extended by the new law, the reintroduction of the current reporting obligation will not correspond to the activity obligation. I take note that the majority of the Committee believes that an unforeseeable situation for employers would arise if they were given one year without reporting obligations before it was reintroduced, and that they therefore made proposals to continue today's reporting obligation as of 1 January 2018. Then, of course, the Stortinget has made a different decision, a week ago, and changed the Accounting Act, and I am happy that the majority does not adopt the changes in the paragraphs 3 to 3 of the seventh paragraph. The change in the obligation of presentation to comply with the obligation of activity has to be done – as I was told – in a thorough manner, which both produces good results and is manageable for employers. And I can assure the Committee that I will come back to Stortinget with a case on the obligation of activity and presentation with a view to bringing the changes into force on 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4058	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4063	I hear that the representatives on the right argue for their original desire to abolish the obligation of presentation and activity that it is bureaucratic and has not worked well enough. That's the argument we hear from the right-hand side, and also in other policy areas. I remember that when we received a report in 2013 that the youth guarantees in Nav did not have enough target achievement, the Right quickly said that we would remove the guarantees. We in the Working Party believe in doing things better when something doesn't work well enough. As we strengthened the youth guarantees so that more young people got into work, we also take into account that many companies believe that the reporting and activity obligation does not work well enough. We put down the so-called Skjeie Committee when we were in government, and they put forward a NOU proposing a new and offensive equality policy. One of the handles proposed by the Skjeie Committee was to make qualitative changes in the obligation to report and to do business in order to become an even more precise tool for increasing equality in the labour market. That's also why we proposed this in this Chamber in June, and I'm glad we got a majority in favour of it. Unfortunately, this will not apply to the vast majority of enterprises in this country, as that is 90pst. by Norwegian enterprises have fewer than 50 employees. I regret that decision, and I would also say that the Workers' Party in that position had a comment that said that the prerequisite for such a decision was that the report was under social responsibility. But it wasn't like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4072	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4088	On behalf of the case rapporteur, Silje Hemdal, I would first like to thank the Committee for working quickly and efficiently on this matter. In this case, the Government considers that certain aspects of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman Act and the Discrimination Study, adopted in June 2017, require clarification before it enters into force on 1 January 2018. The Ministry proposes two amendments which the Committee has considered and which it also welcomes. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality proposes an amendment to the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3 of the Discrimination Ombudsman Act, so that it is clear that the disclosure obligation of the public authorities in the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3 of the Act also applies to the duties of the Ombudsman in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 1 of the Act, cf. Section 5, third paragraph. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality also proposes a change to the Discrimination Ombudsman Act, so that a new second paragraph of Section 7 is included, stating that the Discrimination Study should not enforce the Equality and Discrimination Act. In this respect, the Committee also refers to the previous legislative work in the Grand Duchy in the course of the June 2017 review. In the Committee's work, the majority, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, point out that the Discrimination Study should not enforce the law in family life and other purely personal matters, as it also results from majority observations in the Inst. 389 L for 2016-2017. The Working Party will refer to the comments and suggestions of the Working Party in the Innst. 388 L for 2016–2017 on the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman Act and Discrimination Study. In this, the Labour Party underlined the need to ensure that organisational changes in the field of gender equality and discrimination would actually lead to greater equality. Furthermore, the Party promoted proposals to maintain the current structure and location of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and to empower it to settle labour-related and simple-case situations and to strengthen the budget. The member of the Central Party in the Committee refers to the Central Party during the examination of the law on the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Discrimination Study in Innst. 388 L for 2016-2017 made proposals to strengthen the role of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and to maintain today's tasks and structure and to empower the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman to impose upsizing in labour matters and to compensate in simple cases. The minority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, indicates that their respective parties voted to maintain the current structure by strengthening and extending the mandate of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. They indicate that several relevant organisations shared the concerns of the respective parties that the reorganisation could lead to a significant weakening of gender equality. Despite the fact that the parties to the proceedings now refer to their primary positions from previous consideration of the laws in this area, the Committee has no proposals for amendments now and therefore unanimously supports the proposals promoted in Prop. 10 L for 2017-2018, which is dealt with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4107	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4124	The Committee has examined this proposal, which proposes changes to the provisions of the social security system relating to the parental pension scheme. These changes will help to make rules easier for users to understand and provide better self-service solutions related to the modernisation of ICT systems in the working and welfare seat. The Committee welcomes the simplifications and solutions that provide better services for users. The Ministry points out in the proposition that the changes could have a negative impact on very few users. Otherwise, the consequences are considered to be very small. There was no disagreement in the committee that we were in favour of simplification, and we were in order for parents to have better opportunities to deal with their parental pension schemes. There was some disagreement about how much weight we should give it that it might have consequences for some users. I would like to thank the Committee for being able to solve this challenge in an excellent way by getting a proposal, letter B, in which we ask the government to come back with an assessment of the consequences it might have, in two years' time, for the users mentioned in the proposal. It became a fine letter B in the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4135	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox Case No. 13–18 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative decisions 4 to 9 inclusive. The President will propose that matters be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4208	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4220	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4229	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 6, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 7, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 8-10, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens The C I recital was amended during the debate and the words ‘in agriculture’ were added. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-10, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking it to establish green growth indicators in line with OECD standards and to provide up-to-date targets per main sector of the Norwegian economy as part of the State budget.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the use of green growth indicators for the Norwegian economy, with the corresponding targets leading to the design of energy and industry policies and the governance of public activities. The annual improvement in carbon productivity in the Norwegian economy shall at least exceed the average recommended by the New Climate Economy Report, i.e. at least 5 pst. per year. ‘... Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider proposing amendments to the law or other measures to ensure reasonable compensation for damage caused by waves in the event of extreme weather.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4281	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a public sample to be set up to assess the impact of the introduction and use of new genetic technology methods. The selection must be broadly composed in order to highlight as many perspectives as possible, to discuss background and to identify the need for new knowledge.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4300	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to stop the ongoing sale of state forest.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4319	The number indicates that we're too many in the hall. It's going to be 102, but this is going to be 106. I have to ask that we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4324	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4338	Could there be anyone in the SV who actually supports this proposal and has voted in favour?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4344	Yes, we vote in favour, but there are still too many in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4349	The number of representatives in the room must be counted. – Now the number of people in the hall must vote, and the Storting can continue to vote. We vote for the last proposal one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4363	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that public authorities take special responsibility for setting efficiency requirements in user-paying areas and that the effectiveness of electronic reporting benefits users in the form of lower fees.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e4380	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to extend the area of operation of international ferries in the Norwegian International Ship Register.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive review of the industrial policy instrument in order to ensure seamless instruments throughout the innovation chain.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks that the forest industry as a whole should receive no less support from the bioeconomy programme than it did when the three-based innovation programme continued to exist at the end of 2016.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate how information offices can contribute more to information on, inter alia, the environment, climate and health.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e7273	It shall be counted over A II to XIV and XVI and XVII.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e7283	It is voted over A XV point 5. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e7297	It goes over the rest of the A XV. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e7611	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e8689	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e8846	It shall be counted against C II, III, IV and VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e8856	It's over C.V. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e8888	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e9642	During the debate, Mr Pollestad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2017 State Budget makes the following changes: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 900 82 Andøya Space Center, transferable [[new]] 10000000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e11241	We then go back to case number. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e11250	During the debate Cecilie Myrseth has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for further changes in legislation and practices affecting the overall considerations of the Participant Act and the Marine Resource Act to be taken into account by the Government after the Great Britain has addressed the paper on fisheries policy.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e11289	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e11305	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 4–6, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 8-10, from Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 11 and 12, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 13, from Abid Q. Raja on behalf of Left In the course of the debate, proposal No. 13 converted into a transmission proposal. Proposal No. 13 sounds in modified form: ‘It is recommended that the Government conclude the agreement between Norway and the Netherlands on the rental of detention centres in the Netherlands.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any responsibilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to adequately explain the specific guarantee schemes in place by the government to ensure that foreign-salary convictions are treated in accordance with internationally recognised conventions.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a plan for the Taraldrud Police Emergency Centre to ensure the local population against traffic and noise from the centre.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e11360	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 to 10, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to secure Mold Dinghui’s defensive courtrooms.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the rapid construction of new prison sites at Vik incarceration.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to start rapidly the construction of new prison sites on Sunnmøre, Ilseng and Slide Island, and in the Mos Sea and Hustad.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e11387	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a national plan to establish regional training and preparedness centres for together-cleaning and competence building between emergency and emergency seats.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e11404	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to earmark the funds for the State Children’s House within the framework of the Police Directorate.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an action plan setting out concrete objectives for the implementation of equality in the ministry and the underlying agencies within a specific timeframe.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to take clear action to improve equality and diversity in the Ministry of Justice and Defence and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with an overview of the actions taken.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e11433	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a follow-up evaluation of the pilot project with welfare bonds and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to explain how the Progress Party's proposal on job guarantee for police students, cf. Document 8:97 S [[2012-2013]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an analysis of future tasks and needs for police officers and women and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e13530	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e13845	It shall be weighed over A II, III and V to IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e13855	It shall be weighed over A IV. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e13996	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15272	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Atle Simonsen on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party proposal No 2, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Atle Simonsen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a proposal for a state allowance to compensate for the relief aid and care allowance of the people’s rights and the municipal care allowance.’ The right has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15301	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to examine in detail the legislative proposals set out in the Innst. 59 L and the impact of the proposals on equality, integration, the best interests of the child in the short and longer term, EEA legislation, labour incentives and the working line, responsibilities between state and local authorities, rules on leave according to the Labour Environment Act and other societal consequences. [[2017-2017]] The Government shall also investigate, where appropriate, the following: coordination between care allowance, relief and care allowance when these benefits are provided for the same period. The investigation must be carried out before the amendments enter into force. The majority asks the government to promote a separate case when the investigation is available, where the Storting may take a final view on the changes.» The right and left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15373	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on A and proposal No 1, from the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:17 LS [[2017-2018]] The Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15390	With the result of the vote, the proposal by the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski lapses.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15404	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15420	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘During 2018, the government is asked to promote a separate case for the Stortinget to extend the care allowance scheme, with a right to 100 pst. compensation for previous income, so that care allowance can also be provided after 1 300 days of benefit to persons who are caring for children under 18 years of age who have a disease or injury and who are in need of continuous supervision and care and thus become an unlimited benefit for parents with long-term ill children.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of a scheme for which no allowance is granted for the first five days per year. children during the entire 18-year period, if their parents have five days of care available at the start of the care period.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to determine the consequences of incorporating parents who have not earned rights into the scheme.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15655	A new third sentence is added to Section 26-2 of Section III. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15669	It shall be weighed over other parts of III, and I, II, IV, V and VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15679	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15690	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15699	During the debate, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15769	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Right-wing Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:61 L [[2017-2018]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15784	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15799	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15856	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15866	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15965	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15975	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e15998	Case No. 13–18 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative decisions 4 to 9 inclusive. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-11.ana.ud89e16045	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? Nobody does. - The meeting's been cancelled.
