ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e24	The representative Morten Wold, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternates of the Eastfold counties, Monica Carmen Gåsvatn and Rowena von Ohle, now take the seat. The representative, Mr Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e42	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative from the representatives of Anette Trettebergstien, myself, Masud Gharakhani, Arild Grande and Rigmor Aasrud on Sunday as a day off for as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e47	The representative, Mr Reiten, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e52	On behalf of the representatives of Tore Storehaug, Olaug V. Bollestad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to reintroduce the ban on 19 reptile species in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e57	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e73	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet at oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e82	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. The Workers' Party will guarantee that fisheries resources will continue to belong to the people in common in the future. We will ensure a fishing time fleet and that the nationality requirement is maintained in accordance with the provisions of the participant law. For us in the Workers' Party, it is important to insist that we have a varied fleet structure, which will once again help create jobs, to get lights in the houses along the coast, all year round. It's not the Council of State's policy. The fishing fleet and the community have been through a long period of debate, with uncertainty about framework conditions and a piece by piece-and-part policy, as well as all the other uncertainties you have to deal with as a fisherman, like weather and wind, sizes of allowances and a troubled world – to mention something. State council Sandberg has on several occasions promoted matters that contribute to more unrest, and one of these we have discussed in this Chamber earlier. So the Council of State has chosen to set aside the participation law's activity requirements for Gunnar Klo AS, and as far as the industry and we know, this is the first time the industry is allowed to take over a coastal fishing vessel. The Council of State has not been able to explain well what distinguishes this matter from many other matters along the coast, and there is therefore good reason to be concerned about what is going on in the future. Next week, a case is to be dealt with in the Stortinget, and the majority of the Advisory Committee of the Stortinget asks the Government not to use the exemption of the participation law for the acquisition of coastal fishing by industry until further clarifications with the Stortinget have been made. It is now announced that more applications will be made, based on the same situation as Clo. How will the Council of State deal with these applications?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e93	I do not share the reality that the representative Myrseth here is trying to promote. In my travel activities along the coast, where I meet both fishermen and industry, I see that there is great optimism. There's never been any more fish in the north. There's never been any greater investment ambition. You look very optimistic about it. We will probably also get record export figures this year. It's going pretty well along the coast. Norwegian fishermen are doing reasonably well. The fishing industry is doing well, but there is a lack of profitability. Drawing a picture that there is concern among Norwegian fishermen, that there is concern in the seafood industry – that is an opinion I do not share. But I'm recording a disturbance out there because the largest party in the National Assembly, the Workers' Party, is unable to take a position on what course you want in this policy. It's disturbing. The announcement by the Workers' Party of the creation of stability and predictability for the Norwegian fisheries and seafood industry is disturbing. I follow exactly the same driving rules as the Workers' Party did over eight years in the Red-Green Government, both in the case of the participant law, in the case of the Sea Resource Act, and in the case of regulating from day to day, to the best for the fisheries industry. The fact that the Workers' Party now wants to change the division of labour between big business and government because the election has been lost is another debate, but I would rather the Workers' Party had been involved in processes that had created predictability, forward-looking technology and structures, so that we can bring even more to the community from what is the property of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e100	What I wish for was that the Council of State could answer the question for once, but it is obviously quite difficult in this matter. The working party is concerned with the long-term and predictability of the fishing industry, and we are waiting under stress when the Minister intends to present the case on the Eidesen Committee for the Storting, so that we could actually discuss overall fisheries policy in this Chamber as well. I hear the Minister for Fisheries takes on the role of creating peace and long-term in the industry. It's not a description of reality I share. You don't even need a quick search on Retriever to see the unrest that this minister is helping to create on a case-by-case basis along the coast, and you don't have to go back any further than in ours, as a matter of scrapping the whole duty system. There was concern, and a rise was made along the coast against the policy of the Minister for Fisheries. It became so impossible for the minister that he had to scrap the proposal. So my last question to the Minister is: What concrete plans does the Minister have to actually create the long-term and predictability of the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e111	The first is that I have contact with the industry every single day and make the adjustments that are necessary for the industry to have the best possible framework conditions, which also provide the best results for the community. With regard to the long-term, it's a little exciting and a little interesting, I think, that the representative Myrseth is still asking for a big message on the basis of the Eidesen Committee. There are no more than fourteen days since we were on the same stage, where for the tenth time I confirmed that this council will present a big message about the Eiden committee, but I clearly have to send a letter to various representatives to confirm it again. This has been read and decided for a long time. Now the representative Myrseth is new at Stortinget and may not have got it with him, but this has been the signal all the way. From Eidesen’s position in December 2016, this has been the intention of this Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e118	There will be follow-up questions – first Nils Kristen Sandtrøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e123	The fish shall belong to the people in common, and the great fear of the fishing environment is that the exemption and interpretation made by the Minister for Fisheries under the Participant Act allow foreign companies through industry to take over ownership of the Norwegian coastal fishing fleet. The question that we need to get a clear and clear answer from the Council of State is whether the Minister of Fisheries can guarantee that foreign interests do not enter and make purchases in the Norwegian coastal fishing fleet through ownership in industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e130	I do not know how many times the Council of State and others have clarified this – but let me do it again: To have a derogation from the activity requirement of the Act of Participation § 6 has nothing to do with nationality requirements – nothing. Zero. I've clarified this over and over again. But the fact that the Workers' Party and the opposition are constantly trying to create a fear that foreign ownership will take over Norwegian fishing resources is with respect to not reporting well. This has nothing to do with the law of participants, it has nothing to do with nationality requirements. This is the participant law § 6, which the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens have used in a number of other contexts. But it's interesting to notice that the last time you made exceptions to the nationality requirement was May 5, 2013, and it was the red-green ones that did it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e135	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e140	I should like the Minister for Fisheries to be able to try to answer the questions he is given, because my impression is that when the arguments are small, the words are big. The centre party is concerned that we should have active fishermen throughout the country, and that there are fishermen who want quotas, therefore this Clo-saka is so important. The Storting and the Business Committee have presented a case in which we have both informed the Council of State that he is on the wrong course in the matter, and we have put forward a proposal that the so-called Eidesen Selection should be submitted to the Stortinget. Then I wonder if the Council of State will take care of what the Stortinget says, both when he decides the complaint at Klo-saka, and in future cases – or my councillor that he stands above the grand majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e148	The head of the Advisory Committee of the EEAS has also expressed doubts about the nationality requirement in the public, by letter of readers. I'm sorry about that. The fact that the head of the Steering Committee, which is an important committee, disseminates this kind of approximateness, is regrettable. I would like to answer that one more time, but it does not seem to be useful to answer. I can answer again and again, but I get the same questions again and again and again. As for the debate that is due to take place on Monday, 11 December, I await it before concluding on something related to the question here. But if anyone tries to suggest that I don't have respect for the Storting, I will strongly reject it. If it's something I really respect, it's the Storting. But then, too, the Storting and the representatives must listen to the answers you receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e157	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e162	‘Respect’ is also what my question to the Council of State is about — the respect of the majority of states. In the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee on the matters to be dealt with on Monday, which deals with the famous rights of exemption for Gunnar Klo AS on coastal fishing, the Committee states – and here I ask the Council of State to follow closely with and use its ears – the following: ‘The majority oppose the use of the derogation in the case in question and ask the Government not to use the exemption for the acquisition of coastal fishing vessels until further clarifications have been made with the Stortinget.’ How will the Council of State deal with the majority of gross domestic product?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e172	It is a little difficult to deal with decisions that may be taken on Monday. It is very special to stand in the spontaneous question hour and, as it were, to look in the spell as to how the debate goes on Monday. But I'm waiting for the debate on Monday. I've also, of course, read the statement, and there are many more interesting majority there, among other things. that SV and the representative of Knag Fylkesnes suffer a tumultuous loss in terms of their policy, which is that they want to instruct the Council of State and the Department, which is not the case. It's very interesting in that way. I await the debate on Monday, and both Knag Fylkesnes and others sitting on the nutrition committee will have the answers adapted, and then there will be a debate which the Committee itself has decided to hold on 11 December.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e179	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e184	I expect the Council of State has developed well hearing. We want a strong participation law from the Left. I understand that the Minister for Fisheries has also repeated – without having been directly asked about it – that the exemption for Gunnar Klo AS is a one-off case. Then it could be interesting to hear the Minister's opinion: Is the Minister certain that this matter will not trigger similar or more cases, and that this will not contribute to forming the precedent for similar individual cases, so that we can then get an eroding of the participant law, to which the Left is strongly critical? That is what I would like to hear from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e191	The first party that wanted to change the participant law and let the industry own fishing vessel was left in 1946, I think. But to the question, this is not a violation of the law of participants. With respect for the Stortinget, who, through a unanimous decision here in Stortinget, has said this: This is an exception under Section 6. I, the Council of State, have to deal with all the pending applications. All applications that come, I have to deal with, and then you get yes or no. One more application has been made in respect of exemptions for owning a fishing boat. That's where I said no. Otherwise, I have not registered any more applicants. The Gunnar Klo case is special. First, you had 49 pst. ownership of this ship for 12 years – very special. It's a fifth-generation business – very special. Secondly, it is one of four enterprises in a small area that do not have safe and predictable access to raw materials.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e200	Steinar Reiten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e205	We in the Christian People's Party also want to make it clear that we do not want a new practice regarding the exemption for the purchase of coastal fishing vessels. We will come back to that in the matter to be debated on Monday. At the same time, there is always a danger in such matters as this that the temperature becomes high and the rhetoric becomes hard. We have noticed that the Council of State invites a broad settlement when the Eidesen Committee's suspension is to be dealt with by Stortinget. How does the Council of State see that we can arrange the work so that we get the broad similarities that the industry depends on when good and fair arrangements are to be created for the entire Norwegian fleet structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e212	I thank you for the question. It is very important, especially in the case of the Eidesen Committee. It is important to clarify that the Eidesen Committee relates to the quota section, so if you want a comprehensive review of the fisheries policy, it will be more extensive. I record that in the setting of the case to be dealt with on Monday, there are assumptions that you should have a cancellation notice based on the Eidesen Committee, and I think that is good. But as the representative is also concerned, it is important to have broad and good processes, with a broad anchoring – in industry, along the coast and politically. That is why – after summarising the hearing, which lasted until April/May this year – I have now started the job of distributing it in the barrels, because this is about four to five stalks. And we can't decide one of the parts alone. Everything has to be connected here if the pieces don't fall apart. That is why I have set up broad rounds with the nutrition committee, the fisheries policy spokespersons, where we take balls for balls and discuss through this. There will also be round table conferences out there, which I invite all the parties to join.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e219	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e225	My question goes to the EEA Minister and EU Minister. Norway is a great energy nation. By ensuring Norwegian ownership and control of its nation’s natural resources, energy and important infrastructure and managing it wisely, we have built one of the world’s best countries to live in. Norway is a decisive exporter of energy to the EU. Of course, it is attractive for the EU to gain more control over Norwegian energy and the infrastructure associated with it. Through the EU Energy Agency, the EU is taking a long step towards controlling the infrastructure linked to energy transmission – not by owning but by controlling. With planned export cables for electricity, half of Norwegian electricity can be exported to the EU today. Today we have a Nordic power market with excess power, which gives us low prices. With multiple transmission cables, we get a European power market – high prices. So now the government is proposing to give the EU's Energy Agency the power to monitor and adopt rules that ensure that the flow flows according to market conditions and according to the EU's wishes, not our own national concerns. How do my Council of State make it possible to ensure reasonable energy for both our industry and the Norwegian people in the future, if the EU prohibits Norway's competition rules to protect Norwegian industry, at the same time as we, according to the government's proposal, will give the EU power over the infrastructure that transfers Norwegian energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e236	With regard to the EU Energy Union and its development, I agree with Mr Navarsete that Norway has an incredibly good starting point. We are a nation with great power resources. We have a deregulated power market. It's been deregulated since the 1990s. We have a Nordic well-functioning force cooperation that makes us already used to the cross-border exchange of power, and Norway is well positioned in that work. Now the Stortinget has to deal with these issues that relate to the connection to the energy agency Acer. ACER shall now have a completely limited competence in terms of disagreement between national regulatory authorities. In the case of power station concessions, the management of natural resources, the Norwegian legislation continues to apply, to the Norwegian authorities, and it will not be affected by ACER. In this discussion, I think it is important to look at Norway’s starting point. So I think it's important to look at what limited competence ACER here is going to get. This shall be decisions targeting the NVE, which is the Norwegian regulatory authority in this area. So that there will be dramatic things for Norway in terms of energy issues, in terms of trade in power, I do not agree. I think this is a positive development for Europe's energy market. I believe the development we see, where thinking more about the power sector, where it is thought that reducing greenhouse gas emissions is a task that also requires a well-functioning cross-border energy market, is important. That is why we have brought this matter before Stortinget for consideration. We believe that linking to the Energy Agency will be a reasonable and natural part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e245	I noticed that I did not get an answer to the question I asked. During the EEA/EU distribution held here in the Chamber shortly ago, the Council of State said that Norway had to join the EU’s financial supervision to ensure that Norwegian financial industry is still able to access the entire EU market. So the government continues with the direct crazy claim that surrendering Norwegian sovereignty is necessary to ensure market access. During Question Time on Wednesday, May 25, last year, the Minister of Finance said the same thing twice, but the government had to go back and say that this was the wrong information. Does the Council really think that the EU will no longer buy Norwegian electricity if it does not connect to ACER?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e252	State Council Berger Røsland.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e257	No, I wasn't done. I would like to have an answer to my previous question, it's the most important thing: how will a secure energy and still secure the Norwegian people's reasonable power after one has entered and connected us to ACER? I did not get an answer to that. I would like answers to that, because it is important for Norwegian industry and jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e262	The link with ACER is not what determines the price of Norwegian electricity. The price of Norwegian electricity is determined by completely different issues than whether Norway should connect to an EU regulatory authority to resolve outstanding issues between regulatory authorities at national level. The Norwegian electricity price is determined by completely different factors. It's determined by water capacity in our warehouses, it's about electricity exchange in the Nordic market, it's about our concession terms. This is simply not related to a Norwegian connection to ACER. As far as sovereignty is concerned, it is clear that the agencies we now see coming from the European Union, in more and more fields, were not there when the EEA Agreement was concluded in due course. It creates some challenges for us when, as part of the internal market, we are also linked to these agencies. In this context, we have ensured NVE participation and influence in Acer, which means that Norwegian voice is clearly heard also in terms of the development of the European energy market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e269	It opens for follow-up questions – first Sigbjørn Gülsvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e274	As the representative of Navarsete pointed out in his main question, the EEA Agreement and EU competition rules bind Norway and deprive us of instruments to protect Norwegian industry. However, the government is making it even worse by systematically giving priority to EU interests. One of the first things this government did was go to Brussels to weaken customs protection, among other things. for Norwegian cheese, against the interests of the Norwegian food industry. One has submitted and has also ensured the adoption of a new Article 19 agreement with increased duty-free allowances – a purely gift package for the EU food industry. One has raised the threshold for duty-free imports over the network. And one in the budget has now melted so heavily and so arbitrarily that Orkla alerts in the media that they will seek help from the EU and ESA for government tax policy. Can the Council of State give an example that the government has given priority to Norwegian industry against the interests of the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e281	The President feels that this is well in border countries in relation to the main question, but leaves the Council of State to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e286	I can at least give a good example that this government has had a significant impact in the EU on an important issue of Norwegian district policy, namely to be able to continue the system of differentiated employer fees, which was a question that the former government was unable to resolve in its interaction with the EU side. That, I believe, is an important measure to which this government has sought agreement and has been put through in order to continue. There are many things to address the representative's questions. In the Article 19 negotiations we have increased imports from the EU side, but it is mainly in those products where large imports are already taking place from the EU side to Norway. It is not an agreement that weakens Norwegian agricultural interests, it is already imports of beef, cheese products and ribs from the EU to Norway. Article 19 negotiations are a good result, in view of the agricultural policy pursued by Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e293	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e299	Joining the EU Energy Agency, Acer, links Norway to the EU Energy Union. Then we are in danger of giving up control over important parts of the power sector. It's not just SV that's critical of this. In a consultation note on EU plans, the so-called winter package, it appears that Statnet too is critical. On March 15 this year, Statnett writes: ‘Finally, this becomes a question of whether Member States are willing to place part of the responsibility for security of supply outside national control. Statnet considers that, in any case, the responsibility must be clearly clarified so as not to arise in a situation where there may be confusion as to the responsibility for operational and security of supply.’;» Does the Council share the concern of Statnett here?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e309	The concept that we are connecting to the EU Energy Union was used. The situation is that Norway has voluntarily built power cables to the continent, which makes us export Norwegian electricity, and which makes us have a Nordic well-functioning electricity market. In terms of security of supply, Norway is one of the most highly favoured countries. We have our own power production. With regard to the development of the EU Energy Union as such, it is clear that we have some aspects of our energy market that make us separate from the European Union – firstly, that our electricity production is already renewable, and, as I said, we do not have the same challenges to, for example. reduce our own power consumption in the house, and that kind of question. As far as security of supply is concerned, I am sure that neither ACER nor the EU Energy Union will weaken Norwegian security of supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e316	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e321	We in SV are concerned about developments in Norwegian fisheries. We had good times with very good catches, good prices and low interest rates. It has given very good income to all those working in the fisheries sector. But this is a nourishment of swings with nature, stock and market. That is something that the fisheries policy must take on board. But does the government? In the last few years, we've seen a time-lapse of prices to get into Norwegian fishing. The price gap has great consequences. First of all, they with access to a lot of money are those who can afford to buy in. Young people are effectively excluded, and recently we have seen that in several coastal communities, no one can afford to take over when the old fisherman goes out. Access to the sea means less, access to money more, for anyone involved in fishing. Secondly, price growth has led to a debt crisis. Fishery auditors and accountants have the longest time running alarm. The indebtedness within the rail layers is now between 50 and 100 pst. higher than the average for Norwegian enterprises. Many are now afraid that we are entering Icelandic conditions, where speculative price growth created a bubble that broke, with disastrous consequences far beyond the border of Iceland. We're about to get such a bubble in Norway as well. The problem is that the government is doing everything possible to blow hot air into this bubble: removing county boundaries, increasing quota ceilings, liberalising the instructions, and now proposing a significant increase in the size of coastal fleets – not to mention Klo-saka, which we have just discussed, which will also lead to more actors coming in and pushing up prices. Is the Council of State at all concerned about development?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e334	At least I'm not worried about the examples of the Fylkesnes ended with. Using the Klo case as an example that there will be pressure on the prices, I think it is a mistake, and I do not know if I share the whole and full concern of the representative of Fylkesnes. But I've registered that the County is very concerned about this and takes it up in a number of contexts, and I think that's good. The last time the representative of Fylkesnes brought this up, was at the meeting of the Nord fishing boat, and the answer the representative got from the shipowners there was that there was no need to worry, because you had control. But this is related to the big discussion about the resource rate. At regular intervals, the Storting has assessed the resource rate — in 1997 and 2007. The size made the same decision both times. When we talk about resource interest rates, Stortinget has decided that this is going back to the industry and the coast. Now we're facing this question again. This question comes up again through the Eiden Committee and the quota committee. But we are going into more recent times, and conversion is very important for everyone – not that there has not been any conversion into Norwegian fishing in the past, it has been since 1946, when we got our first fisheries minister. But it's clear that the equipment and technology part and research are moving at a fast pace. The industry needs to invest in order to also follow up the requirements of a sustainable governance in the future that come from a political perspective. These requirements are becoming tougher and tougher in the future. Norway has been good in terms of population research and management, but we need to improve. It also requires investments, both at fishing and at industrial level.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e343	What surprises me is that the Minister for Fisheries has not considered the increase in the price of fishing. I asked the Minister for Fisheries about a year ago if he could give an overview of the price developments for quota factors. He could then inform Stortinget that he did not have it. He didn't have that information available. I would not be surprised if the Minister for Fisheries did not have an overview of the level of debt in the fisheries sector either. These are the community's resources, which it will fall off. That's what our base rate is. Then it's of significance to the nation of Norway what the leverage ratio of the actors are here. What should be the maximum level of indebtedness for actors hosting Norway's common resources? It is obvious that it should be of interest to the Minister for Fisheries and not least to prevent this youth and coastal community from happening. I would like to ask again: does the Minister not see any sign that this could have negative consequences for young people, for coastal communities and for the structures of Norwegian fisheries?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e352	I see that these are challenges, and this is what you work with every day in the field of fisheries and industry. The industry is working hard on this every day. The changes and structural changes I'm making, I think, are actually a part of doing something about the challenges we're seeing here. But it is clear that when you start with the fisheries policy, you have to have as many ships as possible, and you have to have as many industrial facilities as possible, that will be a challenge. But I believe that this government and former governments have really taken young people seriously. There are a number of schemes that exist today, and are being reinforced, which means that we are now recruiting young people more and more. For the first time in 15 to 20 years, we now have greater recruitment in fisheries, especially in Finland. And there are people under the age of 30 who are now being recruited.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e359	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e364	I do not know whether the Minister for Fisheries intended to say what he just said, but it is a little alarming if we have a Minister for Fisheries who does not aim to have the most jobs in Norway of the fishing resources – both in industry and at sea. It is important that local youth is able to buy and become active without becoming a slave to debt. Majority and over-indebtedness are something we know from a lot of areas, and we are concerned about the development of debt, for example. in households and in the housing sector. Then there's reason to be concerned about an industry where these loads increase a lot. The point here must be that it is as much local youth as possible who find a professional path linked to the fish. The question then is, does the Minister have any new measures to ensure that young people can buy in without becoming life-time debt slaves?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e373	Did the representative hear Andersen right? I said the number of ships, not the number of employees. There must be no objective to have the largest possible vessel, and there is nothing other than the number of people working on this. On one vessel you can have one, on one vessel you can have three, on one vessel you can have forty. That's going to be a difference. I have ambitions to get even more people employed in Norwegian fisheries, seafood and industry, but then you have to face the future with realism. You can't regulate yourself against economic realities. I have to say that yes, I am very busy getting young people into fishing. So we're going to do it in a lot of ways. I meet right as there are young people who have invested and are happy to go into both shrimp fishing and other types of fishing. It happens pretty much and often, actually. But the fact that young people in this area have to have an automatic way of getting into a business and getting between 3 and 4 million. kr added to the table, is a little difficult to see, because you don't get it in other types of industries either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e380	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e386	The Minister of Fisheries has really charmed Stortinget today through the notion of ‘how not to answer questions’. So I hope that – despite being new to the Storting – I may be able to get answers in this round. Because, as Knag Fylkesnes says, with increased quota ceilings, with increased prices for rights and fewer boats, it will be even more difficult for young people to enter the industry. And it's also related to what we talked about in the past. Will it have any effect on the active use of the exemption to grant extended ownership – will this together have any negative consequences, as the Minister can see?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e391	When I make these changes, it's because I have faith that it will turn out positive. In the case of the Klo case – again – I make these changes, among other things. in order to ensure that this ship remains in this municipality, in order to ensure that this ship supplies raw material to this industrial enterprise, which will in turn ensure profitable, full-year jobs. That's what I really thought, a total mass was going to cheer. It is not my job to charm Stortinget, but it is my job to tell Stortinget that I actually believe in the grips I am doing to strengthen Norwegian fisheries and the Norwegian fishing industry. That's my answer. And I mean, with respect to reporting, that I have answered all the questions I have received from the representative Myrseth – not just once, but twice, three times – but I like to repeat it. I think the Klo case is part of securing predictable, profitable jobs, and I thought we all had an ambition to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e400	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e405	Since, in the previous round, I received a motion of censure from the Minister for Fisheries, my question of follow-up goes to the Minister for the EEA and the EU in this matter. It is clear that increasing capital requirements puts pressure on both the activity requirement and the nationality requirement. After all, there have been some legal assessments relating to the nationality requirement, and the Minister for Fisheries is sure that it does, but my question to the Minister for the EEA and the EU is: Does it have contact with the EU side when it comes to the nationality requirement, and can the Minister for Fisheries be as sure as the Minister for Fisheries that the EU will not ever attack the Norwegian nationality requirement in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e412	I am not aware that there has been contact with the EU side, but there may be something I need to investigate and come back to. It is certainly a relevant question that the representative asks. It is possible that the Minister for Fisheries has further information about this contact, but I am not aware that there has been contact in this connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e417	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e422	Fish are important, but so is knowledge! So I have a question for the knowledge minister. There has been a consensus in Stortinget that we should now introduce a teaching norm. There is a strong need in Norway to have qualified teachers. All the research shows that there are qualified teachers who equalise differences, and all the research shows that having teachers who know the subjects they teach is what also promises the weakest students. In 2016, 13500 teach in primary and secondary schools in Norway without having approved teacher education or equivalent pedagogical competence. In special education it is even worse. Two thirds of all special education in Norway is carried out by people who do not have the expertise in special education. This is a huge challenge for Norwegian school. When the council came back, there was a new norm on the table. Has the Council of State begun to make a plan for how to recruit enough teachers in such a standard, which makes it not a ‘adult norm’, but actually becomes a standard for teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e433	First, thank you very much for the question. It is nice not to be forgotten completely when you have been on leave! It's true, as the representative says, that the government budget ended up with a decision on a teacher's norm, and there are a number of practical issues about keeping out the fundamental counter-representations. One of them points out to the representative, that it's not that we automatically have all of these thousands of teachers to recruit from. We also know, as the representative says, that there are many non-qualified people in school today. In addition, a teaching norm is likely to be set up in such a way that the large funds will come to the big cities, while many smaller municipalities will have zero new teaching positions or very few. It is estimated that Oslo will probably receive 600-800 posts, a state like Finnmark, the whole Finnmark county, will perhaps get a handful – give and take. But what we're doing now is following what the majority of the Storting has decided, and trying to see how this can be done in the best possible and most practical way. We're now getting numbers, we're getting new GSI numbers, so information from the municipalities during this month that we're also going to use for the analysis. We're going to try as hard as we can to do this so that we get qualified teachers. But it's also that no government and no large-scale majority can eliminate the realities out there. We have to deal with them. You can't conjure up teachers who aren't there. We may not be able to counteract any negative effects, for example. that large municipalities like Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim, which are going to have hundreds of new teaching positions, can risk pulling teachers away or recruiting new ones that could instead have jobs in North Norway, where we know we have teaching shortages. Besides, it was very precious to society that I was in paper school. So my wife and I have decided for the sake of the state budget not to have more children!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e444	I think that is a decision that belongs in the home, so there I shall not point anything out! I agree with all the considerations that the Council of State has, but that means that we have to make a plan for how we can recruit more teachers. It is possible that this is going to be about both wages and salaries, continuing training and ensuring that recruitment plans are made and also starting to find out how to get a lot of teachers back from journalistic professions to Norwegian school, for example. There are many professional groups that have been stepped up with teachers with good skills who could do a good job at school. So my follow-up question is, do I understand that the council has understood the problem, but is he willing to make a plan to solve it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e451	To the best of our ability, we need to make a plan to solve this and make sure that what the Storing and the majority parties have decided is implemented in the best possible way. What's important to us is that a norm comes into place that the government and the parties have decided, but also that it becomes a norm with a real content. The problem is not to make a paper determination that says that so and so many teachers there should be in each school, the problem is to make sure you have enough qualified teachers. So there are some things that make it maybe harder than you would think, for example. lure many back to school. One thing is that very many jobs with educational activities elsewhere than in school as teachers. Something else is that the last numbers we got from the SSB showed that about 90 pst. Of those who start school, they actually keep going to school as well. So the myth that it's a huge failure of young teachers, probably isn't right. It's also that wages are not an instrument that the state governs in schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e458	It opens for follow-up questions - first Ketil Kjenseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e464	I come from Uppland, and with today's county division it's the only thing in Norway that doesn't have a teacher training institution. In Oppland, a lot of people have struggled – fortunately, we have many people who want to be teachers in the county, but similarly, it has been challenging for municipalities to ensure that those who want to work in the school apply to just those municipalities. We have 26 municipalities, and a lot of them already have teachers' standards, and there are scattered municipalities with relatively small schools and small classes. With a teacher's norm, it's inland, Uppland and Hedmark, mainly Lillehammer and Hamar running away with the annual works, so it'll lead to the same kind of centralization there. But this is going to be a double challenge when we don't have a teacher training institution and also face a challenge where many teachers miss out on the big cities. What does the Council of State think about doing specifically to solve the challenges out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e469	I don't think we're going to come up with a plan of our own for each state, even for Uppland. But the challenges the representative outlines are the challenges you have to deal with when you've decided to have a teacher's norm, including that we know that it's the biggest classes in the largest cities, and there's a lot of smaller classes in many small municipalities. It means, almost no matter how you turn it around, that the big resources will come to the big cities. They're going to recruit several thousand teachers at the top of the teachers they already have to recruit -- it's not like we're starting at zero. Because of apostasy, because of people who stop and retire, and because the pupils may get bigger, you also have to recruit quite a number of teachers, and we have a teaching shortage as of today. I would like to say that although Uppland does not have a teacher training per se, the Inland has a teacher training course, and I do not think it is a goal that we should have several smaller teacher training courses. Rather, on the contrary, I believe that we should gather large, powerful teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e476	Jette F. Christensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e481	I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the Council of State back. Let's say a little bit about the situation: this year, there are more unskilled teachers in school than in 15 years. 40 pst. by those who teach are without formal learning skills. It is worrying, especially all the time to introduce a new teaching standard and has not been able to get a better situation up to now. Thus, during the Right-Fremskritspart-regierung (Fremskritspart-regierung) there have been several unskilled teachers and fuller classrooms. Does that mean that the government has done so far, hasn't worked, or does it mean that you haven't done so much? And what will you change in the future when you're going to make a new plan? Are you going to continue with what has not worked up to now, which has given us record numbers of unskilled teachers, or will you do something else?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e488	Some of the premises in these questions are crazy, I mean. There is nothing to suggest that there has generally been a fuller classroom in Norway. If you look at the teacher's density in Norwegian school, it's pretty stable. At 40 pst. Of those who teach at school, they're non-qualified, I think they're probably not right, but now I don't remember the exact number here. Then it's absolutely right that in the last year there was an increase in the proportion of non-qualified, i.e. those who don't have teacher training in school. That number has gone up and down. It also went up dramatically under the red-green, before something fell again, even in the red-green period, and then something has gone up again. So I think we have to be so honest to say that it's not going to be any easier – to say it in a nice way – to get fewer non-qualified at school with a teacher's norm. It's simply because the municipality wants to sit and see that they have to have people to fill up these teaching positions, because that requires the law. At the same time, if there's no one available there, a lot of people might fill up with non-qualified. That means we have to continue that work and reinforce it, not stop it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e495	Marit Knutsdatter Strand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e500	I would like to welcome the Council of State back from leave. This autumn, the undersigned and the Deputy Minister of Knowledge have debated whether it is the State or the individual teacher who is responsible for the learning of the students. By means of a budget settlement for the autumn, the Council of State is now required to introduce a standard of teaching against which it is opposed. In fact, the sum of the government's actions is in the process of giving our country a major problem: teaching shortage. This is a lot of evidence, and the Council of State itself has pointed it out. On top of this, many measures taken by the government have undermined the competence of 33 000 teachers. With these premises, does the Council of State consider it realistic to introduce the teaching standard where the Council of State has proposals for new measures that can prevent increasing teaching shortages and more unskilled teachers, or is this a suicide clause that will effectively prevent the teaching norm that the government itself is opposed to?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e507	It is absolutely right that the government parties are against a teacher's norm. However, the decision taken by the four cooperation parties is both that a teaching standard should be introduced and that the ministry should come back with thorough assessments and analyses, for example. related to recruitment and how, simply so that the size should know what this will lead to and how it should be done. So it's the bulk of the population that has to manage that information and figure out what they want to do with it, but we're obviously going to follow up what the Big One has decided. So I think it's a terrible bad idea to do what several opposition parties talk about on every occasion, that's to lower the demands. You can imagine that if we just recruit more, or if we just lower the requirements, for example. To become a teacher, we'll also recruit more people. That's probably true, but we don't just want to have a lot of teachers, we also want to recruit the best in Norway to become teachers. I believe that high intake requirements and high expectations are important, and that is the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e514	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e519	Everyone wants the best teachers, but some of the measures taken by the government, such as: ‘the separation requirement’, of course, has puzzled some of the dream teachers. Erna Solberg's dream teacher, Jan Dubowski, our dream teacher, Håvard Tjora, is no longer qualified, according to the government, to teach in Norwegian school. And while 800 places of study are now empty in teacher training across the country, the Minister of Knowledge clearly believes that if you have the grade 5 on average from high school – yes, maybe higher than that too – 6 in English, but 3 in math, you are not qualified for teacher training to become an English teacher. Then it's hard to recruit. Then I ask the Minister of Knowledge, we have three alternatives: Is it better that dream teachers like Dubowski and Tjora are teachers, that teachers with a high average, but with 3 maths, are teachers, or is it better that 13,500 unskilled teachers continue to teach in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e526	What the representative Karin Andersen says is wrong. No one is given the opportunity to teach in Norwegian school because of the skills we have introduced. What we've decided is two very simple things: we've said that if you're going to teach Norwegian, English and mathematics, you're going to have to get deeper in those subjects. You may want to teach in other subjects, but you need to get deeper in the subjects you teach. We are simply saying that the students, the parents, should know that you have a teacher who has also taken training in the subject they are going to learn away. So we've said another thing. It is that within 10 years that requirement is to be met. So, for example, Håvard Tjora's part means that in ten years he has to take 15 credits in mathematics to still be a math teacher in the Norwegian school. I think that makes sense. It is a paradox that even S.V. believes that all new teachers must meet these requirements, but it does not want to apply to those teachers who are already in school. That means we can't be sure that the students meet a math teacher with education in mathematics before decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e534	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e539	In the professional field, there is currently a greater proportion of non-qualified teachers than in secondary education, especially in the case of lack of pedagogical competence. Then we're well-known that the drop-out rate in high school is highest in the professional field. Therefore, we are still concerned that there is a significant shortage of qualified teachers in the professional fields of study. What action will the Council of State take in the short and longer term to increase the proportion of qualified vocational teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e546	The government has presented – and received support from both the Left and the Christian People's Party – a package that we have called the Professional Teacher Lift. It is both about recruiting more vocational teachers into school, for example. through its own targeted scholarships, and it is about providing continuing training to professionals who are already there. It is quite right, as the representative Gruvan points out, that there are many teachers who have a very good professional background – we need them into school, we need them with the experience and professional competence they have, but they lack pedagogic skills. This is what we're doing. This is allocated to money every year, and I believe that it will also lead to more people taking further education, the more people will be fully qualified, and not only with the valuable practical experience, but also with the pedagogics necessary to become a fully qualified teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e553	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e558	The question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. The introduction of the teaching norm is a major and important victory for all children, who now have access to a larger educational resource than they have today. Several teachers mean more time for each individual student and make a difference in the school days of the children – capturing the problems of earlier, more adapted education and giving more time to create a good learning environment. For the last three years, the Christian People's Party, together with the government parties and the Left, has granted approx. Bn. 1,3 kr for more teachers from 1 to 4. steps to strengthen early efforts. But what has been the result? Given the trend in pupils, this effort has contributed to 198 more teachers at these stages. The allocation should have given close to 1800 more teaching positions of 1–4. steps. Then we think it's time to introduce a school-level teaching standard, which ensures that the students get what they deserve. At the same time, the Christian People's Party is not blind to the challenges posed by the introduction of the teaching norm – some issues that need to be resolved, such as: this with recruitment. But this is always the case when a new reform is introduced; there are some challenges that need to be addressed constructively. I take it as a matter of course that the Council of State will follow the decision of the Storting and implement the teaching norm, but it is unfortunate that there is an impression of uncertainty about whether the decision can be implemented. I am concerned about the somewhat less constructive presentation of the Council of State when, in a debate on this matter in this Chamber and in the media, he creates uncertainty as to whether it is possible to implement the decision. Can the Council of State therefore assure the Storting that he will implement the decision of his own party and work actively to solve the challenges created by the introduction of the norm?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e569	Yes, of course. As I also stressed in my previous post, our job is to follow the majority of the Storting. The government parties have also participated in a budget agreement where the Christian People's Party has had a great impact, an important victory. But it's not credible if we're going to pretend that all the problems we've meant to have with a teacher's norm are gone overnight. It is also not right for me, as the Council of State, to stand here and try to paint what is a number of practical challenges in introducing a teaching norm. We have to do our part to ensure that this is implemented in the best possible way, and we have to give the majority parties exactly what they have asked for in their decisions and comments. But one of the challenges is also what the representative Gruvan points to when he says that this is a gift package for all children, because it is not certain that it is, simply because we know that there are probably many municipalities – perhaps 150-200 – that will not get any funding for new teaching positions. There are probably many of the municipalities that are struggling most with school results. But I am tempted to quote Einar Förde, from a succession once with the Christian People's Party, when he said – something like: Sin has come into the world, but we don't like it. That's also my starting point: I don't have to like this decision. There is no secret that I have disagreed, I have used an entire election campaign to discuss it, but my job is to follow up what the four parties on the Stortinget have agreed on, make sure that we get a teacher's norm, and that it is carried out in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e574	Teachers, students and parents have long wanted more teachers and have long demanded that there be a standard for how many children per teacher there should be in the normal educational situation. There is something that most primary teachers report, and there is no difference between having a high level of education or being qualified at another approved level. They experience that they do not have enough time to provide individual students with the adapted education that they require. Does the Council not see that fewer pupils per teacher will make a significant difference in their everyday lives and give positive effects on learning and creating a good learning environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e581	What the representative asks me to do is actually to say that I agree with the position of the Christian People's Party. I'm not. I believe that the arguments of the Christian People's Party and the SV, which are the two parties that have been for such a teaching standard at school level, also do not hold water. But it's irrelevant in this context. It should be a joy to the Christian People's Party that this is a clear political victory. It shows that the Christian People's Party, when they cooperate with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, has a significant impact, because this was something that was on the agenda of the red-green parties throughout the eight-year period, but it was not possible to get through then. It's a cross of thought for me that many of the biggest problems in Norwegian school are found in municipalities that have very small groups and very small classes. We have to make sure that we do not now make a policy on how much of the attention and resources go to the big cities, where there are major classes, that we forget areas that also need considerable political attention and drag help.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e590	Follow-up questions are given – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e595	I understand that the Council of State is concerned about sin. But when a government council comes back from the paper commission, one should know that with a teacher's norm, there are more teachers, which means that teachers get better time for each individual student. The largest and most important organisation of the teachers, the Federation of Education, has said that this is the desired number one. The parents we've asked about this say that this is wanted number one. When we have asked the students and the student organisations, they have said that this is the desired number one. It is a little difficult to understand the lack of enthusiasm that the Council of State has. My question is, how do we now ensure that we fill the learning places for teachers? There is now a job number one, when we know that this learning standard is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e604	The most important thing about the four majority parties on the Grand Council has done to recruit more teachers is to put in place what I think is the greatest reward system of the times for those who are going to be teachers. We introduce completely new depreciation rules, where you can simply zero out parts of your student loan – first about NOK 55000 for everyone who applies for teacher training and completes a master's degree, an extra NOK 55000 for those who enter 1–7. Class, which I know is that the Christian People's Party is extra busy, and we've also been extra busy, and then an extra bonus on top, about the same size, for those who take up work in North Norway. It's a system that came last year. It probably came a little late to have a big deal on the search then, but to make it known, market that these four majority parties, long before we agreed on a teacher's norm, were also concerned with teacher recruitment and rewarded it – not only with nice words, but with cash – it's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e610	Martin Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e615	If the budget agreement leads to more teachers in school through a norm, the Labour Party seems to be very positive, but I have to say that right now the most perceptive thing in this matter is the attempt of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Knowledge and the Deputy Minister of Knowledge to distance themselves from the decision they have taken. They do their best to talk down the impact of the Christian People's Party – or problematize it, perhaps the Minister of Knowledge will say. I have to remind the Minister of Knowledge that this is also the government's norm now, a norm to which they have committed themselves by means of an agreement. It's part of the state budget, and then it has to be followed up. Then the council and government's job is one to make sure that this is actually funded, because a norm without funding will be an empty victory for the Christian People's Party and will be challenging for the municipalities. I understand that the Council of State can't go into detail about figures to be investigated. But can he give a political assurance that the government will put in all the means needed to meet the norm they have now signed up to with the Christian People's Party and the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e622	I am quite sure that the four parties that have concluded a budgetary agreement also intend to finance the measures that they have agreed on. It is the Stortinge that grants money, but the government follows up this budget agreement – of course, because our parties are part of it. If you look at the budget agreement, you're adding 200 million. kr as a kind of start-up for a six-month effect, and then it says quite explicitly that you have to come back to this in the revised budget when we know a little more, based on new GSI numbers – i.e. information from municipalities – about what will be the total amount of this. It is good in itself that the Workers' Party will congratulate this, but it is worth remembering that the Workers' Party was against a teacher's norm every year under the red-greens, and even in the election campaign the Workers' Party was unable to say what their own teacher's norm should contain. So if we've come a step closer to what Norway's largest party actually thinks, it's also a positive side effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e631	Marit Knutsdatter Strand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e636	All in this room are positive to knowledge and competence. On the other hand, what we have very different opinions about is what demands government and government can make to professionals around the country. The Council of State refers to compensation and conversion from loans to scholarships for teachers, but it will probably not help much if you have taken the teacher training and can enter another profession that pays much higher wages than if you enter a teacher's profession. The Christian People's Party believes that more teachers can be recruited from the reserve by increasing wages in the teaching profession, but without any guarantee in the municipal sector about this in the budget agreement, and then it seems unrealistic. In a situation where there is a great shortage of teachers, does the Council of State feel it is better that the students are taught by experienced and skilled teachers with education from before 2014 or by several unskilled teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e643	The whole basis for this government's knowledge policy is to have experienced, qualified teachers who are both good educators, good academics and have good professionalism and professional understanding, it is all, all of them, most important in the school – obviously. That's exactly why we set these requirements, for example. that you yourself should have had training in the subject you should learn away. That's an important requirement. It was also under this majority that a separate arrangement was put in place in the State budget – it was at the initiative of the Left – just targeting the non-qualified in school. That scheme, I think, is all the more important both to make known and to use now. I disagree that one of the biggest stimuli packages ever, as far as I know, recruiting people for a profession is not important. I think it's important. Wages and salaries are the responsibility of the parties, not the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e648	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e653	Welcome back from cardboard to the Council of State. It's a little bit of a new value to come back to. The teacher's norms were down before the minister came back. That means we're now going into an exercise that's very, very important, and that's that the government is now too teacher's norm. The government has now said that, and that's an agreement. Now all government policies must be geared towards teachers' standards. Before the government does as the Great Government has said, there will be no one telling the Christian People's Party at all. It's only when the government takes inward that they're too teacher code, this is actually one saying. And that's where the state council is now starting to go into a grey zone -- maybe not quite out of the paperwork yet, but it's a new everyday life, where the state council is too teachers' norm. In concrete terms: there is a great shortage of learning skills in the north, there are many available places of study. What will the Council of State do to ensure that there are enough teachers to implement the teachers' norms in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e660	It's an incredibly funny reasoning from a representative of the Socialist Left Party, who for eight years tried to get a teaching norm in place, but failed, sent the proposal to the hearing and failed even after the proposal was out, to try to claim that the Christian People's Party has not received a massive, significant and large impact in this budget. Then there's a semantic discussion about whether the government is for or not. We are often attacked in this Chamber to take credit for budgetary settlements that we have not actually presented in the first place. We're going to do the big crowd and our parties have agreed with the Christian People's Party to do. We have already described what is our most important measure of recruiting in the north, namely a separate scheme aimed at North Norway to get more teachers to work there. In addition, we have worked closely with the institutions in North Norway, both the University of Tromsø – the Arctic University of Norway, and the Nordic University, to contribute to their own recruitment work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e669	Kjetil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e674	There's also a discussion about teachers on the way that we can get back to school. My soul is a teacher for high school. Then I was offered to work in high school. I thought it was exciting to try, but when I was negotiating for a salary, it turned out that I had too much depression, so I had to get paid as unskilled, with a maximum of seniority. It was not so difficult to reject that offer. It shows that we have an important debate on the professionalism of teachers. It can never be a problem that you can do too much. So I'm very happy with the change we've made, and we appreciate the teacher's professionalism. Governments answered my questions about educational capacity and the number of institutions. There is, of course, a significant potential for learning and continuing training, but not for living in an institution. What will the Council of State do to increase the number of part-time training courses?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e682	Firstly, I am glad that the election went so far that the representative Kjeseth did not have to go back to school, even if it had been good for the teacher recruitment. So I mean, based on the models we're now working on for continuing education, where we've been very busy getting more of the further education decentralised, that it's going to be more like sending universities and colleges out where the teachers are, instead of always having to go in. I believe that it also provides a very good basis for thinking about further development of e.g. teacher studies — both to fill in for teachers who want to do so, i.e. further training, and perhaps also for those who want to study full lessons. There are also good offers today, including: at the University of South East Norway in my home state of Telemark, in Notodden, where you can take teacher training – there are some collections, but you don’t have to stay in Notodden to complete it. Now it's nice to stay at Notodden, so more people should move there, but if you don't want to, you can still take teacher training there. That kind of offer I think we have to work out more of in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e691	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e696	There is a question for the Minister of Knowledge. It is also about the teaching norm that the government has now committed itself to. The working party is very pleased with a norm if it leads to more teachers in school, and we want a norm that ensures increased teacher density, but then it depends on that norm being given real content. Firstly, a norm is meaningless if it is not financed, but it is also not the real content of a teacher's norm, I would say, unless new teaching resources are used correctly. In the Right – to say – to some extent very strong arguments against a teaching norm until that time, they have particularly relied on one argument, namely that research does not show that more teachers are effective or provide more learning. Now the government has signed on to introduce a teaching norm, and then hopefully the Right will nuance its view of what the research says. What the research points out is that if you hire more teachers, but only use them for the exact same purpose, you put them into each of your classrooms in standard onboard education without changing the way you work, it has little effect. But used correctly, with a different practice, fewer students per teacher can give good effect and more learning. The question to the Council of State is: if he is to see past the problematisation of teacher norm – which he has spent most of the time saying on both today and since he came back from parental leave – will he take that very research seriously? Will he ensure that the norm is not just about how many dollars are needed to meet the goal of a certain number of teachers – which is important in itself, that is a prerequisite – but that it is designed in a way that gives better learning? Will the Council of State ensure that the teacher’s norm is also aligned so that we are sure that increased teaching resources provide more learning?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e705	Now, I think the research is a little bit more fractured and nuanced than it was. But it's true, as Henriksen's representative says, there's little to say that you have more teachers if you don't change the teaching methods, and that's because almost all the research points to, is that the teaching method is the most important thing. It's more important than, for example, How many teachers you have. The representative asks me to see if this can strengthen other goals in school. That's how the government has put forward a boost for early action. A very important part of that promise is that we want a change of practice. We want the school to change what they do today in many places: wait and see. We want to have a legal obligation to put in place measures for those students who are struggling, early in school. We have always said that many places may require more teachers to be hired. It's e.g. a way in which the municipalities and schools can use these more teachers, especially in childhood, which will also build up under something that has been important for the Right Party and the Advance Party – otherwise also for the Left Party and the Christian People’s Party – namely early schooling. The teacher's norm as such is quite detailed in the budget decision, it says 16 first and then 16 and 21, and then it's 15 and 20. A further detailed arrangement on it, that we from Stortinget's side will determine exactly how the municipalities or schools should use these teachers, I don't think is a good idea, simply because it will only involve further detailed management of the municipalities and schools. At least we have to have a minimum of confidence that when School-Norway now gets what many people have wanted for a long time, namely a teacher standard and more teaching positions, they will also have a good use for them, but it can vary from municipality to municipality how they want to use them in each school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e714	Now the council itself had in its answer its own wishes for how the municipalities should use their teaching resources, and he pointed to early efforts. He also pointed out that the teaching methods used, i.e. The teacher/student relationship is very important. So it's obvious that the Council of State also has both thoughts and desires about how to actually use the teaching resources in school. He himself used the term "real content" when he answered a previous question here in the hall. So the question is, how can you make sure that the increased teaching resources actually give real content, that it may change the practice, that you use those teachers in the way that you are most sure of giving more learning, and not just distribute teachers in a way that the Minister of Knowledge pointed out that he himself disagrees with? I believe that this depends primarily on the job the government will do in the future. The question then is: besides problematizing, what kind of signals can the Council of State now give to the Norwegian municipalities that sit and think about how to introduce this norm in a very short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e721	I don't have any new signals compared to what we put forward a big message in ours, as it was Learned, and that was about what becomes the government's most important investment in school policy in this four-year period. There was the key early effort. There are two things that all municipalities have to prepare for, and to which the Stortinget has also joined. One is that there will be a reinforced obligation in the law to put the effort in early for the students who need it. That's the first one. The second is that we're going to decentralize the national means of competence. We spend about 1 to 1.5 billion. kr on school development during the year by the state. Our goal is to put that money into the system, that there are municipalities in good cooperation with teachers and local schools to decide how to exploit them. That work is already in progress. I think it's important that the schools don't just think – although there's no law against doing that – that now we're reducing the class by three students. You can think about how new teaching positions can be used, as the representative says, to get as much learning and well-being as possible again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e730	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Jette F. Christensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e735	Today we have learned that there are some concerns about how to get enough qualified teachers into school after the introduction of the teaching norm. But what I'm not quite getting into is how the government wants to do it, because the government's policy in this field up until now has given us – just to clarify it – a 40 pst. increase in the number of teachers working in Norwegian school without formal competence. It's too much. It's getting worse. There's now a higher degree of that than in 15 years. The Council of State has said in this debate that he wants to continue the work of getting more skilled teachers into school. But that work hasn't worked, all the time the numbers are so high. So what we're asking for is: what kind of policy is now going to be introduced? What are you going to do? Because what you've done up until now has not worked properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e742	It is true that there have been several non-qualified. It's probably because of different things. This may be because we have also invested massively in continuing education. But as I mentioned, it's a separate pot dedicated to giving teachers who are not qualified, but work at school, an offer to qualify. But this is going to be more difficult with a teacher's norm. I think we just have to be so honest to say that. It's going to be harder to bring down the number of non-qualified in school – which is important – and at the same time recruit not only the teachers we already needed, but the teachers we need extra to meet the teacher's norm. But we're going to look at the numbers. We're getting new numbers now in December. We're going to make as good an analysis as we can, but also as honest an analysis as we can, from the department's side. Our job is not to give the Storting a suspicious version of reality, but to present the figures that the department and the unhindered bureaucracy there are, and then present it to the Stortinget. Then it's my job as a politician to follow what the majority parties in Stortinget have decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e747	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e752	First, the Minister of Knowledge must understand that a standard of teaching is not for SV's sake. It's for the students, for the teachers and for the school. That's why we fought for it. It cannot be that the Minister of Knowledge has thought that two teachers should do the same thing as one. The whole point of a teacher standard and fewer students per teacher is that the teacher should be able to use a variety of methods, see each student and be able to meet the entire purpose paragraph, not only narrow learning goals related to international tests, but the whole purpose paragraph. I'll read a little bit of it, because it's good: ‘People shall develop knowledge, skills and attitudes to master their lives and to participate in work and community life. [[...]] They're going to get out creators, commitment and explorers. Students shall learn to think critically, act ethically and environmentally consciously.’ [[...]] SV supports the entire purpose section. Does the Minister of Knowledge not see the need for more teachers to realize it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e765	All parts of the Stortinget stand behind the purpose paragraph. It's very important, because it's the value base of Norwegian school. It describes and summarises what Norwegian school, as our most important common institution, might be, and what it should give to students. We have also renewed what was before the General Part, which is now called the Superior Part, because we want these values and principles, from the anchoring of a Christian-humanist cultural heritage to human dignity, creativity, creativity and knowledge, which should be central, to be used more in school. I can repeat my arguments against a teacher's norm. It's not useful to convince me that a teacher's norm is a sensible idea, during a spontaneous questioning time, when it hasn't gone on the previous four years. But as I have said several times before, this is a victory for the Christian People's Party. My job is to follow up on what our four parties on Stortinget have agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e774	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e788	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Ole André Myhrvold to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 3, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been withdrawn. Questions 8 and 9 from the representatives Per Olaf Lundtigen and Arild Grande of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, respectively, will be answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, who has left. Question 13, from the representative Per Martin Sandrøen of the Minister of Justice and Defence, will be raised by the representative Emilie Enger Mehl.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e808	‘There are several animal driveways per year where clean is lost along the Nordlandsbahn. On 25 November, the community again experienced a tragedy when over a hundred pure deaths occurred as a result of train driving. Bane Nor informed that trains did not slow down because the communication from the central team to the drivers did not work. The Norwegian Institute of Natural Research has established that a gamekeeper will be the most effective action if we are to end this. What measures will the Council of State take to prevent future train driving of clean and other animals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e815	I thank you for the question. It rips a little in the heart when you see the pictures that have been taken along the train rails on the Northern Railway. We also know that this isn't the only place that animal drive happens, it's also been media lookups lately that show that, among other things. Go with some sheep, so getting something done with it is important. We have a lot of miles by rail, so it's also important that Bane Nor has a professional approach to where the risk is greatest, and therefore the need for action is greatest. On Friday 1 December, I had a meeting with representatives from the Sametinget where Bane Nor was also present. There we got a very good round from the representatives of the Sameting in terms of how they experience the situation, how it affects them, and how they think about pure nutrition, and not least animal welfare in that regard. Bane Nor informed about how your work is planned. They're going to initiate the construction of a 25 km long game fence between the Salmon Tunnel and the Sea, where most of the accidents have occurred. It's an acceleration of at least a year. That means they're starting to build in June 2018, and they're now planning it. One might have wanted to get started even earlier, but there are also a number of other movements related to outdoor life and the like that are important to take care of, and to find out where to have doors in these fences, is therefore part of the job that needs to be done. In addition, it takes some time to get it into the market and get an actor to do the job. In addition, an extended fence constructed in 2015 southwards from Sefrivasselva to the puck mill, which is already fenced in. This happened in 2015, and now this is going on in 2018. So one gets fences and natural boundaries. Bane Nors is now investigating the circumstances of the warning chain. When a person is informed that it is clean near the track, a message shall be sent to the driver. It has obviously not worked satisfactorily in some of these cases, and they need to figure out what went wrong. So far, there has also been a low or reduced speed on the track, 40 km/h, which means that a visual person has better control and the ability to stop if one sees things ahead of him in the track. There is good dialogue between Bane Nor and the reindeer, and they want to strengthen it. One also looks at the possibility of using technology, either through the fibre cables that exist, or through the use of drones or similar in order to alert drivers at an earlier stage. I will travel up to the area early in January and take the trip on the Nordlandsbahn, and we have agreed that on that trip I will also meet representatives from the reindeer industry to discuss – and experience – the conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e838	I thank you for a very uplifting response, and I see that the Council of State has really acted both quickly and not least been well informed about the matter. It's very important, because these animal thrushes are terrible, both when they're visually displayed, and not least for those who run this industry. A little bit about communication to the driver running: I heard there was a failure in communication. Is it a technical failure, is it a lack of equipment such as a mobile phone or a satellite phone, or is it a forgetfulness and human failure that apply here?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e845	I'm also wondering about that right now, but that's something that Bane Nor is investigating. There are basically routines, and initially the technique exists, but at some stage it has failed. Whether it's human or technical failure, or a combination, we don't know yet. But making sure that a person goes through all the procedures and checks all the techniques, so that we know that messages come out when they're given are important. In terms of technology, it is also worth mentioning that today it is part of the reindeer flocks that have GPS markings. It could also provide important information, and if we are able to ensure that the GPS mark with information is also made available to a train controller or driver, it is an even better tool than people having to observe and call. So the more we can get automatic in warning, the better it will be. It is also a wish that we should be able to drive on the route at normal speed, because we have seen that there have been significant delays now. But we're also going to take into account animal welfare, and then it's worth slowing down.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e854	There was also an uplifting response to the fact that the technology could be put into use, and not least that it might have already been developed, to say the least. In fact, it's probably more about application and competence in how to apply it. But then I have a question about other sections, because, as the Council of State said, we know that it is not only on this route that you get out of these animal trading services – not to such a large extent, perhaps, but still. Will the Council of State take any initiative in respect of other sections which are exposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e861	We are generally concerned about this, and the tragic accidents that have occurred are also a reminder of an important job that needs to be done. Here we have good contact with Bane Nor. We discuss this thoroughly with them, and we also experience that they take it very seriously. Vegetation remediation is probably one of the most important instruments here. Especially some places where there have been problems with moose driving, Bane Nor has learned that by clearing more vegetation, both drivers and animals get better visibility. There are some of the animals that are more volatile than others and will turn and jump away at an earlier time if they see things coming. Especially in the case of egrets, it has given very good results. I am also informed that Bane Nor says that the cooperation with the sheep industry in general is good, although I know that there are also cases where not everyone is satisfied, and that they supervise and look at the need for fences along the rails.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e873	This issue, to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs who is directing it. The question is answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e878	‘3. Small amounts of the radioactive substance ruthenium were measured in October 106. According to State radiation protection, there was no risk to health and the environment. Similarly, measurements were also carried out elsewhere in Europe. According to the Evening Item on 21 November, emissions were already measured in Russia on 26 September, but only published on 20 November. How and when were the Norwegian authorities notified by the Russian authorities, and what has happened to the Russian authorities after this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e885	Radioactive ruthenium was measured at a number of air filter stations in Europe at the end of September and the beginning of October. Ruthenium-106 is a radioactive substance which is not naturally present but is used, inter alia: in cancer treatment. The state's radiation protection system registered small quantities of Ru-106 at its air filter stations during this period and went out publicly at the beginning of October. It was also informed that levels measured in Norway did not represent any risk to humans or the environment. On 7 October, the IAEA addressed the Member States and asked them to report back on their own findings of Ru-106 and on any events in their own country that could explain the occurrence of the substance in air. No one has so far assumed responsibility for the release of radioactive ruthenium. The Russian State Meteorology Agency, Roshydromet, went out publicly on 21 November with Russian ruthenium measurement data. The straw supplier received information directly from Roshydromet about this on the same day. The levels reported from Russia appear to be at the same level as the highest measurements recorded in Western Europe. Information was exchanged in which we asked from the Norwegian side for further concrete measurement data, while at the same time informing about the measurement data we have in Norway. These were transferred under the usual procedure from Straw Delivery to the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA. From the Norwegian side, we will always want to be notified or informed about events in our neighbouring countries, and when several countries make emissions measurements, as in this case, it will always be desirable to clarify what could be the source of emissions. We therefore expect Russia and other countries with which we have bilateral alert agreements to inform us in the event of an accident. This is also in line with the IAEA Convention on Early Warnings. On this basis, we have addressed a formal enquiry to Rosatom and asked if they now have more information about the matter. However, Rosatom claims that the emissions do not come from one of their nuclear installations. Information from the Rosatom website indicates that they will now take the initiative to appoint an independent expert group with both Russian and European experts to try to find the source of the release of Ru-106. This is an initiative that we welcome from the Norwegian side. Ruthenium-106 is a radioactive isotope such as: is produced to be used for cancer treatment. It has also been used as an energy source to generate power for navigation at sea or in satellites. The emission is not expected to result from emissions from a reactor. This is because you would have measured a number of different radioactive substances and not just ruthenium-106 if it had been the source.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e902	Thank you very much for your answer. I interpret the answer there that you still don't know the source, and that what you can read in the evening post is speculation. But how does the government assess the situation with regard to the warning of radioactive deposition when the source is still absent, and how will the situation be monitored at European level?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e907	This is an area that Norway is working with internationally along several axes. Multilaterally, Norway contributes in several cooperation formats. Together with Australia, Norway was driving a new resolution text at the IAEA General Conference in September 2017 on increased focus on the regulation of transportable nuclear power. Furthermore, a special emphasis may be placed on the work of the G7 Global Partnership Programme against Weapons of Mass Destruction and the Northern Dimension Environmental Development Fund. The Government's Nuclear Safety and Environment Action Plan in the North was established in 1995 and is today our main instrument for cooperation on nuclear safety in Russia, Ukraine and the other former Soviet states. It has been used in total about 2 billion. kr for priority projects and the action plan is reviewed every five years and is under review for the period 2018-2022. I feel that Norway is a very active participant in the IAEA cooperation, and that is what is our main platform for this kind of exchange of information.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e918	I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e932	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e940	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Children and Gender Equality the following questions: ‘When the Norwegian authorities are to help children who are left in the country of origin of the family, it will often be important to work through parents and other families who continue to live in Norway. However, when the Children’s Act and the Children’s Protection Act were amended in 2016 to take care of children abroad, this was linked to the The Hague Convention of 1996, so that it does not matter in relation to countries that have not signed it, such as the United Kingdom. Somalia. Will the Council of State consider legislative changes, so that the law applies to the work of all surviving children who are permanently resident in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e949	The government takes seriously the work of children who are left abroad against their will and subjected to coercion, violence or negative social control. We are now working on several fields of action. Child protection shall contribute to secure child-rearing conditions and those concerned that a child may be taken abroad and exposed to coercion must contact the Child Protection Service. In such situations, the child protection service shall examine the situation, talk to the child and, where appropriate, take the necessary measures. Child protection can therefore help to prevent and prevent children from being left abroad. Cooperation between school and health authorities is also important in order to provide the best possible assistance to children in such situations. Once the child is abroad, what Norwegian authorities can do is more limited. It is true that the representative of Bohemia refers to the amendment of the Child Protection Act in connection with the accession of the Hague Convention in 1996. Before the amendment, the Child Protection Act only applied to children living in Norway. However, with the amendment of the law, child protection has now been extended to children living in Norway but living abroad. Child protection now has a responsibility to review awareness-raising and open investigation cases for children living abroad. Child protection may also take care-taking decisions. However, it is not quite clear, as the representative of Bohemia claims, that the responsibility of child protection for children abroad only applies when children are present in countries which are members of the Hague Convention. Child protection has the same responsibility for children abroad, regardless of the country in which the child resides. In practice, however, there is a completely different possibility for child protection to help children living in another country of the Convention. The Convention provides for rules on the exchange of information and cooperation between authorities, and States are obliged to recognise and enforce decisions of other States of the Convention. States not associated with the Convention do not have the same obligation. It is therefore more difficult to have a case adequately investigated and to have Norwegian child protection measures implemented in non-Conventional countries. When a child is living in a country outside the scope of Conventional Cooperation, the primary external service is to assist the child within the consular framework. To the question to the representative: as to whether the Child Protection Act should be amended to allow for other types of measures for children abroad, or coercive measures for parents, it will require a major investigation and a legislative change. However, I am somewhat uncertain whether it will be an effective and practical measure to help children who are left abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e966	I thank the Council of State for an interesting answer. This is a big problem. Only in Somalia, when in 2014 how many were there, there were about 1,430 children left there. They have different fates, not everyone is in violent Qur'an school, but still it can be serious in other ways. I'm glad that the Council of State is engaged, and I'm asking about this because I've discussed it with those who are working on the issue, and who have raised this to me. I ask with an open heart to hear what the council will answer. The concern is that child protection is too passive towards children who have been sent to countries that have not signed the Hague Convention and that the wording of the law is such that it is difficult to find out how they will work. My concern is that they should make the most possible, and that way must go through family members and parents living in this country, while the children are left behind. I wonder how the Council of State assesses whether that possibility is being used well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e973	We are aware of the challenge that is there. Child protection also has obligations vis-à-vis children who are not nationals of the country of convention. But it is limited – as I said in my answer – what child protection can do. Therefore, it is important that child protection cooperates with the integration advisors and the EEAS. It is important to work through parents and other families living in Norway. Then it's important to get into dialogue with your parents. The protection of children is not an obligation today, but they can nevertheless offer advice and guidance to parents and, where appropriate, other assistance to bring their children back to Norway. However, there are also other services, such as the competence team against coerciveness and gender discrimination, that can be involved and contribute, and the family protection service. However, it is difficult, if we make a legislative change, to get countries that are not obliged under the Convention to commit in the case of Norwegian laws. We are now working on a new Children's Protection Act. Then it would be natural to address this question, without I can say that it will be a change of laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e980	I thank you for your answer. We would also like to ask about the cooperation between child protection and other agencies — which the Council of State had in mind — in preventing people from leaving, when concerns arise. We see that the rationale, for example. is that the children have become too Western, too integrated. There is a risk of coercion and sexual mutilation when sent by farms and abandoned. It's important to prevent it. My question is, in terms of cooperation between child protection, school, police, foreign service, how does the Council of State feel that the obligation of confidentiality of child protection works? When I talk to the other floors, especially the police, they say they hear too little from child protection. It applies not only in this kind of case, but also in violence, that there are too few concerns that are addressed to the police. Is the rule of exception applicable to professional secrecy active enough of the protection of children in cooperation with other bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e989	The obligation of professional secrecy shall not prevent the assistance of children in a difficult situation. I fully agree with the representative that one of the most important things we can do is to prevent these children from being sent abroad. Child protection depends entirely on getting messages from kindergartens, from schools, from health care. The protection of children then has an autonomous obligation to investigate the case and, where appropriate, to take action — and take care if they are afraid that the children will be sent abroad. If child protection has taken over and started this, it is also prohibited under the Child Protection Act to take the children out of the country. It's a child abduction. Changes to the Children’s Act have also meant that children over 12 years of age should consent if they are to travel abroad on their own. Child protection is primarily dependent on obtaining information. Then we see enough that in some cases child protection should perhaps have done better research, and not least that they should have talked to the children or the young people in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e999	«New study by the Institute of Public Health reveals that two thirds of those suffering from depression are 80 pst. of those with anxiety and over 90 pst. are not diagnosed by persons suffering from alcohol abuse. 40 pst. of those with alcohol problems had been with a doctor to talk about mental problems or symptoms, but in most cases they were not abused. What measures will the Council of State take to ensure that the suffering is diagnosed and that those who are ill can get the help they need?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1006	I would like to thank the representative for addressing this question. I am surprised myself that this study has not received any more attention. There are high numbers found in the study. It does not say anything about the need for treatment, but I still think that one might say that several of those who do not receive treatment today would need much help. We need to increase the knowledge of the population, both so that we get better at recognizing the symptoms of ourselves and others, and so that we become better at knowing where one can get help. We also need to make good help more easily available. We introduce lifelong learning and public health in school. I hope this can help reduce the stigma and make more people seek help. Work on stigmatisation is also an important objective of the strategy for good mental health. Work on developing lowthreshold services needs to continue, so that assistance is available quickly and locally. It will lower the barrier to seek help. Health and school health services, recruitment of psychologists in municipalities, the implementation of services such as rapid mental health care and Internet-related treatment services should be further developed. In a circular on documentation and diagnosis when health care is provided at lowthreshold facilities, which came earlier this year, it is clarified that monitoring and assessment of the challenges and needs of each patient is necessary to provide the patient with adequate and necessary assistance. The implementation of package trajectories in mental health and alcohol starts in 2018. The three package stages for the investigation into mental health protection for adults, the investigation into mental health protection for children and young people and the investigation and treatment of multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment are the first. These contain monitoring recommendations and shall contribute to a more systematic investigation. This will, hopefully, increase the investigative competence of healthcare professionals and benefit all patients – including those outside the package chain. National guidelines for the treatment and rehabilitation of drug problems and addiction also include a reference to alcohol problems. The shares treated in this study are in line with several foreign studies. But it's the first time such a study has been conducted in Norway, and we can't be satisfied with such findings. The Public Health Institute, in cooperation with the HUNT Research Centre, will carry out a pilot in 2018, which can provide us with more information on the situation in Norway. We take knowledge from these studies as we continue to work to strengthen the mental health field and the drug field in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1023	Thanks for the answer. I understand that the Council of State is also concerned about this. It's strange that this doesn't get any more attention, because there's a serious discrimination against patients based on diagnosis, and it shows that diseases have different status, and that there's a lot of taboo in some areas. I would also like to thank you for your answer, which will show you possible areas for processing. But this might be more difficult than we want to admit, even though it should actually be easy. It's one thing I miss in the answer, and it's firm. Is there someone a visitor with, for example, an alcohol abuse, it's the doctor. But it says 40 pst. of those with an alcohol problem who have contact with a doctor, are not abused. What would the government like to do with it? I assume that he sees the context of his role in this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1034	Firstly, I fully agree. I also see that this study contrasts with some of those who, even from the service, in the public debate have more problematised it as a description of people who have common challenges in everyday life being overtreated in this area, which is mental health. This study tells what has been my main point in that debate, that is not what is the main challenge in Norway. The main challenge in Norway remains that people with real mental health challenges do not receive sufficient help quickly and effectively. The decision-makers are clearly central to this work. It's often the decision we're going to only when we have challenges. Especially in mental health and intoxication, some of the values are determined to have continuity in the relationship. One would like to know the family and local conditions, and so the decision maker has a greater basis for having conversations with the patient on just these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1041	Thanks for the answer. In the last question, I would like to point out a matter that was going on in the fall, which I know was also debated in the media, which dealt with a statistics that showed that a large number of patients with mental disorders who were left with mental health protection were rejected, without once being evaluated by a specialist. There we also see that this group is being treated in a completely different way than if one has a somatic disease, broken a bone or has a heart disease. Then one at least gets an assessment. Patients with mental disorders are largely rejected. It's also a completely unsustainable statistic. Does the Council of State see the context of this, and how does he want to gather his grip on it in a more clear way than one in the health services and from political circles has done before?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1048	Yes, I also react to those numbers, because these are situations where the warden has talked to the patient about mental health challenges, but where one has experienced that one himself is short of being able to provide good enough investigation or treatment, one asks for help from the specialist health service, but is rejected. I think that's serious. It may be that the level of treatment should not be a specialist healthcare service after an investigation has been carried out, but it is at least an expression that the caregiver and the patient have asked for help, but are rejected and, in many respects, left to themselves. This is part of the background to the mental health strategy that the government has already presented. We are now working on strengthening this field in many areas, but I am concerned that this must happen both in the municipal health service and in the specialist health service in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1064	This question falls because the representative is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1072	My question is: ‘The question of the relationship between national governance and the teacher’s professional judgement has been raised repeatedly. In reply to me in the Question Time on 22 November, I realized that the Council of State refers to the renewal of the trade union in response to how this should be done. But in the Ministry's response to request decision No. On 7 October 2016, the Ministry replied that the main features of the quality assessment system should be maintained. Will the Council of State ensure that trade renewal is also followed up by a review of the quality assessment system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1081	Now first I have to say that I think a certain tension between national governance and the academic judgement of teachers can be quite productive. In other words, I believe it is a debate that must be kept alive, and it is an important debate to have. And it's not certain that it's possible to draw up the boundaries once and for all. Then it is important to discuss the quality assessment system – which sounds quite large and mysterious – that we are very clear about what it is, because it is not that the quality assessment system is just about measuring what students are learning at school. In other words, it is not just the national tests, for example, that are perhaps the most well-known. It is equally important that teachers, schools and authorities are informed about how schools carry out important parts of their broad social mandate. For example, the student survey is an important part of the quality assessment system. In the spring – in the course of the previous accumulation – we presented a big message, Learningly, where we also provided a good and thorough description of what the quality assessment system contains. In that communication, we also said that when the renewal of the profession and the renewal of the curriculum are over – and they intend to make shorter, simpler curricula, which will also provide teachers with greater professional space than today – it is also natural to see if some adjustments are needed in the quality assessment system. But when we say that the main features are fixed, it's simply because this government is too much, for example. The student survey, we're in order to have the national tests that we have today, and we're also in order for it to be an offer with many voluntary tests, which the municipalities or single schools can choose to use, but are not required by national teams. We think it is good that you have some opportunity to investigate more or have extra samples in school if you want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1090	Then we got a yes to a new review. But at the same time, the quality assessment system has been raised by the teachers as part of their everyday challenges as teachers, and the reality of the councils and teachers is different. Professional renewal is timely, and we look forward to the outcome. We all want increased professional space for the benefit of the students, and the teachers are undoubtedly important precisely for the students – and will put the government's quality assessment system into practice. Nevertheless, we experience suggestions on proposals that undermine the education, function and professionalism of the teachers. Since the Council of State is concerned with objectives and results, I ask: can it be demonstrated that there is a lack of formal competence in the individual teacher that is the background to the challenges in the school and part of the background to professional renewal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1099	Firstly, I have not notified a review of the quality assessment system; I have said that it is natural – as I also said to the Stortinget in our – to see if any adjustments are needed. And then there's semantics and that you put different things into it, but a review probably sounds a little bit more extensive than what we said we wanted. The starting point for trade renewal is not the competence of teachers. The starting point for trade renewal is at least two things. First of all, today's curriculums are partly very comprehensive, partly little coordinated, and that there is a need to have curricula that are more rigorous, that go more to the core of the subject, and that also give teachers greater professional space for action, and this is a process that we do with the teachers. Secondly, we want some skills and qualities that we believe to be important in the future, for example. critical thinking must be clarified in the curricula.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1106	We get an adjustment. We can live with that. I think that precisely this with professional space of action and the competence of the teachers is a good thing. One of the government's most important issues is the introduction of a five-year master's education for teachers, and today the NRK reports that a single mother has started teaching at North University and has lost support for her education. Nav says in a letter that she is not considered to be in necessary and appropriate education. Then I wonder if the Council of State shares Nav's view that a five-year training course is not necessary and appropriate, or whether only people with transitional benefits should not be able to become teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1115	We've been in the rush for – it's our profit – that we get a five-year master's education in Norway. As far as I remember, the Centre Party has been – and is still – very sceptical about what you do not want the kind of reform of teacher training, which is also for the Education Association and the educational students. The specific case in the NRC concerns the rules which, as far as I understand, the Stortinget has put in place for the transitional aid, which is a scheme under the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. In other words, I am not the right Council of State to respond to how Nav practices its rules, or whether that legislation should be amended. But I can say in general that we're busy recruiting more teachers, we're concerned that more people are going to learn to be teachers, and of course I'm also going to ask my colleague the Minister of Labour if she thinks that today's system is doing it in a good enough way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1125	This question, from Per Olaf Lundtigen to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, is answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1130	‘There shall be consultation in the Lithuanian Parliament on 15 December 2017 on the experience of nurses from Lithuania in companies owned by the Norwegian Orange Group. May the Council of State provide an overview of government purchases of services from the 'Orange structure', according to Aftenposten 29 november, and present figures for 2015, 2016 and 2017 broken down by municipalities, health enterprises, etc. in dollars for the number of persons hired, their pay and working conditions and the corresponding payment of taxes and charges?’» [[municipalities, health enterprises, etc.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1137	I do not have access to and therefore unfortunately not have the opportunity to provide the very detailed information from Norwegian municipalities and health companies that the representative is asking for. The starting point for the question is a matter of hiring temporary workers in the healthcare system, and questions are raised as to whether the hired workers from the employment agency Orange have received the pay and working conditions they required. As the case has been presented, it may indicate that several have not received it. In that case – I stress in that case – the actors in the case may have acted contrary to Norwegian law. I do not have any further information about the matter and therefore I need to be informed on a general basis. Of course, an enterprise has an obligation to comply with the requirements and to ensure that the benefits to employees are in accordance with what is required — in other words, that people have the pay and working conditions that we have decided they should have in Norway. The government also has its obligations when purchasing services. The starting point is a matter of hiring temporary workers in the health service, and then there are questions as to whether the hired workers from the agency have received the pay and working conditions they required. As I said, I have not detailed information on this matter, and there are still general comments. Regardless of the industry, there is a requirement for equal treatment for all rentals from crew undertakings. This means that the agency must ensure that the hired worker has at least the conditions which she would have obtained if she had instead been employed by the lessee. The lessee is obliged to provide the information necessary for the manning undertaking to comply with the requirement of non-discrimination. In the public sector, rules on pay and working conditions are also applicable in public contracts. The Regulation shall contribute to ensuring that employees in establishments providing services for public employers do not have lower pay and working conditions than those resulting from applicable general or national collective agreements. The regulations also provide for the contracting entity to require that employees of suppliers and, where applicable, subcontractors directly involved in the performance of the contract have remuneration and working conditions in accordance with the legislation. Furthermore, contracting authorities have an obligation to verify that the pay and working conditions of employees are in line with the national collective bargaining agreement. The follow-up of contracts concluded by public institutions is an important part of the follow-up to the government’s strategy against the crime of working life, and studies have shown that follow-up can be improved. In order to facilitate the control to be exercised by contracting authorities, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs cooperates with the Labour Inspectorate, Diffi and KS to draw up guidance on this legislation. Although there is still a way to go and I do not want to express myself specifically on this particular matter, I would nevertheless point out that more and more municipalities have met the challenges of preventing unprofessionalism and the crime of working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1156	There is no coincidence that there is a lot of lookup, and not least the evening post has done a exemplary job with this theme. In these observations, it has been found that very many, yes, over 50 municipalities, which have had agreements with the Health Vicar Agency Orange Health, have not checked the salary of the temporary workers they hired. When the Council of State now says that he does not have access to what I asked for, I expect the Council of State to have access to it at a later stage, because it is not possible to have a follow-up to this without anyone knowing exactly what you are talking about. There are so many specialities in this legislation that one has to go to work concretely. Just a brief question: KS-Advisor Tor Allstrin said this is a demanding area for the municipalities, among others. because it is somewhat uncertain how far this control obligation goes under the regulation. Does the Council of State agree that this is unclear?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1165	Whether it is possible to obtain detailed figures by municipalities, health enterprises, etc. in kroner for the number of people hired, as well as the pay and working conditions and the corresponding payment of taxes and charges, I do not dare answer clearly now. Well, the starting point here is that this is not initially information that you always collect from municipalities and health companies. I do not think the representative Lundtigen, whom I know as a strong critic of unnecessary reporting and bureaucracy, is interested in us introducing this as an obligation. So again, I would like to stress in general that it is important to separate what is the more general discussion of social dumping from what is the case of labour-life crime. At the moment you break Norwegian law, we are talking about work crime – of course on a very general basis. Then it's also the right authorities that have to deal with it. I am not in a position to make a legal assessment of the KS lawyer's statements. If necessary, the representative must follow up with an additional question, in writing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1176	It is quite correct that I strongly oppose the fact that municipalities and others will submit a lot of documentation, because it creates too little progress. What is important is that we concentrate on the most important issues. Here it is an important theme. Here is a theme that shows that what is happening in public activities, municipalities and health businesses is such a big issue that it comes to the Lithuanian Parliament, led by the government party, the alliance of farmers and the greens. Then it is essential that we in Norway have clarity about what is actually happening. Then it's important that we get the necessary control of this. My question is: will the Council of State put in an extra effort to obtain the necessary documents so that one can provide the embassy in Lithuania with the necessary information at the hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1185	Whether it is possible or desirable to obtain these very specific figures from the municipalities, and whether there is a basis for doing this, I do not dare answer on the standing foot. However, with regard to the core of the issue raised by the representative Lundtigen, namely the challenges, labour-related problems that cross-border across Europe, the government has a clear, clear policy against social dumping, against labour-life crime. New rules and measures aimed at the manning industry have also recently been consulted. The whole point is not to criminalise or suspect any foreign employee, nor anyone who runs a crew agency, but that we should operate according to Norwegian rules. The Norwegian rules are also there because we want to maintain the main features of the working life we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1195	This question, from Arild Grande to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, is answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who is away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1200	‘The Working Environment Act balances the safety of employees with a flexible working life and has contributed to high productivity. Under the Right and Advance Party Government, there has been a continuing attack on the Working Environment Act. In today's business life on 30 November, the Minister of Labour is reluctant to make proposals from the Progress Party and the Left to give unorganise the same opportunities for exemptions from the statutory working time rules as organised. Is the government planning changes to the Working Environment Act that will provide such access?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1207	First to the wording of the question: I do not of course agree that the government has attacked or weakened the Working Environment Act. We have made some rather moderate changes and adjustments to make the Working Environment Act more flexible and adapted to modern working life, without weakening the protection of workers in Norway. Otherwise, it is a well-known matter that these were thoughts that also the Workers' Party, during the then Stoltenberg administration, worked and worked with. I assume that the representative does not think it automatically constitutes an attack on the Working Environment Act. The principle of today's law is that it's a third. It's simply, to put it very simply, stronger protection for non-organized workers. There are less opportunities to agree flexible arrangements than for workers who are organised locally, and there are even greater opportunities for trade unions with so-called recruitment rights, i.e. in practice with more than 10,000 members, to agree on flexible working time arrangements. The changes implemented by the government in 2015 significantly increased the freedom of action in terms of what can be agreed locally in the business. It is now possible to enter into a local contract of up to 12.5 hours of work per day, 69 hours of total working time for a single week. It is important to stress that this applies to local contract law for those who are organised. This is within the framework of tripartite cooperation, a continuation of the principle enshrined in the Working Environment Act even today. Then the Labour Inspectorate can also go in and grant exemptions to put in place working time schemes that are sought by both employers and employees. It's also important. The working time rules have been assessed in several samples. By 2016 at the latest, the Job Hours Committee presented its position. The committee felt that today's system is basically working well. The committee writes about the contractual access to the different levels of agreement and what exceptions can be agreed on at each level. In view of the sample’s main view, it shows an appropriate balance in view of the relationship of strength between the parties. So to the specific answer to the representative’s question: The government has followed up the recommendations of the sample with some changes to the legislation, while other themes are addressed in further dialogue with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1220	I thank you for your answer. What the Council of State calls moderate changes in the Labour Environment Act, is now being used diligently to resolve the structures of the labour market to help more people become employed on temporary contracts. We're going to have ample opportunity to come back to that later. What gives much cause for concern now is signals from the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Wiborg, of the Labour and Social Committee, and also from representatives of the Left, that they have tried to make changes in the past and that they will try again. Governments are very reluctant to respond to this. I'm recording the answer given from Stortinget's pulpit now, that you're satisfied with what's underpinning today's system. It must mean that the chairman of the committee, Erlend Wiborg, has no influence on this, and that would be a useful clarification. Can the Council of State confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1231	If you look up in a encyclopedia on the definition of a rhetorical question, I think the representative Grande's question would be a prime example of that. Of course, it's not possible to answer it the way it's formulated. Of course, the government parties' representatives on the Stortinget have great influence, decisive influence on government policy, but what I'm describing is what the government's policy is, the line the government has followed, and the line that the government has also planned to follow. But it is natural to also discuss new issues that arise. I believe that over the course of these four years, this government has shown that we are capable of both renewing the public sector, modernising and getting moderate changes in the Working Environment Act, and that we are still able to maintain the basic strength of the Norwegian tripartite cooperation that we have had. It may not have worked like this in all the weeks of the election campaign we were through, but I think that Norwegian tripartite cooperation has worked well over the years. Otherwise, as far as I have registered, although I am not working on this for the day, it is not correct that there have been several temporary employees in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1240	What we see is new contracts that exploit the space of action created by the government in terms of temporaryity, which is not defined as temporaryity, precisely because it does not differ from what is the daily operation. We will have ample opportunity to come back to that, both in questions to state councils and in debates in the media. I record that the government has put the matter to death in this round, that the performances of the Progress Party and the Left in this matter have been added to the ground that are not up to date to follow up. I'm very happy about that. I also record that the social partners have been concerned that it is not going to rock the balance here. Both employers’ and employees’ organisations want predictability and security around this, and I am pleased that the performances from, among other things. Erlend Wiborg will not be followed up by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1247	I had a little bit of an idea of a question here, but I refer to the answer to the previous question. It is also true that one of the things that became very clear very quickly was that the government, when making changes to the Working Environment Act in 2015, also wanted to keep what was the structure and structure of today's work environment law. I think it must be a cross of thought for part of the opposition parties that if you have too rigid a work environment law, which is not adapted to the working life that is actually out there – and also wanted by many workers – we risk undermining the work environment law and, in the worst case, creating a law that is not actually enforced. Unfortunately, there are some examples that we can sometimes stick with laws and regulations in Norway that look fine on paper, but that in practice are not complied with out there, and they do not provide the protection they are going to provide to employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1260	‘In the budget agreement, a cut of SEK 16 million was entered into the Film Fund. This came as a shock to the industry, and to the opposition, because it was not long since the Stortinget made a film deal asking the government to bet, not cut, on Norwegian film and TV drama production. Why does the Council of State believe that the Film Fund should take this cut of SEK 16 million?»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1267	At first I would like to say that it is nice to have the Trettebergstien back in Stortinget and wish her a welcome back after the mother's mother's perm has ended. That being said, the government is concerned about facilitating a professional film industry with a healthy economy. It is one of our four film policy objectives, and it is crucial for the overall achievement of our goals in the field. We need a sustainable and solid film industry that is capable of exploiting the opportunities offered by the digital development that is now taking place. That's why I'm glad we have a very good public funding of films in Norway. We have significant public funding – from the development of production to distribution and dissemination. The total investment for film purposes in the government's 2018 draft government budget represents, as the representative knows, 796 million. kr, of which the Film Fund receives more than 505 million. kr. We have also provided more funding for the film field, except for the Film Fund. Among other things, the government has strengthened the focus on regional film activities, which have been given close to doubling the funding for regional film funds, with grants for a film centre offer in Oslo, and we have made sure that all the regions of the country now have a film centre offer. We have provided capital and competence for Norwegian gaming companies, who want to control the market through Spill out in the world project. And we have established an incentive scheme that has so far ensured that several of the major international recordings have been added to Norway, giving positive ring-effects for both Norwegian film workers and businesses. The 16-million-dollar cut. kr to the Film Fund is, as you know, the result of the budgetary negotiations that have taken place in Stortinget, between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party. The government's original draft budget was, as I said, higher, but in negotiations all parties must give and take as long as no one has a majority alone. What I am particularly pleased about is that these four parties have gathered on a very good budget for the country next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1280	It is possible that the Minister of Culture thinks it is a good budget for the country, but that it is a disappointing budget for the film industry, there is no doubt about it. In the last five budgets, we have seen that this government has systematically reduced the priority of culture. The fact that film policy and the Film Fund are the same size is largely due to red-green policy. After this government came to power, one has cut or let the allocation stand on the ground. An already poor proposal for a government budget has now become worse with this cut of 20 million. SEK – 16 million. SEK of them for the Film Fund. That means either cutting off a feature film, half the bet, all the film festivals, or the top funding of four drama series. Where does the Council of State think the film industry should cut now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1287	It's not right, as the representative of Trettebergstien says, that the cultural sector is not being prioritised. It will be, because the government is increasing the budget for cultural life year after year. It has never been higher than the budget to be adopted. In the budget presented by the government, this item was higher. But all the departments have to be prepared to change when it is negotiated here in Stortinget – I have to be. It is the Norwegian Film Institute that will distribute the film fund for 2018 in such a way that it promotes the production, launch and viewing of Norwegian films in the best possible way. I trust that the Norwegian Film Institute will also manage in 2018, as they have shown in previous years, the number of crowns that Stortinget makes available, in a sensible way and at the best for Norwegian film.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1296	I just want to repeat that for four years this government's policy for the film industry has been about broken promises and lowered ambitions. With the draft budget, there were already 34 million. NOK below 2016 level, so saying that the film field has been prioritised is directly wrong. The industry, who knows where the shoe is pressing, says it's tight, you have to fight about the funds, and with this cut of 16 million. kr to the Film Fund is getting even worse. I listed instead what this cut might have to say with the practical lapse of e.g. a feature film, the film festivals, half the game development or four television dramas. When the Council of State says that the budget is a good budget, what is it that the Council of State has understood, that the film and television industry has not understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1303	I want to repeat what I said in my first answer. When I say this is a good budget, it is a good budget for the country. What we are engaged in from the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, is to ensure a good whole, for change, that new jobs are created, for security and for further education. Unfortunately, there are some redisposals that we have to deal with. And the re-priorities that have to be done are the Norwegian Film Institute that has to do. I have great confidence that they're going to do those priorities in a good way, at the best for Norwegian movies. Of the 800 or so applications received, for example: In 2016, there are some people who will get less to next year, but I'm sure we're still going to see many amazing big films that are Norwegian produced in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1313	‘The Government and the Ministry of Defence proposed in the long-term plan for Defence in June 2016 to close Setnesmoen. In October 2017, the Government proposed to maintain Setnesmoen. Did the Stortinget get a proposal based on incorrect information when the case was submitted to the Stortinget in June 2016?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1320	First, I just want to be quite specific about the question from Huitfeldt's representative: No, it is my opinion that the Stortinget did not receive a proposal based on incorrect information in connection with the submission of the long-term plan in June 2016. The District Boards represent an operational capacity in the Home Office. In addition to directing the territorial and response forces, they have an important task of coordinating locally against civil authorities and allied departments. At the same time, the government has made it clear that the long-term plan recommendations for the decommissioning of the district staff in Møre and Fjordane Home Security Districts and Setnesmoen camp were primarily based on cost assessments. Such an approach would release funds to strengthen district losses in the north and establish a tactical management element at the Terningmoen. This was also in line with the Chief of Defense's professional-military advice. The government recommended the implementation of a comprehensive land management system to see whether the structure and organisation were adapted to future tasks and threats, or whether there was a need for adjustments. The majority agreed to all of this and asked that the government should look at the duties, structure and capacities of the Army and the Home Office in an overall context. The store also decided to continue the HV-11, which the working party also got behind. In the budget agreement, extra money was also put in to maintain Setnesmoen. In the field of law enforcement, different options were considered for both the Army and the Home Office. The economic framework has also led to these recommendations. In the overall review, there was both economic space and operational rationale for, inter alia: to continue the district staff of HV-11 on Setnesmoen. In the land power proposition, we presented solutions that increase fighting power in Finnmark and continue the brigade with modern and forward-looking capabilities. For example, the Home Office opens the possibility of continuing the 11 districts of today's structure. I have to be allowed to ask, all the time that it opened up an economic space to continue district 11 and the Setnesmo, and that the Workers' Party voted for it at the time: Is it such that the Workers' Party is no longer so concerned about continuing the Setnesmo?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1337	I don't know if the state council has completely understood the question-time institute, but it's the opposition's privilege to ask. I support the decision, I voted in favour of it. But it is obvious that the government has changed its mind, and then I wonder, is it because of the economy it has changed? It has ‘opened up an economic space’, says the Council of State. He also said that the Storting allocated extra money to Setnesmoen. That's not true. In that case, I ask the Council of State to provide evidence of that. I will follow that up on a written question, because extra money was put into Stortinget to HV in Troms and Finnmark, where the need was greater. I support the maintenance of Setnesmoen, but the question is: Why did the government change its vision? What was different when the government presented a comprehensive long-term plan in relation to when this was presented to the Stortinget this fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1344	What was different was that we presented a long - term plan for Stortinget, and during the wholesale treatment, it was decided to continue the districts and Setnesmoen. When we had that as a background in the land-use proposition assessments, we did those investigations and in the land-use proposition we had a position that included the Homeland Protection with the districts and Setnesmoen etc. What changed was that the economic re-priority made it economic space to continue with the departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1349	Then I just want to ask the Council to explain: what is the economic space? I agreed to postpone that decision. We got a number of local recordings, which asked questions. But the Council of State does not say that it was the basis for calculation or the basis for decision there was something wrong with – it ‘opened up an economic space’. That means that the council has extra money to have an extra base? Then the council had to have quite a lot of extra money, because what he reported to Stortinget was 200 million. kr in renewal costs to maintain Setnesmo. Where's the money? Does this mean that we get extra money in the revised national budget to an increased framework for the entire long-term plan, so that there is money both to strengthen HV in total and to maintain Setnesmo?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1354	I think this is probably because we perceive the agreement in Stortinget on the long-term plan in two different ways. We see that the equation meant that we continue with the Setnesmo. That was also the assessment we made in the land-use proposition. It's also taken into account in the financial arrangements. I then see that Huitfeldt's representative thought that it was a temporary decision that meant that one should expect to put down Setnesmoen when one made the land-use proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1359	Can I get a question to the Council of State? If the Council of State is now going to ask the opposition and end its post with it, I would like to ask for the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1364	It's accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1369	We made a decision that we should look at Setnesmoen in the context of the entire HV structure. I'm happy about that. So to the question, it was said by the Council of State at the time that it cost a lot of money to maintain the Setnesmo, that that money was needed to renew the HV, especially in Troms and Finnmark. If it is that the Council of State now has extra money to use to strengthen HV in Troms and Finnmark, I would like to see a calculation on it. In the event of the Stortinget being presented, there is a great need for more training and training to strengthen HV in the north. Yes, I support Setnesmo, but I'd like to see that money. And only in what was presented to the Stortinget in the budget agreement that was now concluded, cut the cooperation parties, the Right and the Advance Party in HV. We're not satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1376	In fact, the Setnesmo decision was largely taken in the agreement on the long-term plan. Then they said that you continue with the Setnesmo. That Huitfeldt’s representative has perceived that it was a decision that, when the land authority proposal came, it could be expected that the Setnesmo would be put down – well, that’s not the opinion of the Right when we left the deal. Then we would have clarified that part.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1384	«The oil companies themselves assess profitability and risk. However, today's tax system allows socio-economic unprofitable investments on Norwegian capital to be profitable for the companies after tax and to 'distorting the choice between investment on the base or on land', cf. Prop. 150 LS [[2012-2013]] What will the country's oil revenues from remaining reserves be in 2030 given an oil price of $30 per barrel in 2030?»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1391	The distribution of responsibilities and roles between the country and the business community is the same in the oil industry as in other parts of the economy. The State governs laws, regulations and concessions, and the companies in the industry in question are responsible for the operational exploration, expansion and operation, in this case for the oil sector. The Norwegian management model is therefore based on the fact that it is those who wear shoes, in this case the oil companies, who make profitability assessments and make investment and operational decisions. This is how we make good risk assessments when deciding on exploration, development and operation. Administration and approval of development and operational plans make the socio-economic profitability of projects visible, i.e. before tax calculations. The economic robustness of the projects is also assessed during the same treatment, precisely to assess the risks associated with, among others. low oil price. Our framework is therefore linked in such a way that companies should have as much self-interest as possible in making decisions in terms of exploration, development and operation that are also the best socio-economic. The design of the tax system is a central part of this. The country’s share of petroleum assets, defined as the present value of the country’s net cash flow from the petroleum activity, was estimated at 3,900 billion in the national budget for 2018. kr in 2018-krona. Such a level provides a basis for permanent government income of about 118 billion. kr per year, in addition to the income we also receive from capital earned in the State pension fund abroad. In the budget, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has developed aggregated profiles for, inter alia: the country's future total net cash flow from the petroleum activity. The uncertainty in estimates increases over time, including: as a growing share of the cash flow then comes from projects and measures that have not been decided today. As I understand the question from the representative Stoknes, he wants an estimate of the country's net cash flow from the petroleum business in 2030 with an oil price of $30 per barrel. We have done a simple, static calculation of this, given that all other assumptions, such as oil prices up to 2030 and other input data, are fixed. This means including the level of activity – in a broad sense – production, costs, exchange rates, etc., which underlies our 2018 estimate in the national budget. The estimated accumulating net cash flow from the country from the petroleum activity in 2030 is with these assumptions calculated for more than 100 billion. NOK in 2030 kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1408	A successful climate policy with transition to energy efficiency, bioplastics, renewable energy, electrified transport and heat pumps will lead to lower demand and probably lower oil and gas prices. The Barents Sea could be a loss project for Norway if the oil price is lower than in the Perspective Communication, where the oil price gradually rises from approximately DKK 480 per barrel to DKK 510 per barrel in 2017-krona as of 2025. The perspective statement shows what happens to the oil fund with 100 kroner of lower oil price. But the Stortinget has not been informed of what happens to the profitability of the state if the oil price is lower in the long term, for example. 250 kroner per barrel, which is a serious, plausible scenario. Does the Council agree that when deciding on long-term social investment, the Storting is responsible for asking for a sensitivity analysis showing what the effect of a long-term low oil price will be on the profitability of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1413	Then I have to go back and refer to my original answer, where I stress that, when dealing with the administration and approving plans for expansion and operation, i.e. PUDs, on large, new investment projects on the base, we present to Stortinget the socio-economic profitability – i.e. pre-tax calculations. These analyses also provide sensitivity analyses of oil prices in the course of the process, i.e. both higher and lower oil prices compared to what was estimated in the original profitability calculation. It is precisely to show whether the project is robust or one in relation to the long-term oil price forecasts. It is important to stress that the model is designed in such a way that it is the companies that hold the tightest and that can both take the risks associated with changes in the allowance system, i.e.: higher CO2 prices, and changes in supply and demand related to oil and gas in the future, making the original investment decisions. Then we analyze this and take it into account in our authority approvals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1420	Serious scenarios show how future oil and gas price reductions could significantly reduce the country’s revenue from new fields and show the vulnerability of new petroleum activities in terms of oil and gas prices that are well ahead of time, i.e. after 2030. The establishment of the oil tax has a major impact on the economic risk of the country. A changed oil tax against reduced economic demand and climate risks could have a double effect. The risk of the State is reduced because of the changes in tax rules that make companies more risky in the projects being carried out, while at the same time not carrying out the most risky projects. Does the Council of State agree that it would be reasonable to consider changes in the depreciation period and the free income in order to limit the country's downside risk while at the same time ensuring that projects actually implemented will have a higher expected profitability for the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1427	As I said, initially, the taxation of petroleum activities is based on the same system as for other businesses, except that there is no 23 pst. corporation tax, but 78 pst. of the profits generated by the oil and gas activities. Should the representative of Stoknes now say, be followed up, one must have reduced the level of taxation of the petroleum industry in order to reduce the risk that he points out here, because I believe that the representative Stoknes also wants us to be able to continue to deduct taxes on the expenditure actually incurred by oil companies with their search activities, their expansions and the operation of projects on Norwegian base. If not, it fundamentally violates the principle that applies to all business, that one is deducted from costs and paid tax on profits.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1435	This question, from the representative Per Martin Sandrøen to the Minister for Justice and Defence, will be raised by the representative Emilie Enger Mehl.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1440	‘We rent prison places in the Netherlands for $300 million a year, while enough places are available in Norway and Norwegian criminal services are in need of money. The Council of State should be well aware of the extensive criticism of the scheme by, inter alia, the Civil Ombudsman and a number of hearing bodies. How do the Councils of State deal with the problematic aspects of the rental of Norway's prison, both in terms of economics and in terms of principle, and how is the continuation of the prison agreement compatible with the civil ombudsman's criticism?»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1447	Renting prisons in the Netherlands is an important temporary measure to address a high need for high-security prisons. The red-green government left a paycheck of over 1,200 sentences, and a breach of the deadline for transfer from police detention to custody was common. A single new detention centre had not been planned and the maintenance run was significant. Prison capacity in Norway was therefore very challenging. Victims often met perpetrators between a lie and a lie, and convictions had to put their lives on hold to settle for themselves or did several new criminal acts. The right-wing Party government therefore took important action and started planning and building several new high-security prisons. At the same time, we rehabilitate existing prison sites, as well as temporary rental of prisons in the Netherlands until Norway has enough capacity itself. The measures have been correct. The remuneration queue is now deemed to be liquidated by an unconditional judge. The government is very conscious of the use of money in the public sector, and we will therefore see whether the situation indicates that Norway itself has enough capacity, before we extend the contract with the Netherlands, and before the new prisons in Agder are completed in 2020. It's a situation we follow closely. A basic prerequisite for the agreement was that the parties – the Netherlands and Norway – recognise and are bound by international standards and standards for human rights. The visit report of the Civil Ombudsman has been reviewed and answered, and the comments have been followed up. It is also a fact that a reduction in the coverage gives criminal care greater flexibility to strengthen the content of the compensation and not least the working environment of the employees. Security must always be given priority. The situation we are in, with a slightly lower coating — where temporary or long-term effects have to be assessed before making changes based on it — is to be regarded as an advantage, not least for the working environment and for the follow-up of prisoners. In January, an operational analysis is completed to get an objective description of the situation and the consequences of the ABE reform in criminal matters, and that is something I will come back to in an appropriate way towards Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1460	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. I would like to point out that the responsibility for criminal justice and for own convictions is a fundamental part of being a democratic rule of law. I think it's a pity that the Council of State doesn't see it more clearly as a challenge. There is a lot more than renting in the Netherlands that could have improved Norwegian housing conditions. We have heard a massive criticism that there is too low staffing in Norwegian prisons, which means that prisoners are isolated and there is an increase in violence and threats. Instead of spending money in the Netherlands, we could spend money on higher staffing in Norwegian prisons and building Norwegian prisons. The prison in Vik in Sogn is a very good example. There have been plans to build 30 closed prison sites for more than three years. The cost is 42 million. kr – construction has not taken place. The same applies to the places coming in Agder – construction has still not started. As the Council of State itself said, this should be a temporary solution. Why hasn't the Council of State been able to expand several places earlier and be more on the ball so that this actually became a temporary solution, and not as long as it's now been?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1469	I have to say that it is a little special to receive criticism from a former government party – a party that sat in the former government, and that did nothing at all to solve the challenge picture in criminal custody. Criticizing this government that we actually solved the challenges that the previous government created, there's hardly any reason to take seriously when the criticism comes that way. It is a fact that this government has solved the reconciliation queue. In the puzzle game to get to it, we were – and still are – totally dependent on the prison sites we have in the Netherlands. But as I said in my previous answer, it's a temporary solution. And it's not right that we don't provide more prison grounds. We have been doing this continuously throughout the entire period, while now we are also building Agder prison, which will also facilitate a situation where we do not need prison places in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1474	I thank you again for the Council's reply. It is true that the government has built some prison sites, but it is also going to lay down a lot, which means that the real increase in prison sites is not very large until the prison sites in Agder arrive. I still believe this is a completely wrong use of money. This is about priorities, we're doing priorities other than government. There are a lot of examples of money wasted in the Netherlands. We are e.g. know that if someone needs specialist healthcare while in the Netherlands, they need to be transported to Norway to get to the doctor. There are huge costs for Norwegian prisons to find prisoners who are concerned with the Netherlands and to deal with them when they are frustrated because they are to be sent there against their will — not least the transport going to and from the Netherlands on a general basis. Prisoners and prisoners are both critical — not only those sent by coercion. Last week we also heard about a resident who has been a volunteer in Norwayrhaven. He thought it was good there, but still thought this was a waste of money as long as you can't prioritize the money to Norway. Why does the Council of State not take this criticism seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1481	It is possible that the representative’s party believes that resolving the challenge in Norwegian criminal care is a wrong priority, that it is a mistake to actually wind up the prison queue, as this government has done. But then I have to say I totally disagree. As I have explained, there was a difficult situation in criminal law when this government took over. We had to have temporary facilities available in the process to provide enough prison capacity in Norway. We're doing well, and it'll work out. Prison sites in the Netherlands are temporary, and when we have sufficient capacity in Norway, they will be closed. It is particularly important to get criticism from the opposition that we have solved a problem that has previously been characterised as the biggest challenge in criminal justice. I'm proud of what the government has done, but of course we're following the situation further. There is no independent point in using prison capacity abroad if we do not need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1491	I allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice and Defence: ‘The Central Police Operation Centre in Sogn and Fjordane moved to Bergen on 8 November 2017. The new organisation was to provide citizens with a better supply than they had when the operating centre was in Florø. What provision has been better for the inhabitants of Sogn and Fjordne since the move?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1500	On 10 June 2015, a broad majority in the United Kingdom decided to merge 27 former police districts into 12 new police districts as part of the treatment of the near police reform. Former Hordaland Police Districts and Sogn and Fjordane Police Districts were merged into the West Police District. The main reason for establishing larger police districts is the need to pool competences in a wider professional environment, including the establishment of key functions that small police districts are not able to do alone. Strengthened environments of competence are essential for solving and meeting today’s and tomorrow’s crime challenges. Operational centres with a strengthened capacity and several available patrols under one management have more opportunity to deal with multiple simultaneous incidents in the police district, while providing better and more like police services regardless of where you live. In the Western police district, it was decided to wind up the operation centre in Florø and build a new and larger central facility in Bergen. The West Police District reports that both the police's own teams and the other emergency forces express satisfaction in the way the emergency response is managed and coordinated, and that the technical support for the patrol teams and the interaction with the emergency situation in Sogn and Fjordane in the emergency phase has grown. The people get good services. In addition, the Western police district reports that in some areas, the Operational Centre in Sogn and Fjordane had a broader impact field than the new Operational Centre, among others. as a contact point for local prevention measures and through extensive contact with local media. Through the establishment of police contacts, more obligatory police councils, the establishment of local emergency services and a police patrol to do more police work on the ground, the aim is that work should be done locally, close to where people live. The operational centre shall, first and foremost, direct, support and coordinate the emergency response in emergency situations and in the investigation of crime. In conclusion, I would like to quote the West Police District in that various ways of thinking and different ways of doing tasks have met with the merger of the Operation Centres in the past. New ways of thinking and changing patterns of interaction are developing in a common direction. This, I believe, shows that the near-police reform and the changes that result from it are developing and improving police services for the country's population. This also applies, of course, to the inhabitants of Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1513	It wasn't the history of the police reform I was asking for. I asked: What has been better for the inhabitants of Sogn and Fjordane – because it was actually said that it should be better from the day one for the inhabitants, only one received a larger operating centre. The police have developed a Twitter service that is very good, for she informs very quickly about accidents and events that have happened. The media can address this, it is important information, and it is important prevention when one sees that the police, for example. has per million control and speed control. The night to Saturday there was no notice of anything since Thursday 30 November. There were two traffic accidents, one with personal injury, on the E39 and Rv. 5th@item: inlistbox People didn't know about it. There was a missing woman in Jölster. It was found about two hours before a police officer found it. And journalists have been sitting 15 minutes on the phone trying to get hold of the operating centre to find out what the situation is. Then they call the fire department in Florø and get an immediate answer there. Can the inhabitants experience this as a better service than they had before, when they got a quick response and a good update?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1518	It's possible that in the Central Party's world, everything was better before. I believe that there are good reasons why we are making the changes that are absolutely necessary for the Norwegian police, which are the prerequisites for the reform. Then, as I said in my reply, the West Police District informs us that the professional support for the patrol teams and the interaction with emergency situations in Sogn and Fjordane in the acute phase has grown. And the police district also informs — in the light of feedback they have received — that the impression on the part of the population is that good services are being provided. I can inform you that the West Police District has increased this far in 2017 alone by 21 years' work, 33 of which are police-trained personnel. The new reform and the changes that are happening in the police are necessary to arm the police for the future, but at the same time we are remanding, and that gives more capacity, also in Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1525	Interestingly, the Council of State refers to the West Police District, because I can refer to the Head of Communications Arne Lutro of the West Police District, who says that the police district was aware that there would be reactions after the closure of the Operational Centre in Florø, because the media and the inhabitants of Sogn and Fjordane have the habit of getting faster and more comprehensive information than the central bank in Bergen have the capacity to provide. – It may not be at the level it has been, but it will be so good that it will be satisfactory afterwards, says the Communication Manager. Why did the State Council inform Stortinget that there would be better services for the people of Sogn and Fjordane and failed to tell the facts from the West Police District?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1532	I think the representative should be reluctant to refer to individual opinions in the media, single events that can be seen in the context of contemporary conflicts, and use these single examples as a basis for assessing the important changes that are taking place with the Norwegian police. As I stressed in my reply several times: there is a reason why we are implementing this reform. That's because we need a different police force than what we had decades ago. We need a police force capable of dealing with a more complicated crime scene, for example. offences and crimes committed online. There's a reason why we're doing this. It is always possible to provide single examples of specific challenges facing the police. It'll always be like that. But overall, through this resource effort in the Norwegian police and through the important reform that is being carried out, better police will come out, so there can be no doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1542	I read the question: ‘The first of the new rescue helicopters of type AW101 overturned the Sun on 24 November. It will bring together 16 of these by 2020. The report shall be submitted by the Disaster Commission only after several rescue helicopters have been delivered. Number two is already waiting for Christmas. Is the Council of State saying that this overturning is grounds for postponing the purchase of several helicopters for the reason being clear, or is he certain that this was an appropriate accident that says nothing about the quality or possible defects of helicopters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1551	The helicopter that rolled over the Sun on November 24 was a serious incident that could cause great damage to both humans and material. I am primarily very pleased that there was no personal injury as a result of this incident. The helicopter overturned in the course of ground driving after maintenance should have an important role in preparing for the start of normal operation by the end of 2018. It continued shortly after this event, and it is unclear how the event will affect the deployment of the new helicopters. It is clear that the next rescue helicopter will not have been delivered before Christmas, as was the basis of the plans before this event happened. However, the Ministry of Justice and Defence is actively considering different scenarios to maintain progress in delivery, precisely in order to achieve the targets set for the Stortinget. Of course, the size will also be properly oriented. Maintaining good propulsion is important, but it shall never be at the expense of aviation safety. It is therefore important to clarify the underlying cause of this event. Once all the facts have been clarified, the Ministry of Justice and Defence will assess the consequences of this accident for further testing and phase-in of the new rescue helicopters. As the operator and manager of the helicopters on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and Security, the defence sector is dealing with the follow-up of the incident in order to identify the cause. It is the State Emergency Commission for Defence that handles the further investigation in order to clarify causality and the course of events. It is currently unclear when the information on the ongoing studies will be available. In addition, the supplier, Leonardo Helicopters, has assured the Ministry of Justice and Defence that they are making all necessary resources available to assist in the management of the incident.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1572	I thank you for your answer. To me, it sounds like there's a good deal good in this answer. Nevertheless, it is not so clear that I understand it well enough, so I want to ask a little further: The Council of State states that there is a serious incident and that the causal relationship has not yet been clarified. I have understood that it may take several months, up to a year, before the accident commission has delivered its report. The fact that a new helicopter does not arrive before Christmas, you can be interpreted as a sign that here, a process will be set aside until a reason has come to light. But it's already expected, as far as I understand, a new helicopter in February. The time is running fast, so what I'm wondering is whether the Council of State can clarify, is whether it is actually such that a waiter with the delivery of the ultimate reason for this rollover is clear and one sees whether action needs to be taken, or whether new helicopters may come in the period before the accident commission has delivered the report.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1579	From my perspective, this is about not acting on the basis of lack of knowledge. I'm busy getting the new rescue helicopters phased in. That's essentially what's at stake. I also see no reason to do anything but just that. It is a fact that the helicopters are intended to be put into service on the rescue helicopters during the period 2018-2020. Once all the facts have been clarified, we will assess the consequences of this accident for further testing and phase-in of rescue helicopters. The size will, of course, be oriented, but I would strongly warn against acting at a time when information is not available to make a good assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1586	It can act in different ways. It is either by adding the process to it or by continuing to purchase it. I understand that the department wants to continue to buy, even though one has not explained the reason for the rollover. The Bjørn Ivar Aarseth, head of the NAWSARH project of the Ministry, the procurement project, has stated that such helicopters are not uncommon. What I could think of to the right is, how many people have been wondering about the Sea King helicopters that have been in action for many years, and is this type of thing that you know from time to time actually has to expect with them? An important question is also: What is the good basis for continuing to purchase in the period until the cause of the helicopter is fully clear? One can imagine that the response from the accident commission would be that there was a lack or error with which it should actually have been done something before delivery, and then it might be an advantage to wait with delivery.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1595	I guess the representative understands that I can't represent all the events that have been with our good, dear Sea King helicopters, which have been a great resource for Norway for a long time. I'm concerned that, in the further process, we're adding basic facts, adding basic knowledge, and that's what we're basing the further assessment of progress on. It's my main concern now to get facts in place, which we'll then take into account the further work of phase-in of the new rescue helicopters, which I have to say in many ways are quite amazing machines, which will lift Norway violently in terms of rescue helicopter capacity. So there are good reasons why we have to base our knowledge before we make decisions. I see the representative's concerns, but I can promise that we will follow this closely, and I will come back to Stortinget with the necessary follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1607	‘A large majority of the country’s policemen doubt that the government’s police reform will provide a better police force, according to a survey of 6,000 police officers published by the Police Forum on 22 February this year. At the same time, there is concern that sufficient funds have not been allocated to implement the reform. How much is the police reform estimated to cost, and how is this to be financed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1614	The general objective of the government with the close police reform is to ensure a close police force which is operational, visible and accessible, and which has the capacity to prevent, investigate and prosecute criminal acts and to ensure the security of its citizens. The objective is a competent, effective local police force with robust professional environments that can meet today's, but also future, crime challenges. Major restructurings of a 24-hour continuous operation are challenging. However, the ETA has been able to maintain service production from the start-up year 2016. In 2017 and 2018, the main changes with impact on police district staff are implemented. This poses a temporary risk of poorer performance, and it is therefore closely followed from the department and from my side. I am pleased that this year's police employee survey shows that the whole of 83 pst. is well-satisfied with the work in the establishment and that there is optimism about the reform. The structural measures of the reform will be completed in 2018 and will help to streamline and release resources that can be used to improve the quality of the services provided by the police. Change capacity can then be more concentrated on the development of service provision, development of quality. A number of measures are already in place to increase the quality of investigations and prosecutions across the country. This, together with more police work on the ground and joint criminal action for the entire police district, will produce results. For the 2015–2017 budgets, approximately 575 million have been allocated. additional to the police budget for the implementation of the close police reform. The funds include: granted for the adaptation of old ICT systems to new structures, project organisation, adaptation of new operational centres, the establishment of police joint services, means of conversion and, of course, ICT actions. The accounts figures from 2014 to 2016 and forecasts received by the Ministry from the Directorate of Police for 2017 show that the police are going to spend around 600 million. kr for the same measures during the corresponding period. In addition, approximately 70 million have been allocated. kr between 2014 and 2017 for the co-location of emergency facilities, police, fire and rescue facilities in the new operating centres. The Directorate of Police has estimated that the total investment costs of the near-police reform will amount to about 1.1 billion. kr. In addition to this, the research promise, digitisation and ICT support will amount to about 300 million. kr, and in addition, operating costs are incurred as a result of measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1625	I thank you for your answer. There were subsequently some figures on what has been used so far, but no overall representation of what this will cost in total, and how it will be financed. One of the things that concerns me is that, at a seminar in Oslo on 26 October, the top civil servant of the Ministry of Justice and Defence said that if you read the document presenting the police reform, you will not find an estimate of the cost of the reform measures and that no budget has been made for it. He went on to say about this year's budget that it shows that the operating budget of the police is at best in zero, with a large number of projects being implemented, and showed, among other things, that. for digitisation and manning. He also said that the progress of the reform could be pushed. Then my question is, who are we to trust? Is it the Council of State who is standing here saying that everything is very well, or is it the official who is responsible for the implementation, who says that things are not hanging together, and that there are problems with the funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1634	It's very unfortunate if there was to be an impression that there was a disagreement about the near-police reform. My departmental council, Tor Saglie, has himself assured that of course he wholeheartedly supports the reform work. In meeting with me, the Council of Ministers expressed its dissatisfaction that his talks could create a false impression and uncertainty about the reform process. He does not want to undermine this important work. The ministerial councils have also prepared their position in the media. There is no doubt about the near-police reform. The ministerial councils fully support the planning and implementation of the reform, and there is broad consensus in the Storting that it is necessary to meet the modern crime scene. In the department, we're done with this case. Both political and administrative leadership in the department will unrelentingly follow up on the good and thorough reform work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1641	I hear what the Council of State says, and I have also heard what the Council of Ministers has said in their talks, which are also open online, to hear for everyone. Among other things, he says that the target formulations of the reform do not go hand in hand, that there are target conflicts that are difficult to deal with, and that the problems will materialise over time and perhaps increase the level of conflict. These are quite large, serious and worrying signals from the Council of Ministers. He also pointed out that, in terms of the target formulations, on the one hand, it is said that a near-police should come out of the community, while at the same time it is a goal formulation to have fewer LEN offices and police districts. Of course it won't be a near-police. There will be a strong centralisation of the police. When can we expect a sincere presentation of the reform by the Minister, and is it now that the Council of Ministers has received a verbal voice when it comes to expressing its views on the police reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1648	As I clearly said in my previous answer, both the political leadership of the department and the ministerial council are done with this matter. The good work continues, and he fully supports the reform, which, of course, the Council of Ministers is expected to do. I think it's a little strange when you try to present the classic problem that the Center Party is constantly pushing forward – near-police, not near-police, etc. It is a fact that if the Center Party is briefing in the media on the daily situation, it will be seen that online crime is a major challenge, and where police are requested to deal with this type of very challenging and complex crime, which requires larger environments capable of dealing with it. It's an important point when we talk about near-police, because the web hits everyone, the network is close, and it's through the police reform that we're able to deliver police services to a greater extent in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1655	That being the case, it is no. 2, Ordinary Question Time, over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-06.ana.ud570e1669	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
