ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e98	The representatives of Marianne Aasen, Knut Storberget, Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Tor André Johnsen, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal, Ingrid Heggø and Sveinung Rotevatern, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For East Agder counties: Line Kisses Vennesland For Northern Ireland: Tone-Helen Toften For Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen The Workers' Group has been informed that the granted leave of the representative Sverre Myrli has been withdrawn. – This message is taken into account. The requested alternate of the Aust-Agder County, Lene Langemyr, has received an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget on 29 May under the leave of the representative Inbjørg Amanda Vogskesen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the Aust-Agder County, Odd Gunnar Tveit, are invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e176	Odd Gunnar Tveit is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e196	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e205	First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation in the work on this big message on social security and preparedness. It was the Stortinget that asked the government to present a big message on social security in 2016. The background to this was the consideration of Innst by the Control and Constitutional Committee. 396 S for 2014-2015, on the National Audit Office’s study of the Ministry of Justice’s work on social security and preparedness. The Communication ‘Risk in a Secure Society’ addresses many overarching areas of social security and preparedness across a wide range of themes. In the Communication, the government is bringing forward eight areas of great importance for the social security of our country. Four of these relate to specific threats and risks in the field of social security. This applies, inter alia, to: digital vulnerability and ICT security, in the case of serious natural events, serious crime, and in the case of infectious diseases and dangerous substances – improved CBRNE preparedness. Four chapters deal with different aspects of work to improve social security and, in particular, our ability to manage events, civil-military cooperation, attitudes, culture and leadership for good social security and learning after exercises and events. I will come back to several of these chapters later in my posts. Briefly about the main impression of the message and that it came so late in the period: now we've been on for four years, and it's almost six years since the events in 2011. The government lists no less than 103 points for what it does in the field of social security. It's little new to read, and there's little or no sign of a big grip that will secure our security, and how we're going to deal with such disasters. In particular, as regards digital vulnerability and ICT security, we expected more. We see that there has been little follow-up of Light I and II, and not least of the setting of the Traavik Committee. We see that the government is notifying an additional message in this area, and we are now amazed that it is not included in the overall message of social security and preparedness, when the government now had the opportunity and the Storting asked for such a big message. The Committee would stress that Norway is one of the safest countries in the world to live and live in. We have a stable and democratic society with a low level of conflict. Social security is affected both by the development of our own society and, not least, by the global trends we see. The Committee believes that developments we see and experience in other parts of the world have implications for our own security and vulnerability. We are experiencing serious events that can have disastrous consequences for the individual and major consequences for society. This places great demands on how, as a society, we are able to deal with increasing conflicts in an increasingly troubled world. Businesses and organisations, elected representatives, media and society as a whole experience that globalisation and digitisation give individuals and society the opportunity to create new solutions, but also intersectoral, responsibilities and borders. This globalisation has led to an increasing flow of goods, services and people. We travel more often and longer than before. This increases the risk of, inter alia: serious infectious diseases occurring in other parts of the world. On the basis of the events of 22 July 2011, the Committee will be particularly concerned about how, as a society, we have been able to take on the experience we gained following the serious terrorist attacks against the government quarter of Oslo and the summer camp of the AUF on Utøya. One of the success factors we've experienced was that those who are going to deal with such serious events know each other in advance and each other's resources, and that they have enough training and combination. The Committee would stress the importance of the police responsible for the immediate organisation and coordination of rescue and accident and disaster situations. Police staff have increased in recent years, but it is still important that the national target of having two police officers or women per thousand inhabitants be maintained by 2020. Here the Committee would stress the importance of the future manning growth towards police districts and the reduction of response time in the new police districts. It's likely that the unlikely will happen. We can't be sure of everything. Such a society is neither desirable nor possible in an open and free democracy. Despite that, we need to do everything we can to prevent and prevent serious incidents occurring in Norway. Finally, I would like to address the proposals made by the Workers' Party, either alone or together with the Centre Party, in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e235	The representative Jorodd Asphjell has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e240	We live in a more uncertain world, and we also see that Europe has become more uncertain. Unfortunately, there is an uncertainty between European countries about how to stick together. The will for cohesion, internally and between countries, has been tested. Deepest is Europe’s will and ability to stand up for us that is crucial to our defence and crisis management, and it also requires a Norway that stands up for Europe. In this context, the government has presented a long-term defence plan, where the defence will be strengthened by 180 billion. NOK over the next 20 years. Our NATO commitments stand firm, and NATO is the only alliance in Europe with collective defence obligations. The communication provides a good insight into and a good account of social security and the security of the individual, but it also dwells on the security of the state and the conditions that can challenge it through a military attack. On 22 July the Commission took a hard decision on Norwegian preparedness and the ability of the authorities to manage the emergency response apparatus. The attack on the government quarter could have been averted, the terrorist could have been stopped on his way to the Utjay – but the resources did not find each other. This report has been a heavy one for the government to bear. Preparedness work, and improved preparedness, has been the top priority of the government. As the report points out, terrorism, organised crime and cybercrime are new forms of crime that we are now facing and that have come to our country very quickly. This is precisely why the police are now being reorganized. By enabling the police to deal with these threats, society will also have better preparedness and better security for its citizens. For example, 150 000 people are being cheated by data crime in a year, and 30 pst. of the notifications are related to the criminality of the data. It goes without saying that we need to streamline resources and improve the research environment and competences in these areas. I was a little surprised when I read the comments of the Workers' Party and the proposal of the Workers' Party, which says that support and assistance to the police will be essential for the dimensioning of the Home Office, the Special Forces, the cyber defence and the helicopters. It's a whole new way of thinking. Properly, it is important to make the best possible use of society's overall response capacities, but these are military capabilities that have military purposes as their task and war effort as their priority job. Is it so to understand that the Workers' Party now considers these important military capabilities primarily as capacities to support police and civil society? In that case, there's a whole new way of thinking. So my question to the Labour Party's judicial fraction is, is this a justice fraction that's been out of free thinking in the field of defence and foreign policy? Is this anchored and discussed with the Defence and Foreign Fraction in the Workers' Party? Or is it perhaps in the worst case a political adviser who has been at play without the Justice faction having followed up on what has been written? This is quite alarming, and I expect the representatives of the Workers' Party to clarify during the debate what is meant by this point. Is it to understand that these important military capabilities are now primarily for civil use? In that case, it is a change of pace and a significant change in the defence policy of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e255	There is no doubt that there is an important debate today by the Stortinget. I have enjoyed being on many of these – from Kåre Willoch’s proposal for a Ministry of the Interior nearly 14-15 years ago until what we are discussing today. What is continuous is a desire to screen and take care of your own inhabitants in the best possible way. There will be constant balances between what we're able to do, what we can do, and the vulnerability we have to accept. That's at least how I understand this. That means you have to go in and define and see where you have to add the list. It's possible we can prevent everything, but then I think we'll get a society that nobody's going to like. That's why you have to take into account that some things we have to accept because the chance of that happening is essentially minimal. We're vulnerable and we have to accept that. At the same time, this debate focuses on what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. I have seen in the process that others outside the Storting have had opinions. I've read Robert Moen's film with interest, I've seen recordings from the former head of the emergency team, Anders Snortheimsmoen, and not least from someone named Tor Husjord, who is head of SARINOR, who is mentioned in the settings. These are people with capacity and knowledge that I think the Storting should listen to. Even though the Council of State presents what the government stands for, I think that the Storting should also have the ability to listen wider, because there are recordings from other people, who have the best intentions, who don't want to hit either government or greatness, but who come up with points. At least I have a lot of respect for that. These are people who don't black paint, but who want to help things get better overall. I think back on what was mentioned earlier here today: after July 22nd, we experienced in a way that we were not as good as we wanted to be. I feel convinced – I am sure – that Jens Stoltenberg, as Prime Minister, felt confident that what he had established was working well. In retrospect, it's shown that it wasn't a fact. So there was a continuous failure in many areas, where I assume and assume that the government that was set up then was sure that this was going to go well. On any such occasion – it has happened before, and it is going to happen again – we have to take the facts into account, and then we have to raise our eyes and think: What do we have to do now to move on? I feel that is what has been put forward for discussion today. At the end of the day, there is one crucial factor: people, individuals when crises occur – people in the office, in the system, in the private sector – who know what their job is, what their function is, and how to do it when crises occur. We can plan for the cramp to take us. It does nothing if not those who are going to do the job can do it themselves and are able to act afterwards when something happens. Therefore, as I said, the key to success is the efforts of individuals when crises occur. Let me also say something at a little bit more detail about things that I think are important. I am very pleased that the committee describes to a large extent search and rescue. It's been one of my political heart children since I got here. That's still that. I'm very pleased with what the committee writes, and I hope the government follows it up. Cooperation with police–defence is equally important, and customs, of course, is also a factor in this. In recent times, there has also been a discussion in various media about the police directorate and the police director’s ability to follow-up decisions. I think it has something to do with leadership, that it has something to do with understanding. At the same time, I'm glad that the Council of State has been so clear that he's the boss, he's the king of the hill. Then I expect that he is able to communicate clearly with the police director, so that it can become clear once and for all that it is the Stortinget that gives leadership, it is the council that ensures that his office implements what the Stortinget has said. In any case, I believe that it is far beyond what is acceptable if a police director and others start to discuss the idea in Stortinget. It's okay for the Storting itself to do with luck – and sometimes not with a lot of luck. But again, it's a right and duty that the Storting actually has. So it's like, when you discuss social security in a bigger perspective, it sometimes takes longer than we want. I took part in a debate in this Chamber on 16 May 2002. Then we decided to purchase new rescue helicopters – 15 years ago. I haven't seen one single rescue helicopter yet. We made a decision in 2001 on the delivery of new NH-90 helicopters to the Coast Guard in 2005. Yes, we've got some helicopters – not the ones we're going to have, but it's probably going to happen in the future. So you have to bear in mind that even if the Storting makes a decision, things take time – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e272	I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur and the committee for their good work on an important matter. When we just passed 17 May and many of us gave 17 May talks about the values we set high in the country, it is also important to remind each other that we are a vulnerable country. But in terms of the values we appreciate – trust in each other, the good opportunities we have to move safely – it's the way we discuss in the setting that we'll never be able to do it 100 pst. Sure, or for the sake of doing it 100 pst. safe, in the sense that you need to monitor everything and everyone. But that's why it's also important, I think, to start also my post today by saying that there's a lot we can do all the time, whether it's monitoring or preparedness, but the most important thing we have to do all the time is to build the country on values, build on education, so that the inhabitants and the individuals make good choices. But there's a lot we can't afford, whether it's natural disasters or serious events. We know that climate change is going to cause more events. And then we have to be prepared for it. Then it is also in place to extend a great thank you to all the volunteers and all the organisations that are doing an incredibly great rescue work and securing work on that piece. But we also know that serious crime is a major challenge. The recent attack in Manchester is probably a reminder that terror is more frequent and more frequent. But other types of crime, which are becoming more advanced, which is becoming more digital, are also creating major challenges. The great cyberattack that just happened is another reminder of how much more of the crime is happening in the digital space. It is a major and important issue that we also discuss in the vote, where the Workers' Party and the Centre also have some suggestions. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that there will be a news report of cybercrime on our own, and we believe it is right to discuss the various proposals in that context. While we are having this debate, there is also consultation on an important matter in the Control Committee, which concerns object security and the National Audit Office's report on terrorist protection. It came in October last year with massive criticism of the government's work on terrorist protection of critical infrastructure and important buildings. In the 2015 survey, the Riksrevision found it to be very serious shortcomings in the work and, according to the Report, ‘probability that neither the police nor the Defense, together or separately, will be able to exercise adequate protection of essential objects when a threat situation so warrants’. As many people have been involved, there has been a clear focus on this team and coordination since 22 July. The National Audit Office therefore believes that cooperation between police and defence is still not good enough, and that is serious. But also, as the representative Ellings was inside at the end of his post, what we read about the Police Directorate lately, I think is alarming. I like that we have agencies and professional authorities that challenge politicians and ask the right, difficult questions. However, once the decisions have been taken, the decisions shall also be followed up, and at least not – if it results in correctness, what VG writes – in that way. But this is a field where there are an incredible number of different offices, municipalities, county officials, directorates, trade unions, departments – working together. It also means that cooperatives and training together need to be emphasised. That's why I've been concerned with the exercise that's between defense and police -- Gemini -- that wasn't done together for maybe different reasons, but it was probably an example that for a long time, you have to strive to work together, practice together, so that you can also deal with events in a better way. So finally, I'm glad the committee writes together as much as we do. It's a field that's too important to pursue party politics in that sense. This is an area where we know that it's going to happen unforeseen events. That's not all we can prevent, but together we can make good suggestions and find the best solutions to create a safest society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e292	We will deal with today Report. St. 10 for 2016–2017, Risk in a Secure Society. The communication deals with many important issues in the area of social security, and it concerns different sectors and cross-sectoral areas. One of the most important tasks for the authorities is to ensure that the inhabitants are safe. Social security is about prevention, about being prepared to deal with unexpected events, and not least about facilitating learning from events that have been. The four basic principles are responsibility, equality, proximity and cooperation. For our society to be safe, we depend on a good interaction between public, private, voluntary, community and individual. Good social security is thus dependent on many actors. In particular, efforts in local communities are important, where both professionals and volunteers make a great effort to ensure that citizens are safe. In this context, I would like to highlight the importance of the part-time fire and rescue service personnel. They have local knowledge and a wide range of professional backgrounds, and they are part of the community and of the municipalities where they need help. Part-time teams are also more important when it comes to other tasks that guarantee local social security. It is important that we facilitate the maintenance of the recruitment of part-time workers. In the event of a fire or accident, the time it takes for the aid to arrive may be decisive. The part-time team is a resource that has a significant impact on local preparedness across the country. They're close enough to be the first to come and help people in need. They have competence for important tasks such as securing a place of injury, cutting loose people who are trapped, providing first aid and stabilising damaged people. I would therefore like to stress that we must be careful to make such high demands from the central point of view that we hit our legs under the part-time team scheme. The part-time team has another main employer, and too high a requirement for time spent in training may go beyond the recruitment of the fire and rescue services. It is important to have this perspective when new requirements are developed from a central point of view. One should ensure good competence – we are all in – but one must not make such high demands on time use that it ends up not being able to take on someone who can take on the important task of being part-time workers. I would also like to stress that the fire and rescue service is a municipal responsibility. This must be taken into account when drafting a new dimensioning regulation. I want to refer to the KS hearing statement in connection with the message, where they say: ‘The regulations should only provide a framework for the organisation so that there is flexibility in finding solutions that are best suited to local needs and resources, such as those relating to the functional geographical areas of the various fire and rescue services, and based on the fact that this is – and remains – a municipal responsibility.’ I'm saying I agree with this. I think there is every reason to be critical of making central demands for three full-time options in the lease, which will make it difficult for many municipalities to have a private fire and rescue service. If the municipalities are unable to defend three full-time settings, they must then enter into joint fire and rescue services with other municipalities, including centralised leases and the risk of loss of rights and resources. I don't want a development where resources and decision-making disappear into central struts and go beyond security in the districts. I also want to say something about the emergency network. The subscription system we have today is a district enemy and is particularly unfortunate for small municipalities. I think it must be a central goal to find a reasonable way to fund the emergency network that does not give unfair results for some municipalities. The voluntary organisations in the rescue service also need to know if they will be able to meet the additional costs they have received as a result of the need to purchase more terminals. The last theme I want to cover, I'll come back to in a separate article.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e323	Social security is a broad, important and demanding area that the government has high on the agenda. The paper Risk in a secure society is the government's strategy for work on social security from a four-year perspective. Norway is one of the safest countries in the world to live in. Willingness is all good, and it's getting better and better. But there's more to it than that: Europe experiences heartbreaking and senseless terrorist actions, most recently at a concert with many children in Manchester. Fortunately, digital attacks do not take life, but are still serious and can eliminate critical societal functions. The digital attack on WannaCry, which the world recently experienced, is an example of how society is vulnerable to digital in a completely different way than before. There is a change in the security policy situation in our neighbourhoods. Violent extremism and acts of terrorism in Europe are other examples of developments that concern and need to be taken seriously. Antibiotic-resistant bacteria and increased risk of flooding, race and extreme weather show the breadth of the challenge we face. To succeed in good social security work, we need special attention where the challenges are greatest. The government has therefore chosen to highlight eight key areas of importance for social security. The four main areas relate to specific threats and risks. These are cross-sectoral challenges and have global dimensions. They can lead to serious incidents, and they will require broad and long-term action. These are: digital vulnerability and ICT security serious natural occurrences; serious crime; infectious diseases and dangerous substances – improved CBRNE preparedness The last four areas deal with different aspects of work to improve social security and management ability, regardless of concrete risks. These are: our ability to handle events civil-military cooperation and total defence the attitude, culture and management of good social security; learning by exercises and events We can't know what challenges the future will bring, but the eight areas the government here focuses on, we know will be important in the years to come. Digitalisation is an important asset in society, but the security of digital solutions challenges us significantly at the same time. The announcement we are debating today shows the government's overall policy in this area. In addition, in a short time, the government is promoting its own ICT security hotspot, which provides an overview of the status of follow-up to the recommendation in the digital vulnerability committee’s investigation. In the Communication, the Government will also focus on selected areas of particular importance for national ICT security. Overall, the two communications provide a good basis for a good national ICT security policy. The security policy situation has changed in a few years. We are affected both in our neighbourhoods and by changes in other parts of the world. Good civil-military cooperation and the revitalisation of total defence are essential for us to be able to cope well with both civil, military and hybrid crises. The work of NATO is well coordinated and the expectations of NATO are of civil resilience. Serious crime is one of the areas highlighted by the government in the communication. Early preventive efforts against radicalisation and violent extremism, enhanced analytical capacity of the PST and enhanced joint efforts against intelligence, including a common cyber coordination centre, are some important keywords. The message is called Risk in a Secure Society. Norway is a safe society. But we're at the same time at risk. The future is going to carry unwanted events, and the government is working every day to avoid serious incidents and for good preparedness if crises occur. At the same time, we must recognise that there are limits to safety. We do not want a society that is permeated by security measures at the expense of freedom and other important values. We must balance the need for security against other considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e385	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e390	Communication, interaction and interoperability are an important part of social security and preparedness work. Good culture and good governance shall be based on trust between the police and the Ministry of Justice and not least society. For several days now, we have seen several articles from the VG where they say that they reveal that this cooperation, or interaction, between the Minister of Justice and Security and the Police Directorate is not quite good. Does the Council of State believe that what is revealed by the VG strengthens confidence in good preparedness and social security work by the Council of State and up against the Police Directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e398	Like the representative, I also read the VG, and I see the statements that are made. I do not ignore the fact that in the past there have been some challenges in these matters, but let me say this: the situation today is that it does not – and I would stress this – experience in any way that political decisions in the department, or in the Stortinget, are trained by underlying agencies. I'm going to be very clear that if I had experienced it, I would also have acted. Then it would have had consequences. This is not something I recognize in today's situation. We have good lines, clear management, and Storting's intentions are being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e405	I want to follow up on the question from the representative of Asphjell. When the Stortinge adopted the near-police reform, we were clear that we wanted to have the emergency services together, for both fire and police, but also to facilitate health, and we used the example of Drammen as one of the successful ones. Then we read the reports in VG. One should always be critical of whether everything there is correctly described, but when a read report about what happened in Bodø, where there was a desire to get to a central for both health, fire and police, and that it was countered by the POD, I was very surprised. So my question is simply: is it right that POD countered it, and can the Minister of Justice then live with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e414	As I was also quite clear in the previous line: I do not feel that the underlying offices are in any way countering the political decisions taken in the Ministry of Justice. If it had been so, it would have been seized. I know that there have been processes in the past, but when my predecessor, Anders Anundsen, was challenged by this, I felt that he said the same thing, that he didn't experience it either, but that there may be processes in departments with underlying agencies, between political management, that are about identifying important issues that should be prerequisites for the final decision. See, that's another thing, but training hasn't happened to me, and I wouldn't have accepted it if it happened from the Police Directorate or any other agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e421	I am glad that the Council of State is clear on that, and there is nothing else to expect, but therefore I will again ask the question: Is it so that POD actually tried to prevent the establishment of a joint emergency centre in Bodø?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e426	I think you'll have to look at the timelines there. I guess that's what was considered problematic in that context. What I perceive, based on what I have read – but again: I was not the Council of State at that time – was that no final decision had been made on the seat of the new police districts. Starting to set up new co-located emergency centres would be perceived as pre-empting what was to be a decision on the basis of thorough processes. It could have taken another step, that is, that a decision was taken and action was taken before a formal decision was made on the location of the main seat. That, I think, could have been a problematized very quickly. But as I said, I wasn't the Council of State at that time. I base what my predecessor says, namely that he assumed that there has been a clear follow-up to policy decisions for underlying agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e433	In the Center Party, we are concerned that the fire and rescue service will operate throughout the country. Part-time teams are particularly important in this way. These are people who have another main employer, but who set up in a short time when it's necessary, and are involved in saving lives, in between, with a risk to their own lives and their health. My question to the Council of State is whether he also sees that it might harm the part-time workforce scheme if there is too much central demand to spend time on training. Will the Council of State avoid requirements that may make it more difficult to retain and recruit part-time workers, or will he ignore the critical objections that arise?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e440	I am very concerned that we initially have a good fire and rescue service, but that we should facilitate the conditions so that we can make it even better. Then, of course, competence is important. There's a lot of ways to do it. I think it is also quite fundamental that the fire and rescue services are present widely throughout the country. It is about response time when the accident is out, which is absolutely essential for the fire and rescue services to act quickly on situations. So we have to find a good balance. I have no intention of making such high demands that it prevents the recruitment of volunteers, in which case it would be an unwise way to proceed. But we have to have a balance in it. I believe that by means of distance learning and other adaptations, we can better facilitate the introduction of that competence across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e449	I refer to the questions from Asphjell and Roppstad about the lookups in VG, not least the last of today, about Bodø. Reference is made to the fact that, in the case of co-location in Bodø, the police are not to move to the fire service, but the fire service is to move to the police. My question is whether this is correct. Is this expressed by the Police Directorate of the police officers in Bodø, and, not least, what does the Council of State think of such an arrest?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e456	I have no habit of commenting on the fact based on newspaper articles – it is in VG or elsewhere. I see claims about the process coming back in time, when they chose the main seat and also the emergency centre for the Nordland police district. I don't want to comment on it any further, but I'm going to base what my predecessor says, that the political decisions were taken. It's a matter of course, it'll be in the future as well. As I said, I have not experienced in my time as the Council of State that the Police Directorate or other underlying agencies have opposed political decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e461	I'm not asking about the fact on the basis of what's in the VG. I think everyone might have experienced as politicians that there might be things in the newspapers that don't give a covering picture of the actual situation. I'm asking about the fact, as the Council of State knows it: once this claim has been raised in public space -- that in the Directorate of Police, it was that the police shouldn't move to the fire service, that the truth is that the fire service comes to the police, that there is something in the power relationship between these two agencies that requires it to be done this way, and that's the fact that the government council knows it -- I'm looking to get on the table if he knows it at all. Has he found out about this, has he taken any initiative to get these facts on the table? Is it true that from the leadership of the Police Directorate it has expressed this kind of hold, and what do the Council of State think about that hold?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e468	It's a little challenging for me over the table and based on a newspaper article in the world's time to express myself on intentions and opinions that must have emerged from an underlying establishment several years ago in time. I wasn't the Council of State at that time. I base what my predecessors say, that the processes were kept safe, and that political decisions were followed up. At least there can be no doubt – insofar as there was a disagreement – about who actually got through. That, of course, was the political resolution. I'm going to go up to Bodø on June 6th and join the opening of the co-located emergency centre there. It's great, and it's now being realized as a number. 2nd paragraph 3 coming later this year – and another two next years. We're in the process, and we're delivering according to Storting's assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e476	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e483	One can experience and feel quite a lot here in life, but any government will be measured by how one's ability to handle crises and serious events in our society. Social security is the ability of society to protect itself against and manage events that threaten fundamental values and functions and that endanger life and health. Such events may be triggered by nature, as a result of technical or human error or deliberate action. The work on social security involves municipalities, county councillors, directorates, national professional bodies, ministries and, in particular, the government. The four basic principles of responsibility, equality, proximity and cooperation must and must form the basis for this work. They clarify the responsibilities of actors and provide leadership for cooperation and management of different events in our society. Social security work consists of several stages, often referred to as a chain. This chain includes knowledge-building, prevention and preparedness for incidents, management of and recovery from incidents and, in particular, learning after events and exercises. The Committee has emphasised in its position that work on social security must be systematic, where it is important to have knowledge and knowledge of weaknesses and strengths within all stages of the social security chain. Better knowledge and experience-based planning makes work more targeted and effective. It is always the operational resources, such as fire and rescue personnel, police and ambulance personnel, which, together with the rescue helicopter service and the rescue company, constitute the planned operational preparedness of the society and, where necessary, in cooperation with, inter alia: Civil defence and non-governmental organisations constitute the operational resources at the site of the accident, or perform rescue operations for people in distress around our country. Together with the Defence, these operational resources constitute the spearhead in the work on social security. A secure and resilient society requires cooperation and joint action. It's about our ability to mobilize quickly, take responsibility and take action. The ability to respond quickly is influenced by the culture we have to take responsibility and contribute to the community. In combination with knowledge and knowledge of local conditions, a person will manage and limit adverse effects such as: floods, races and fires, etc.; The integrity of society cannot be established once and for all, and it is not constant. The development and strengthening of society’s resilience is a continuous process. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, will indicate that the Government has commissioned the DSB to submit proposals for a new dimensioning regulation adapted to a major fire collaboration and a new training model for fire and rescue personnel. The requirements to be assessed include full-time management of the fire chief, etc. The same majority would stress the importance of providing full-time and part-time training in the fire and rescue services to all those working full-time and part-time. At the same time, we need to facilitate the maintenance of good recruitment for the part-time team, which represents an important and good resource in the preparedness work throughout the country. The majority would stress that the fire and rescue service is a municipal responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e500	The big news we are debating today shows that the government will set up a selection to consider expanding the scope of law on special advisers during war, war hazards and similar situations. Paragraph 3 says that when the kingdom is at war, it is threatened by war, or there are serious threats to the security or independence of the kingdom, the government may deviate from the laws, or may even provide laws. The government's choice will be made to consider whether the government should also be able to do so in the event of a major influx of asylum, infrastructure collapse, accidents, epidemics and natural disasters, among others. whether there is a lack of resources that makes it impossible or very difficult to comply with the rights of the individual or whether there is a need to set aside procedural rules because of the situation. I would like to stress that Section 3 is a concreteisation of constitutional rights that only applies to serious events in particular. There should be a lot of time for it to be expanded or the threshold to be delayed, as the government now says it will consider. The government has not demonstrated the need to deviate from the laws or even to provide legal information in the cases they have mentioned. I am particularly critical that the lack of resources should enable the government to set aside legal certainty guarantees. If we think back to the great pressure on the administration and welfare services that occurred in the context of the big asylum influx in 2015, it was not missing in our law that was the most striking. The most striking thing was a lack of rapid response from the government. They did not take the situation seriously enough, and there is a lack of coordination and governance. They may call this lack of resources, but it would be a distortion of reality, and the situation that occurred is inappropriate to justify a rule change. That's why I think it's wrong if the government dropped a selection to look at the possibilities to expand the constitutional rights. Otherwise, I will refer you to the comments about this in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e511	It is good to deal with a big message of preparedness and social security that tries to capture the wide scope within this field. It's about much more than just the police, it's about the interaction between the nudeta, it's about prevention, it's about culture and leadership, and it's not least about new threats, it's about digital vulnerability. It is also the case that there has been a part within Norwegian preparedness. Some important initiatives have been launched, others are planned or planned. But there are also some important gaps, and I limit my post to dealing with this, for the sake of time usage. Some of the most important shortcomings are that the main initiatives in this field, in terms of social security and preparedness, are on time, and the bill for this is going to be quite large. She'll have to pick us up after this fall. There is still no money left to build a national emergency centre. A regulation for construction on Taraldrud has been sent out on the phone, and it's fine, even though the government confirms that one could have built an emergency centre on Alnabru with faster progress. They are confirmed in the budget of the Ministry of Justice's budget, in the autumn of 2014, which states that an emergency centre can be integrated into Alnabru. So they've tried in several ways to talk away from this. They tend to ignore this fact when I record it, and I really think they do today too, but it would have been possible, and they document it themselves. The important thing now is that the center is built, even if the progress and the bill remain. The government hasn't seen any money to buy police helicopters either. It's set of money for procurement, but the real bill comes when you have to pay for police helicopters, i.e. in the next government period. In addition, today's industry has demonstrated that the boating capacity of the rescue team has been reduced. The Commissioner's own figures show that the number of police officers in the districts has fallen, and it is worth noting, when the Commission's report of 22 July is so clear that the main response is for the ordinary police. In the control committee, one is now also considering a case where defence and police do not intend to protect societal critical objects. This documents the Riksrevision, and we also see in the news that we are now discussing that there are no significant initiatives from the government to reduce ICT and cyber vulnerability in addition to distribution and discussion. We look forward to a future big message about exactly this, linked to digital vulnerability. It will be too late, if necessary, to be treated during this landfilling period. It is yet another example of an important theme that has been forested, forested, so that initiatives will come later in time. The profile of the Right-Forward Party Government has held on this field does not match the implementation functions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e528	I just need to say – from the spokesperson of Stortinget – that I have full confidence in the former police officer in Salten, Geir Ove Heir, and the former rapporteur in Bodø, Ole-Henrik Hjarkøj, in the discussion on the co-location in Bodø.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e533	‘Total preparedness’ is an important indication of how cooperation between defence and the civil sector should be in the area of social security and preparedness. I heard that the representative of the Harek Riveres was a little surprised at the liberation from the Workers' Party's judicial fraction. I can reassure the representative that renunciation is one thing, but we have also adopted this in our party programme at the national meeting, which is a political workshop. We want to look forward, into a new era, into a new future, with new opportunities and new challenges, and not just lean on what is, and look back in time. It is at least the vision of the Workers' Party to create a safer society and, not least, to make the best use of resources, both in defence policy and in civil work. I also understand from the representative Ellingen that things take time. It is good to hear that the Progress Party also experiences it in many contexts, and not least that the Council of State experiences and feels that decisions are being followed up. But there is a bit of the challenge here: not only do we have to experience and feel, we also have to address the challenges that exist, and see how we are going to deal with them in the best possible way. Good social security is about attitudes, culture and management. It is then important that both the decision of the Storting and the work of the government are followed up in all the underlying agencies, so that we ensure that cooperation and interaction in all areas are well done. It's not least about learning by exercises and events. I see that international cooperation related to the work on social security in the north and Svalbard is also mentioned, where the Committee has a joint comment on the challenges we see related to the increasing traffic we see in the north, linked to the Polar Code. I was so lucky to be able to join the SArex, Search and Rescue exercise, at Svalbard in May. There we experienced and saw – together with suppliers of equipment such as lifeboats, liferafts, lifesaving equipment, etc. – the challenges that arise if a loss occurs in these areas. It is important that these types of exercises are carried out several times, and that there are not only suppliers of equipment, but not least those operating in these areas, who are allowed to use the equipment, try it and know the body what it is like to lie in a fleet, and what the likelihood of survival is, and what requirements we as countries should impose on those who are going to be in these areas, and what resources we as countries should use to save people from serious incidents in these areas. So it's also an important part – that we take inwards that we have large areas and large waters, and that we have an important social security and preparedness work related to this area. KV «Svalbard», which travels in this area, does an important job with the crew on board those boats.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e544	I would like to thank Mr Asphjell for his reply. If it was not elucidating, it was at least alarming. The fact that the helicopters, the Home Office and the Special Forces are now primarily to have a civil task is a direct rethinking and reorientation by the Workers' Party. The conclusion of this is that military defence will be weakened. I dare remind you that the Home Guard is, in fact, a defense of its own. But the clarification came from the pulpit, and it's worth noting at a time when there's actually a need to strengthen the military defense, not weaken it. The representative Tajik took up the emergency centre at Alnabru. It is basically quite bold that the representative does it again. It was the Workers' Party that proposed that the Emergency Centre be located in Alnabru. Haste works are cargo works. The basic error was that it was not possible to distinguish between the net and the gross factor when calculating the area of the emergency centre and presented a cost estimate that was much lower than what is actually the real cost. Of course, the new government pursued this proposal, but as the new government made this quality assurance, it was found that this was completely impracticable. Then I have to remind the representative Tajik that the state actually uses the cash principle in its accounting. The government has contracted three new police helicopters and allocated money to the payments that follow in 2017 for that acquisition. Of course, the maximum amounts are set when the money is due and the helicopters are delivered. It's actually a natural consequence of how the state operates in terms of payment and accounting. Finally, as far as cybercrime is concerned, yes, it's a serious area that's come up rather harshly. But also here the government has taken a number of measures, including: establish a dedicated cyber coordination centre between the E service, the national safety authority and the PST. The interaction between these departments is superfluous, and we have also established a common counter-terrorism centre between the PST and the E service. Finally, I would like to say that this government has actually granted over 100 million. to increase data security in society and in the public sector in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e557	In several cases, we have seen that when it comes to listing measures, the government does not distinguish between what is going on and what is going to happen in the future. I actually think it would have been more informative to get this divided into two: this has been initiated by the government, and we will do this. It could be that there are purely editorial assessments that have been made. I will not suggest that this - will-we-do-list had been relatively short, because I have not spoken up. But I want to move on to what the council said in the reply. Several times he said that he “experienced”. It's a nice word - a little synonymous with "I have a feeling of". When the Council of State ‘ experiences’, that is, has a sense of control over the underlying agencies, it is not very reliable, at least not to me. Either we have control, or we don't have control. Every government has to solve the most important challenges it has on its guard, and it has to keep up with them in its time. When the world changes, political priorities also have to change. This means that preparedness must always be adapted to the threat picture. I am surprised that the Workers' Party and the Centre are not supported by their proposals to strengthen their work on threats and crime online. The first one is: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen its competence in cybersecurity and to clarify the necessary roles and responsibilities in dealing with cyber-related crises that may affect institutions of social critical importance.’ Why is this not supported by the Right Party Government? The second: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that cybersecurity is specifically assessed in the development and operation of new public services and systems’.» Why do they not support this either? The third: ‘The government is asking for the government to return to the Grand Duchy in the context of the 2018 budget with a plan for the establishment of a national centre to prevent and combat ICT crime.’ This has been proposed by the government's own selection, but the Right Party government is therefore opposed to the proposal. The Council of State said in its statement that digital vulnerability and ICT security are one of the main concerns of the EEAS. Nevertheless, they are against these proposals. A centre against ICT crime has previously been proposed by the government’s own appointed sample. Director of the Center for Cyber and Information Security, Sofie Nystrøm, as set out in this sample, stated on 16 May in Today's Business that government should do more to secure society against cybercrime. We agree. Unfortunately, the government parties do not agree with this. The government investigates a lot, but does a lot less. We've had the Lysne I, Lysne II and Traavik Committee. What the government has shown is investigative power, not executive power, as Erna Solberg promised before the 2013 elections. She didn't keep that promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e590	Serious natural events are increasingly common throughout the country. It's about both extreme weather and other. It is very important that municipalities have resources related to how to deal with these kinds of events and how to prevent and correct them. We also see that county officials should have an increasingly important role to play in following up the social security and preparedness work of municipalities and in ensuring the quality of the work done – not quality assurance of which professional letters or training each has, but quality assurance that the work is done in a proper way. It is the most important thing – not that the county should go through all the CVs in all the municipalities of the country and check that they have the right education, etc. Serious crime is one of the greatest challenges we have. We see that crime goes down, but serious crime is becoming increasingly serious. As far as ICT crime is concerned, it is also shown here that it is about how we should have resources and a centre that follows up serious ICT crime in our country. It's not just about how you apply online, but about the actual events that happen, about the debate we had earlier in this area. There have been serious warnings from the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness that indicate that so much of the money has been cut that several of the activities of the DSB have to be stopped. I also think that is a serious incident. The Harek Rivers are talking about Homeland. Today, Home Security is a major contributor to social security work related to many natural events around our country. If we get a big fire in our country – out in one of the islands or in another area – then it's like the defense, for example. cannot stand still by helicopter to extinguish the fire? I think it has to be seen that kind of resources in their entirety and not isolated separately. I think that's very important. The desire to establish a civil defence on Svalbard is also not feasible on the basis of the appropriations and signals received. It is possible that assistance for firefighting with helicopters in local rescue services may have to be cut. I think that is also serious. We see that today there is a greater and greater need for that kind of assistance, both civil and perhaps also from the Defense if the fires are large. In particular, in the last two years there have been serious warnings from the National Audit Office that the government is not adequately responding to its responsibilities in terms of preparedness. This is also one of the major challenges facing us in the future, and it is important that the Minister of Justice takes it seriously so that we do not receive new reports from the National Audit Office, which show both a lack of action and a lack of willingness to implement the policy adopted by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e607	I would like to respond to some of the things that the representative of the Republic of Elves takes up. He goes quite far in saying that it wouldn't be possible to build a national emergency centre on Alnabru. But yes, they admit that the government itself wrote it in the budget proposal that was put forward in the autumn of 2014. Rivers are also busy that Statsbygg made a calculation error in 2012–2013. Yes, he is, unfortunately, right. But after this, the Right-front Party government found that it would be possible to fit a National Emergency Response Centre in Alnabru. I also recommend that the representative of Elvenes read the KS1 report from Dovre and TØI, where Alnabru was discussed as one of three possible places to build this National Emergency Response Centre – i.e. the representative of Elvenes is his own government and the trade union disagrees with him. I record that one continues to ignore the sober, objectively detectable fact: One could build on Alnabru, but chose not to do so. It's an honest thing, but then you have to argue better for it, and don't try to throw blues at people like the Right Party and the Advance Party have done so far in this case. The representative of the Rivers is also busy when it involves the purchase of police helicopters and the payment for the construction of the emergency centre, that this government follows the cash principle – it should in a way just be lacking that not one did it. But now, for four years in full seriousness in this Chamber from the Right and the Progress Party's side, one has gone up on this pulpit and claimed that Halden prison was not built by Stoltenberg II, it was built by Bondevik, because the decision was taken by Bondevik even if all the money for the building was given under Stoltenberg II. So they have insisted infernally that there was actually no building under Stoltenberg II, despite the fact that the money for construction was given back then. Now, on the other hand, the representative of Rivers and Right will learn the Stortinget about the cash principle. It only shows how these parties have behaved in a non-principle and incoherent way in these debates. By the way, we're going to learn more about the interaction between the PST and the E service – we're already allowed to enjoy it right now – we're going to get back to it when it comes to dealing with it. But in this case, we see that the big moves to bet on social security and preparedness are missing, that the money for it is missing, that the progress for it is missing, and that the Right and the Advance Party promise in this field and the actions they have actually taken while they are in government, that is, not related.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e624	The representative of Haarek Rivers has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e630	I have to say, it is political risk sport of the Workers' Party to attack this government for failure in the field of emergency policy when such a crushing verdict against itself after its own watch in eight years. The emergency centre is being built. This government has decided that the Emergency Response Centre should be built on Taraldrud. This was one of the most important follow-up points in the Gjørv Commission, and this delivers the government. There's no reason to build this in Groruddalen. There are professional objections to it, including: noise issues. To the representative Asphjell: Yes, HV is involved in extinguishing fires, but you don't need a uniformed, armed HV to participate in extinguishing fires. Then HV has been transferred to other tasks. Then HV is no longer a military department. And I thank you again for the clarification: HV will no longer be a defense branch, but will be part of a civil fire extinguisher.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e639	I think they're a little strange, part of the claims that come from the opposition during this debate. Several of the claims made are actually directly incorrect. When it is claimed that police district staff have fallen, it is directly wrong. The status at present, under this government, is that by April we have increased the staffing of the police and officers' seats by around 1 800 new year's work. At the end of this year there will be a place between 2000 and 2 500 new positions in the police, a result of this government's policy. If you have not received it, all new posts are now given priority in the districts. So the districts now get the increments. There's a little bit of an interesting discussion going on about the emergency centre. Let me put it this way: when it comes to Taraldrud, we're on the path. We're where we're going to be. We're going to realize it within diet, within time, within plan, and it's going to be a very good emergency centre. It would not have been if Alna had been taken into account and – let's say – the poor work that the previous government had done, which, if it had been realised, had actually resulted in a worse emergency centre with smaller areas and more conflicts, simply a worse solution. There was a reason why you chose a different solution from what the previous government provided. If you are very busy discussing who builds and who decides, we can at least establish, with regard to all the intentions of the National Emergency Centre, that it is both adopted and built under this government. When it comes to object protection, I think things are going a long way. Yes, it has been repeatedly demonstrated in connection with the findings made in 2015 that it was not good enough. It was serious and had to be handled. Feedback through hearings and through the public vocabulary is precisely that it has been preserved. We have largely addressed the challenges identified in the National Audit Office's report. Arguing with old reports from years back in time is something I see that the Workers' Party is doing in many contexts. But then you might want to update what the real situation is today. Then I think it's strange that you've redefined the defence task from the Workers' Party. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e652	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e657	We are approaching the end of the debate, and there have been some points of view, and to some extent claims, which I would like to comment on. I limit myself to talking about cybersecurity. The representatives of the Workers' Party clearly believe that comments and proposals in this matter in such an important area as cybersecurity itself are the basis for decision-making by the Stortinget, and that we should therefore adopt it because the Workers' Party has promoted it. No, it's not good enough for us to take such an important position on such important issues solely on the basis of the comments of the Workers' Party. Why not? Nothing in history shows that the Workers' Party has something to point to. On their guard, the efforts of society and the government in the area of social security and police were completely shattered by two important reports: the Yorv Commission and the police analysis. Why should we then take what the Workers' Party says and write in this case as a basis for decision? No, we need to get a broad assessment, as it is in the Storing Communication and as the Council of State and several have explained. We have to get a complete discussion. I just point out that, in parallel with this discussion, a special body study has been presented on how we can coordinate efforts in society and society's competence against serious and new crime. And it's not about creating new special centers, but about pooling skills, bringing together efforts and strengthening efforts. It may be that things proposed here from the Labour Party are good suggestions. But these are loose proposals. We don't have a basis for evaluating them in a larger context, and we need to look at that in more detail. Then I want to remind the representatives of the Workers' Party that in their reign, under the red-green, there were four departments responsible for cybersecurity. It was only when a few months of the last period of government were left that one found out – and that was of course the only thing right; one should have done it a long time ago – that this was to be gathered in one place, in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Our government has done a lot in this area. So I attend with great interest the message that has been registered for Storting's treatment in this very area. It becomes important and is a completely necessary discussion, and it becomes a quality-proof and comprehensive discussion with a good decision-making basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e670	This is going to be my last post. It's now six years since July 22, 2011. This government has been on guard for four years. The National Audit Office’s report related to social security and preparedness work, and not least the follow-up to the Gjørv Commission’s report, is not an easy reading, to say the least. There have been questions about what has happened on various guards, but now at least this government has been sitting for four years. Among other things, we have object protection. I would like to refer to a remark in the setting, from the Workers' Party and the Centre, that NTNU wants to put in place a safety centre for materials and structures exposed to extreme loads. Now we're going to invest in a new government quarter. Having a center that looks at how building object protection should be, in order to have knowledge of tomorrow's challenges, must be one of the most important things. I am amazed that the position does not want to support such a remark in order to secure and secure the construction of the future against any new objectives related to terrorism, etc. I'd say that's weird. Back to digital vulnerability and ICT. Norway is one of the world's most digitised societies, and it also presents us with great challenges. We have been shown how vulnerable we are, both as a nation and not least as a world society. What initiatives has the government taken so far? There is a very limited mention in this big message. We have heard that the government will present a new big message during 2017 – i.e. perhaps after the Greatness has split up — which will not be dealt with during this period, and which this growing up cannot address, on one of the greatest challenges that have been described in our society for many, many months now. It is announced that it will be presented this year, as I said, but it is too small and too late when it has not arrived before, not least in connection with this message. It is important that we look at the importance of the security perspective on cybersecurity in acquisitions, etc. We have proposed this, but I will not refer them now in this article. Back to Defense: It's allowed to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. It's not about either – or whether the Civil Defense, the Home Guard and others in the Defense are supposed to carry weapons, contribute to fire, etc. They've been doing this for many, many years. There are questions about how, in a general emergency expression, we are going to make sure that the total resources find each other. It also pointed out that the Yurv Commission: how can the total resources find each other and make the best possible use of each other, so that we ensure the best possible security for the inhabitants of our country, and not least for the institutions around which they are responsible for securing? Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur both for dealing with the matter and not least for the debate on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e685	The representative of Hadia Tajik has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e690	After July 22nd, we said that this should not turn a political coin on. Now we hear the representative Werp from the Right saying that one cannot listen to the Workers' Party on emergency issues because of July 22. Then he's completely in line with his co-representative from the previous ageing period, André Oktay Dahl, who thought that July 22 wouldn't happen if Right had been in government. This is the Emergency Policy of the Right – four years in debt to others, four years in need of implementation in key areas of Norwegian social security and preparedness. The Labour Party is clear, we are forward, we have new proposals, among others. We would like some of the defence's capabilities to be dimensioned also in terms of civil needs. We refer to our proposals in the treatment of this big business message about ICT and cyber. The proposal for a centre against ICT crime is otherwise distributed and proposed by a government-designated selection, so that it could be accepted, as opposed to what Werp says – that one does not have enough knowledge and information about it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e697	We are still getting new angles in the debate, and that is quite right. This is an important theme, and we are approaching election campaigns. It is also important that we have something in common when discussing such an important topic as social security and preparedness. The Labour Party has made it one of its main points in this debate that we do not support their proposal for a cybercrime centre. We are criticised for not supporting it because it is suggested by anyone else. I have great respect for the CCIS at Gjøvik, in the president's home state, which is doing a brilliant job. But with regard to the way from there, to what the Labour Party says, that this is the only answer, that it almost testifies to irresponsibleness that they do not support their proposals, I say: No, the Workers' Party's proposal itself is not a basis for decision-making. There's an overall big message, which we're coming back to, from the government that sees this in a larger context. This is important. Then you try to make political coins that it's a link to the Gjørv Commission's report. Yeah, maybe. What is stated in the Gjørv Commission’s report is at least crystal clear and clear – that the authorities have failed in their preparedness for society. What's in the police analysis is crystal clear – that after eight years and a red-green government had not managed to organize the police so that it could meet neither then nor tomorrow's crime. That's what this is all about. At least we have to try to find a common platform for what we can do that works. Then, sadly, the world is more complicated than the Workers' Party can define it itself and stand in a position – they think – where they can criticize everyone else because they do not support their proposals. Had it been so simple, it might have been a lot easier and safer in the world, but the world is unfortunately much more complicated than the Workers' Party believes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e706	Looking at the very end of the big message, Annex 2, the follow-up has been listed after 22 July – all the measures the government has implemented, which it is in the process of implementing, and of course also where some of the points are in continuous work. What you see there is that you've followed the 22nd July Commission to the greatest extent. Most of the lessons have been learned and followed up on the experiences that took place after July 22. That is why I think it is important to allow it to be a purely political debate, even if it is tempting when it is an election campaign. It is a fact that preparedness has improved significantly during this government. It is indisputable, simply through the use of resources, the prioritisation of the police, manning, planning, strengthening the PST, strengthening the response force, decisions on new police helicopters, things that come in the future, a response centre, where we are on the way – in very many areas today the state is far better than it was before. It was just supposed to be missing, because the situation in 2011 was in no way good enough. What I think, if we're going to be a little bit rusty about each other, is that we can agree that we as a society have learned after July 22nd, and that it's a continuous work that's by no means completed. More needs to be done. But from there to present it as that the preparedness is poor, or that there are major deficiencies, I will distance myself from. There's been a lot of work done, yes, there's a lot left, but we're in the process of delivering on it. Then I think it's a little too easy to use the Riksrevision report on the state of object protection, which is an important but small part of the preparedness, as a basis for somehow pushing it away and saying that the preparedness is not good enough. When it is also known that the government has dealt with the challenges raised by the Riksrevision, it is going to be double wrong. Preparedness in Norway is good. We're in the process of getting it even better. And just what you see in the follow-up after July 22 should be a good indication of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e717	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e733	I thank the Committee for constructive cooperation on this matter, and it is a unanimous committee that is presenting the matter to the European Parliament today. This is a proposition from the government in which we consent to the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention of 11 May 2011 on the Prevention and Control of Violence against Women and Violence in Close Relations, referred to as the Istanbul Convention. The purpose of this Convention is to prevent and combat all forms of violence against women and violence in close relations, to protect the rights of women who are subject to such abuses and to promote national and international cooperation against abuse. The Convention shall promote equality between women and men and contribute to the elimination of discrimination against women. In order to ensure the effective implementation of the provisions of the Convention, the Convention provides for the establishment of a separate monitoring mechanism. Norway signed this Convention in July 2011. With the proposal, Norway undertakes to comply with the provisions of the Convention by international law. Several of the provisions of the Convention oblige the Parties to ensure that certain offences are punishable. At the time of signature, it was considered that Norwegian law mainly fulfilled these obligations, but that some legislative changes might be necessary. These changes were implemented in the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedures Act in 2016 and resulted in a ban on persecution of persons – more specifically stalking – and preparation for forced marriage. The legislative changes that have been implemented mean that Norwegian law fully complies with the obligations of the Convention. This Convention is important, as it includes a comprehensive regulatory framework to prevent and combat violence against women and violence in close relations. The Convention imposes stricter requirements on criminal prosecution, the adaptation of investigations and the procedural law on violence against women than does the other legal instruments. Norway will be at the forefront of the fight against violence and violence against women. With the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, we are sending out important commitments to prevent violence and abuse against women. The ratification of the Convention is a symbol of the seriousness of Norway’s commitment to women subjected to violence and abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e756	I am pleased that the Stortinget today agrees to the Norwegian ratification of the Istanbul Convention. The Convention concerns the prevention and combating of violence against women and violence in close relations. It defines a number of acts that the parties are obliged to criminalise and sets out requirements for investigation, prosecution and procedural law. The principles of offering treatment or other measures to persons who commit violence against women also give rise to new obligations. In addition, the Commission shall contribute to the fight against coerciveness and to the fight against gender mutilation. It is also an important part of the Convention. As mentioned in the Proposition, it is important that Norway supports the fight against violence against women and violence in close relations. Norway has already acceded to the UN Convention on the Rights of Women. Under the European Convention on Human Rights, we also have an obligation to protect vulnerable groups from violence. The Istanbul Convention further develops and complements the obligations of those Conventions. It is an important objective of the government to strengthen the fight against violence in close relations and sexualised violence against women, and Norwegian accession to the Convention will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e767	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e783	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to three lines with replies to the main speakers of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e794	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a very good cooperation. This is a historic day. Today, the Storting will decide to wind up the 200-year-old jury scheme. All parties in the Judicial Committee support this, except the Center Party, and this is a direct follow-up to a proposal from the Christian People's Party to wind up the jury system. I'm going to do something for the plural. It's serious to judge someone to prison. It is serious and important that the court takes as proper decisions as advice; it is fundamental to all its legal certainty. We all know about the quote that it is better that ten perpetrators go free than that one innocent must suffer, by William Blackstone, an English lawyer from the 1700s. Either you're alone in it or you're not, it's serious to judge someone who's innocent. At the same time, it is serious when someone who has committed serious criminal acts goes free, when insults are not trusted, or one is unable to solve serious killings. We all want a fair trial system in this room, and we have a good justice system in Norway today, but we have a jury system that has its clear weaknesses, and I'm happy to correct them in today's decision. The cases that go before the jury have a penalty framework of six years. Today, the jury’s playwrights shall decide the issue of debt alone, with anonymous voting and without justification. It is serious if there is a conflict with your decision. But this isn't science. The things that go for our legal system are complex and have great consequences for people's lives. Professionals — and laymen — have a serious task on behalf of society. The jury system has been under debate for a long time, and we all know about the NOU Jury Committee, when true, the jury selection report, which is also the basis of the proposition. There the jury selects that one must choose the form that is best suited to ensure proper decisions in criminal matters. Our courts depend on people's trust, a concern closely related to the principle of publicity in justice. The size will today be in favour of the form recommended by the co-judicial fraction in the jury selection, i.e. a composition of five laymen and two tradesmen. In the view of the Labour Party, it is not obvious that this is the very best scheme. We believe – and also in our remarks – that we see good arguments for four plus three. Nevertheless, we believe that the system of five laymen and two tradesmen is the best way to reconcile the concerns of the basic layman element and the total size of the court, and that is how I feel that the majority in the committee is. This is a compromise between the extremities. The Committee's plurality believes that the proposal takes care of the layman's element, where laymen play an active part in the process and are in a plurality. I think there's an independent point in the matter that the laymen are going to take an active part in the process, and not like today where a largely 'after-resonate' after legal proceedings is going to consider the debt issue. It is important that the new scheme now provides the basis for the debt question. It's one of the great weaknesses of today's system. One may be judged or acquitted in the law of the law of the law today, without being entirely aware of why. It is also a problem with post-responsiveness that a voter is anonymous. The task of the Court of Justice is difficult and important. People's legal certainty and people's lives have great consequences and are influenced by the judges who get hit in the courts – at good and at bad. I will end by quoting Louis Holberg, who said in his Paris prologue: ‘No office is as difficult as Judge-Administrative. One must have head to grasp a cause, a ski resort to resemble one's Raison against another's, and finally reasonableness to resist temptations."
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e816	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e821	In this case, there are at least a couple of parties in the hall that are opposed to the arrangement that is going to be signed today, and that would have kept the jury. My question is this: we are all involved in, I believe, that it is important to introduce a foundation – that is important. In Denmark, however, they have managed both to maintain the jury system by changing it, introducing a foundation and at the same time have a process in which professionals and juries communicate in court, which means that a person is given a legal guidance that is not given in Norway. I think it would have been possible to look at schemes where one could have kept the jury and at the same time got something good out of it. Does the representative think it might have been up to us, or does he think it is okay that this has not been viewed by the government and the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e826	I think the work that the jury has done is very thorough and very good. I also mean that there are more weaknesses in the jury system than the representative from the Center Party points to. One of the main arguments, as well as the grounding and anonymous voting, is that in more than half of the electoral courts in the District Courts, which are appealed to the Lawyers' Courts, there is a free find. I mean, having a jury is a legal certainty problem. I believe that having a co-judicial right, as one has had in other matters – which is a process that the Norwegian judicial system knows well – has worked very well. We also believe that the experience of those with our co-judges in the district court is that interaction and cooperation with the professional judges work very well. So I really don't see the big legal certainty reason for not doing what we're doing today. I think it's good for legal certainty. In addition, it is a process that already works well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e831	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e836	I would like to start by thanking – and not only that, but also praise – the case rapporteur for very good treatment and good procedure in the committee in this important and good case. Being judged by their peers is a long and good tradition in a state of law. Also in Norway, we have had this principle that we are now debating, in place since 1887. Over the 130 years, the jury system as such and the principle of being judged by its peers have had a solid position in Norwegian society and in Norwegian courts. It is, of course, that we should take care of principles – those that are good and well-functioning – and measure them against the progress we see in society elsewhere. As we know, society is changing constantly, and in this context – affecting the jury system – today's weaknesses have increasingly arisen. This case is about caring for the principal, important and good aspects by being judged by their peers and measuring it against society's demands, which have changed over the 130 years since its adoption in its present form. As the rapporteur pointed out, it may be primarily the requirement for reasons and anonymous voting that challenge this in the light of the expectations of a court order today. In Norwegian District Courts and Lawyers' Courts, it is handled approximately. 15 000 cases per year. 300 of these are dealt with by law enforcement, i.e. a jury. There is probably no one in the jury committee – to which reference is made by the case rapporteur – who points out that the large volume of criminal proceedings, which is therefore dealt with by a court of law, is in itself a weakness. But as I said, the jury system has some weaknesses based on today's expectations in society. There are many important discussions just in this landscape and with this as a back cover. One of the most important discussions is the composition of co-judgment, how we can balance the position of trade unions with the principle of being judged by their peers. We land on the composition with five laymen and two tradesmen. It has, among other things, In the course of the process, it was pointed out that there is a vulnerability in this by having only two professionals. I refer to the comments and references to the Law of the Court of Justice, which allows for the suspension of the case if, for various reasons, there is admissibility on the part of the trade unions, possibly the appointment of an alternate member of the trade unions. But at least: balancing this in a way that makes the layman's entry so stronger, against what's the foremost option: four plus two, has been the decisive point for having a strong emphasis on the fact that the layman's principle is being passed into a new era.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e847	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e852	Thank you for a very good contribution from the representative, Werp. We're a few people. Werep himself refers to the vulnerability that can occur by choosing a form with two subjects. There is no doubt that the Labour Party will be as sloppy as the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are in their comments. We also know about the law of the courts, both § 15 and § 12. Paragraph 12 says that one can bring an alternate in great things, but as we see it, this may be a challenge in things that are not considered to be generous – if one understands. My question is whether Right may agree that it may still be vulnerable, despite these paragraphs, that one must follow closely, so that it does not lead to so many exposures that it does in some way go beyond the current parties, that it does not increase costs and delays, and that one will be willing to adjust along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e861	There is a significant and important question raised by the representative. Firstly, to the right, it was important to take care of the layman's entry as much as possible. We believe that it weighed the heavier when we landed at five plus two. I would also like to stress what is stated in the proposition – and which is also stated in the remarks – that the government will follow the matter and how this develops, not least the practical aspects of it, and come back to Stortinget if necessary. I'm going to think this might be the point you should closely follow: the possible vulnerability that lies in the composition of five laymen plus two tradesmen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e871	I bet I noticed something that Mr. Werp said. He stated that the reason why a scheme of five plus two was chosen instead of four plus three when it spelled out the composition of laymen and tradesmen, was that a would be a layman’s feature ‘as much as possible’. Then I think that a difference between one layman and another is not to keep a layman's post as much as possible. I could imagine that Werp could say a little more about – and perhaps problematize – the composition of the new scheme. We have an arrangement of three plus four, which is said to work well in practice. So the government party and the Christian People's Party come with a system of five plus two. It's supposed to be so amazingly revolutionary that one has one extra layman, one thinks that there's kind of the big difference between the jury system on one side and the new system on the other - or could it have been possible to imagine a system where one had an even bigger layman's post.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e878	The starting point is today's arrangement, with ten laymen and zero tradesmen. Here, almost all possible combinations of numbers have been discussed, where maybe four plus three, as the representative asks, can represent another extreme in that discussion. That's why it's important from our point of view that there's a significant majority in co-judgment from the layman's side, and greater, of course, than three plus four. This is about more than mathematics. This is about making a principle that has been important for Norway as a legal state and that has been important as a basis for very many legal cases and for understanding the Norwegian legal system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e885	I thank you for the reply from the representative. I hear what's being said. At the same time, it is quite possible to see that one of the most serious criminal cases, where one risks more than six years in prison, would still have a system that had distinguished itself even more from the treatment in the other lawsuits. And then there's not one layman to or from – I think – the big difference if one shows that one really takes the layman principle seriously. One could do it in other ways. What I could think of is whether the economy has been the reason one has chosen the five plus two system and not, for example, the five plus two system. three plus six, or if there's a principle reason why one has chosen five plus two.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e894	I'm not going to conceal that there are economic calculations in the proposition, but it hasn't been crucial for this conclusion. It has been the balance – on the one hand, to make a clear layman’s appearance in a court-martial. So it's discussed in the proposition and in the notes: are we going to have a system of different compositions of co-judgment? It also has a disadvantage in that it complicates court proceedings and judgment in advance. We have to have a system that takes care of the most important thing about the layman's post, as I believe we have done with what is in the case – to get a good trial where we also have a professional report in court, with weight, but which does not have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e901	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e906	The jury system is over-mature for reform. The 2011 NOU unanimously concluded that the scheme should not be continued in its current form. The starting point has been that legal certainty needs to be strengthened. I am therefore pleased that there is now a broad consensus in the Committee, and also in the European Parliament, on the suspension of the jury system and the strengthening of legal certainty. For the Progress Party, it has been important that the children should be in a majority and that the decision should be justified. Today the jury does not justify the guilt question and the vote is anonymous. Both defendants, offended persons and any relatives have the right to know why the court has come to a particular conclusion. This is a practice in other cases before the Court, and now this guarantee of legal certainty is also introduced in cases previously before a jury. The Norwegian judicial State has good experience in the field of co-judgment, and a more or less unanimous professional community confirms this. Nor has it been unusual for the court to decide that the case should be re-examined by the court after the jury has given its opinion. It is a fundamental principle to justify the decisions of the authorities. The most serious criminal cases are today decided by a jury without any need to justify the issue of guilt. Both defendants and victims have a legitimate need to know why the court has taken a decision on the blame in a serious criminal case. Paradoxically, there are clear demands and guidelines for reasons in most criminal cases, but also in ordinary individual cases in public administration. The Administrative Act is clear that it is illegal to adopt individual decisions without justification. Criminal proceedings are also, as I said, normally well founded in the judgments. The jury is only involved in the most serious criminal proceedings under the law of the law of the law of the law of the law and shall be placed in the law of the law of the court of the court of law in the event of an appeal against the judgment of the evidence under the charge of guilt. However, this only occurs in cases where the crime can lead to imprisonment for more than six years. It has been very unfortunate for legal certainty that the requirement for reasons has been the worst in the most serious cases. I'm glad that a broad majority on the Stortinget today is straightening out in this. It's been a long process. The jury system has existed in Norway since 1887, and there has been strong criticism of the lack of legal certainty caused by today’s regime. I would like to point out that in January 2009, the Belgian authorities were sentenced by the European Court of Human Rights to unfair legal proceedings against a Belgian citizen. The judgment was invalid, according to the human rights court, because he was not given any justification for the jury's decision. The legal system in Belgium is quite similar to the Norwegian one, and today’s system has therefore been completely at the limit of what can be seen is proper in terms of human rights. You should and must have a right to know why you're convicted, as we see it. The Progress Party wants a legal system with good and secure guarantees of legal certainty, clear grounds for adjudicated judges and not least a majority of ordinary people among the judges. Every year some 15 000 criminal cases are dealt with by courts of law and tribunals, while only about 15 000 cases are dealt with. 300 jurors a year. It is inappropriate to maintain a special regime for a small minority of criminal cases, especially where this leads to a deterioration in legal certainty. An extension of the co-judicial regime, which ensures a clear obscurity of toys, will be an important reform in order to improve legal certainty in Norwegian courts. Although the criticism of the lack of legal certainty in the jury cases has been present for a long time, there has unfortunately been little willingness to solve the problem among previous governments and magnification. We are at least pleased that we are now getting a broad majority on the Stortinget that is gathering behind the new system. It is on the basis of the agreement of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party before the Committee's proceedings, and then we have also had good cooperation with the Labour Party in the Committee's proceedings and then create a broad majority behind this solution that we have presented, and which together shows the power to act in order to find a solution to an acute problem in Norwegian law. It's a historic day with what you're doing in Stortinget. The fact that we are now changing a system that has been in 130 years doesn't necessarily mean that the new system will last 130 years before any corrections are made. I am also pleased that we have comments from several people who show that there are things here the government should follow closely and possibly come back to Stortinget at a later date, if you think that there are some minor adjustments that need to be made. However, the Progress Party believes that today we have a good system to ensure legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e927	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e932	We are left with a few things, but when we first add up to a string change, we get the value. The evening post said in a leader in 2014 that the jury scheme was going to survive this big period too, because the parties that were to preserve the order were not going to turn around. The party of progress has previously been to preserve the jury system, but turned around during this period, and now we have multiples. I agree with the representative, Leirstein, that it is a day to rejoice. So we often get to the right that the reason for not having a jury is that we lack a foundation. I agree. But there's a lot of other issues as well, so I wonder if the representative Leirstein could figure out a little bit about which other main reasons the Progress Party came up with when they changed their positions and became a few with many others here to remove the jury order?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e941	I believe that in my post I have shown several good reasons, but first of all it is with reason that has been important. As the Centre Party also pointed out in a line change, it could have been introduced to a large extent without scrapping the jury system. But when we've looked at how the jury works, that's something you only have in a few of the cases, there's a good reason in itself to have to look at a new solution. Today, we have good experience in the field of court-martials. I myself have served 12 years as a layman in the moss court of law and have experienced absolutely how a court of law works at the district level. No one in the trade unions believes that it works badly – on the contrary – and then the Progress Party believes that this will also work well at the next level, namely the Lawyers' Rights. So the sum total we think this is going to be a good order, both because we're getting a claim for reasons, and because we're now getting a better combination with a co-judgment versus a jury.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e948	Just one short question: The representative Leirstein said that the jury system is a system one has only in a few of the cases, and that in itself it is an argument, as he himself said, against removing the scheme. I want to remind you that this system, five plus two, also becomes a system that one only has in a few of the cases, exactly the same number of cases that one has had a jury in before, because it's in the cases it's going to apply, if I understand it correctly. I just want to right if that argument is equally valid after he has heard this comment from the representative Klinge as it was when he stood there and said it himself, or if he can find a basis for possibly having bigger laymen's posts. As I've seen it, the Progress Party, in the same way as the Center Party, has been busy with the playwright's play, and that the jury has just had a foundation in that there are ten playwrights here. Wouldn't it make sense to have a system that had an even bigger layman's post than what's now being introduced, five plus two?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e953	I'm a little unsure about the question, but I guess the question is whether or not you are. have a greater right to co-determination — that is to say, with a larger number of toys — if you are first to have a right to co-determination. The answer is yes – you could have. Of course, you could have a system that someone has pointed out, with three professionals and six toy players. But we chose to go into negotiations to make a compromise on this system. For the Advancement Party, it was essential to get a good and wide impression with the playwright in a new court, and we believe that five plus two is the perfect model for it, as we see it. This means, among other things: that the toy people are more than twice as many as the tradesmen, and that is a significant feature of the toy people in the new co-judgment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e959	The representative uses the outline of the "perfect" scheme, or the composition. Of course, I'm a little bit in doubt if it's right to say it about a system that we don't yet know how it will work, at least when there are so many strong objections that come from more than just the five plus two compositions. I would like to think that Leirstein problemed this a little bit, because there's a reason to listen to professionals who say that the five plus two-order have aspects that are not lucky. When the Progress Party is also a party that has been so busy with the play, I would have believed that they could have both listened to the objections and at the same time perhaps looked at schemes that had led to a larger layman's appearance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e964	If we were to listen to all the professionals in this debate, probably the head of the evening post would have been right, that we had never managed to land anything. And of course, I now have to characterize this arrangement as perfect, since we're going in for it. That's why I used that name. But I also said in my post that it might be that along the way we will see that there may be a need for some minor adjustments, and then the Progress Party is not negative to that. We are therefore in favour of getting back in the way, if you see some challenges with the new system – if it was not as perfect as I said from this speaker – and perhaps make some minor adjustments. But sum total, the Progress Party believes that this is a good arrangement. There is now a good system on grounds, so that whoever is convicted, relatives and offended, etc. Now they're told, what's the reason for the court to take the decision you're making? I think that is a very important legal security system, and the new five plus two composition believes that the Progress Party largely, to a good extent, respects the layman principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e971	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e976	Today I have to say that I am proud, proud because the Storting adopts important changes to strengthen legal certainty. Today is a historic day, and I am very pleased that what started with a representative proposal from the Christian People's Party in the autumn of 2014, is now finally to be adopted in the form of the law. Now that we are repealing the jury system and introducing co-judicial law, we are helping to ensure that the individual accused or offended in a criminal case is informed of the reasons why he is being punished or acquitted. The jury scheme was introduced in 1887 and was a very important change in Norwegian criminal proceedings, and it was right in its time. The jury was supposed to ensure that the defendant was convicted by his peers. This principle stands firm today, even though it is no longer the jury who is to settle the very issue of guilt. The system now in place ensures a large majority of co-judges by the fact that five out of seven judges are laity judges. The Lekman element is still strongly in Norwegian criminal proceedings. On the other hand, other elements of the rationale for the implementation of the jury system are no longer of the same relevance. Today, a jury is being set up in the most serious criminal cases of law enforcement, such as killing, morality and serious drugs. According to the opinion of the Jury Committee, there are approximately 15 000 criminal cases per year for co-judicial purposes, while only 300 are decided by a jury. So the jury is used in a large minority of all criminal cases dealt with by the courts. The jury only settles the guilt question by anonymous voting and without justification. The jury's verdict may be set aside by officers in the Law of Lawyers. The whole matter is then re-examined with the right of co-decision. The court has thus acted as the guarantor of legal certainty today. The jury has been under debate for a long time, and although there has been a majority on the Grand Duchy to suspend the scheme for a long time, for various reasons it has not been. It is therefore gratifying that, in the course of a period of time, we have managed to reconcile the majority, so that legal certainty can be strengthened. The Court of Justice shall give judgment in a proper and fair manner following an open, fair and effective procedure and, by introducing co-judicial jurisdiction in the most serious criminal proceedings, the Court must now give reasons for all its decisions. It will help to ensure that the decision can be verified on the correct basis, whether the evidence has been properly assessed and whether the legal rules have been correctly applied. In cases dealt with by the jury, there is a reasoned judgment from the open-voting tribunal, while the appeal procedure in the court may end with an unfounded and anonymous recognition of the guilt issue. In my view, this clearly weakens legal certainty and advocates that the jury should be replaced by co-judgment. It is a guarantee of legal certainty that the reasons are correct, precise and complete. When the Christian People's Party proposed to abolish the jury system and introduce co-judgment, it was important to ensure that the grounds should be written as part of the process and not after the issue of whether the defendant is guilty or not is settled. In my view, it is a prerequisite to arrive at a well-considered and well-founded decision that we are working on the rationale when we are going to make a decision. And if we're going to make sure this, it's absolutely vital that those who have made the decision are involved in writing it. It has been claimed that the introduction of co-judicial law and the suspension of the jury system will be overrun by laypeople, but the fact is that there is no empirical basis for asserting this. On the other hand, there is research to show that jury members experience being overrun by other jury members. In addition, co-legislative law gives the children the opportunity to influence the thinking and judgements of the disciplines. The layman element is therefore reinforced by co-judicial law. Today, when we decide to introduce co-judgment, a well-known and already incorporated system is introduced. It will have a socio-economic advantage, and I am pleased that the savings resulting from the introduction of co-judgment will benefit the courts. The introduction of co-judgment with a strong feature of co-judgments will help to strengthen legal certainty. It is good for the person who is charged with criminal proceedings, to know why you are convicted or not. It is good for the individual offended or relatives to know what is the cause of punishment or acquittal. In addition, it is good for society as a whole. Transparency and transparency are an important principle that needs to be protected. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee and, in particular, the Right Party and the Advance Party, with which we agreed before the proposal came forward, and congratulate the Labour Party for a good cooperation within the Committee – and congratulate it. Today, legal certainty has prevailed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1004	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1009	Both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are busy working towards election. We know, unfortunately, that it's going to be a little bit to be judged for selection, because the evidence is very demanding. The Advocate-General has been very clear to us in the Committee on Legal Affairs that half of those who are convicted of being tried in the District Court are freed by the jury of the Lawyers' Court. Is the representative of the Christian People's Party in agreement with me that there is also a relevant element with regard to the position of winding up the jury?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1014	I agree that there is a relevant point that one must include in the discussion, but it has not been crucial for my part. I would also like to stress, for example: when there was debate, it was well last year, around the so-called Hemsedal case, that there was just a jury case set aside, and that was carried out in a court of law. I think there's going to be discussions about confessions no matter what system you have, but for the Christian People's Party, it was the other elements that I was in on in my post, which was the main reason why we were going to do this. I don't have much reason to believe that the verdicts made by the jury have been wrong, but in any case it's an interesting observation that there are so many cases that are converted after trial in the District Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1021	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1026	The jury has long traditions in Norway. Together with other parts of our legal system, the system of upholding an important rule of law. The jury is used in appeals in the most serious criminal cases. The jury should be a popular corrective to the professional judges and ensure that people are judged or freed by their peers. The jury members should be as unaffected as possible by the professional judges and should not experience the pressure to vote either way or the other. The central party believes that the jury order is a contribution to wrong sentences in the most serious criminal cases. This applies to about 300 cases a year. Although the system is resource-requiring, the Center Party believes it's worth having a special arrangement for the appeals of the criminal cases that have the highest penalties. The central party has a clear position in this matter, and it is to maintain the jury system and ensure the important principles it maintains. Therefore, the party does not have a position as to whether the jurisdiction replacing the jury arrangement should be 2+5, 3+4 or 2+7. I would point out, however, that the hearing authorities had different views on what would be the best arrangement of these, and that there was criticism of the scheme for which the majority of people are involved today. This is about the number of professional judges and the number of court-martials to be composed of in the appeals that have been dealt with by the jury until now. The Court administration did not give priority to hearing between schemes of 3+4 and 2+5. On the other hand, the judges' association strongly warned against having only two judges, and said that one should use the composition of common law that an already has in the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, i.e. three tradesmen and four laymen. The Association of Lawyers was in favour of a court of law of two tradesmen and seven laureates. This system thought they would prevent tradesmanship. Former leaders of the Bar Association of Lawyers are among others who in the media have been called upon to maintain the jury system. I would like to stress that this is an important matter, and that it means something about what decisions Stortinget makes today. I wish the government had found an alternative, when it comes to the composition of the new system, that several civil society organizations could have been involved. The centre party must find itself in a minority and in the fact that the jury system is being scrapped for the benefit of a new system. Of course, there are arguments both for maintaining the jury system and for creating a new system. When a jury is to be removed first, it is a pity that the new system will not be as good as it could have been. I hope it is carefully looked at how the new device actually works, and that changes will be made if it turns out it makes sense. When it comes to what may have been the biggest objection to the jury order – that the jury does not justify its decisions – it is worth considering whether this is a valid argument to get rid of the jury. I agree that it is important for both the conviction, the indictment and the relatives that there is a basis for appeals also in the most serious criminal cases. This is how I sympathize with many of the views that have been expressed today. I would like to stress the principle that the jury should be independent and not dominated by the professional judges. It is a democratic principle that people should be judged by their peers in the most serious criminal cases. This also has to do with the trust and legitimacy of the justice system, so these concerns must also weigh heavily. It has been made that it is impossible to hold on to a jury system and at the same time introduce the basis for the decisions. I don't think the government has made a good enough effort to find alternative solutions where both things are taken care of. One does not have to go far to find an option. Denmark has the basic legal framework for the jury, but has also been required to introduce a foundation. There they've kept the jury with some changes to the system, and they've put in place demands for the jury to justify its decision. While a strong doctor’s point avoids professional dominance, professionals are so involved in court proceedings in Denmark that it is possible that some experts and some jurors may agree to write a statement of reasons after the decision has been taken. The jury selection evaluated a similar scheme in Norway, but this scheme is not one of the alternatives that we are considering today. The centre party insists that the jury order should be in place, and I take this into account the submissions of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1054	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1061	My question is actually quite simple. I'm wondering what the representative thinks it makes sense to consider the debt issue afterwards and not running.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1067	The representative Klinge must almost ask the representative to explain his question a little better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1072	The representative blade must answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1077	Yes, but I have no better answer. I did not understand the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1082	Yes, I am sorry if I should have done this any longer, but I refer to some of what Klinge said in his own post. Today, the jury is rethinking and assessing the issue afterwards, but in the proposal that is currently under way, an assessment in interaction with professionals and playwrights while legal proceedings are under way. We have been told very clearly that both is a strength for legal certainty and makes sense – even in line with much of what the Ropstad said in its article. What I'm curious about is what the Center Party thinks makes sense that one should start discussing and evaluating after the trial has been, and not in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1089	Then I understand a little more what the representative Vågslid thought about. If you look at the criticism that came against the jury order – Wagslid is in on a part of it – then there are considerable objections, as I see it, as one must take seriously. However, it is also the case that the jury system – not only here in countries but also in other countries – works precisely because the jury sits together and takes thorough debates, discussions and assessments on the basis of what they have heard through legal proceedings, and finds out whether or not to judge. What I want to point out is that it is possible to improve the Norwegian jury system as it has been, as they are. have done so in Denmark, as I pointed out in my article. There is the fact that professionals and the jury are in fact in good contact and are able to resolve legal issues that may be important for the jury in order to pass a reasonable judgment or not. Then the jury and the professionals go together, and then the judge comes. That means I'm a system that we could look at. Unfortunately, the government has not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1100	I find it strange in the post of the representative Klinge that criticism is given to the government for the matter that has been put forward. So the thing you've been asking is something the Storting has ordered, so it would be very special if the government had put forward a completely different kind of case than the majority of the Storing has ordered. I guess there was also a basis for criticism. But what I'm really looking for is that I realize that the Center Party also sees that there are some weaknesses in today's jury order. In the last reply to the reply to the representative Lene Vågslid, the representative Klinge was very clear that there are improvements in today's system. When I read the setting, the Center Party suggests that you keep the day's order - dot. Why has the Centre not used this opportunity to present all its good amendments to improve the jury system?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1107	Of course we could have done that. What we've established is the principle that we want to keep the jury, and we've also stressed that the arrangements that the government has made with proposals and that are adopted in the hall today are not good enough groundwork, as we see it, and not well enough evaluated. When it comes to the alternatives that the Center Party would have created if we had made changes to the jury, we would have to have gone into it thoroughly. I mean that Denmark is a country that can be seen when it's the design of the jury there. What's special there is that they have basic laws that they're still going to have a jury, but at the same time they had to introduce a foundation. This made them think again about the way this is done, and there they have found a system that, in my view, seems to work well. But of course, we had to get closer to both that and other designs of juries around before we had to come up with suggestions on how we might have changed the jury.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1114	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1119	There are some things that have more historical suspense over them than others, and the thing that we've been doing today, it has. I believe that the majority of those who have spoken here today see it as a very positive historical sus -- I'm of a different opinion. The jury system was introduced in 1887, 130 years ago, by the Left, and the Left is still behind the principle that we should have a jury order in Norway. If we're going to begin a little superior, there's at least reason to enjoy something, and that's that the courts in Norway are renewing very high trust, more trust than any other state power -- probably more trust than most states that exist here in the world. One of the reasons for this is that one has a significant democratic anchor, with a high level of participation of ordinary people – doctors, as it is called – at different levels. One can always discuss where the balance is, and it's quite fair to discuss the jury order. There's an interesting discussion, there's a lot of arguments on both sides of this case. But the fact that representatives are going up on the pulpit today and make it sound like a strengthening of the layman's element by them today, I think I'm more special. It's quite obvious that one does the opposite. One can argue for it, but by going away from the jury to a co-judgment, a layman's element weakens, both in terms of the number of people, and in terms of who makes decisions. A lot of different arguments are being used here today. Some of them are good and well-known. I'm a little bit more skeptical. I found, for example: that it is a little alarming that the case spokespersons Vågslid – both in their main post and in repeated lines – continue to stress that it has apparently been proved that the jury is freeing up more in electoral cases than the cases do. Is it true that today's goal is to get more doomsdays? That's pretty interesting in that case. The goal must not be to get as many convictions as possible or to get as many free settlements as possible - the goal must be to get the most right court decisions. That it is so obvious that too many become liberal, interesting and not so much alarming. Having a right to co-opt has many advantages. But having a jury also has some special advantages that you don't get in a co-judgment. Firstly, doctors alone — not the professionals — decide on the issue of guilt. I think everyone who has been in a co-judgment knows that it's where the professionals are, willfully can be a good thing, but it can also lead to a certain control of the discussion and a pressure. Secondly, the jury shall not establish the rules of law and conduct criminal investigations, etc. What they do is they decide the question of guilt, in practice the question of evidence, after getting legal clearance. There is no legal environment to do. Then the question is, is there reasonable doubt about what are the facts, and is it going to lead to a conviction or not? So neither is the impression created by the fact that there is no reason, correct. It's clear that a reason for much of what's going on, from law enforcement to law enforcement, but the very question of evidence doesn't make any sense. You can probably discuss whether or not you should. I think there might be some sense in it, but it is also possible to solve it within today's system. It is still shown that the work of the jury committee is at the root of this. Yes, it does so far, but the jury selection was divided in the middle, five to five, in the question of whether one should continue to have a jury, or whether one should go to co-judgment – and there were good reasons for that. I also thought that those who wanted to continue the jury scheme in that selection had many good suggestions for improvement, which would be a better track to follow. The left will vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party today, and we will vote against the legislative changes proposed by the Committee. I think there might be a lot of sense in continuing to strengthen the jury system, but that's not what you're doing today. Today, a woman abolishes it, and it may be too, but to say that there is a strengthening of the layman element in the judiciary, I think I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1138	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1143	In my post and for several rounds in the reply card change, I have shown the Riksadvokat's review of the jury arrangement, and my question is whether the representative Rotevatn knows him, among other things. what the Riksadvokat is going through about the woman's vision of assault cases, and what I mentioned in my post. Does the representative know Rotevatn about this review? In this case, does the representative Rotevatn think that the review and the clear recordings we have received are unimportant?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1149	No, that doesn't mean the representative Rotevatn, and I don't think my post was so unsound that it should give the impression of the opposite. I am aware that both the Riksadvokat and many other actors in the judiciary have wanted a change. At the same time, there are many people who don't want it, especially the defense lawyers, who might also want to say something about what interests are at stake here. Again, the case spokesperson – implicitly – shows that she believes that there are too many who become acquitted, because of women’s vision or other things. There is something that you can certainly discuss, but when it becomes so clear that the goal – from the Labour Party’s side – of removing the jury is to get more convictions, I think it is alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1154	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Rotevatn, for a very good contribution. Initially, I would like to stress that the debate is about keeping the layman principle to a new stage, in my opinion, and taking care of the best of the principle as such, but adapting it to not least the requirements to justify the guilt issue as such. It has legal certainty qualities inherent in it, which are underlined by both the Supreme Court and international law. Today it is ensured that the judge is to try to interpret the jury’s decision on his own behalf and to draw on the so-called leading point in the case. The representative, Rotevatn, says that this, by justifying the issue of guilt, can be dealt with in today's order. Then I get a little curious about what the representative is doing, so that we can do this in a better way than what the Supreme Court has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1161	It's clear that one could put up with an arrangement where the jury gave reasons for its assessment of the evidence and its view of the guilt question. It is demanding – I am aware of it – but there have been a number of suggestions in the debate that could have said that one went in that direction. Please choose one then not to do. The representative, Mr. Werp, says once again that a stronger layman's principle. That's not what I'm talking about. One might say that a strengthens legal security, and one might think that having more professional judges inside the picture and not letting the jury decide the blame question strengthens legal certainty – it could be an argument for that. But what you do is you take out a number of the playwrights that are there today, which are not supposed to be there, and then introduce a professional judge who is going to be involved in making decisions. To say that it strengthens the principle of a layman, I did not think I was at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1168	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Rotevatn, for a very good report. I think it is important that in the discussion we also get the shades of the disadvantages of removing the jury order. At the same time, I would like to challenge the representative, Rotevatn, more specifically, for reasons. In my post, I was concerned that for us it has at least been very important that those who write the reason have also helped to find the conclusion, and that you don't just make up an opinion, and then someone has to write a reason out of it. We all know how it works. The Party Left and the representative Rotevatn are very concerned with openness, transparency, all of this, and as I said in my post: the jury was very right in its time, in 1887, but I think it is very right to remove it today in order to improve legal certainty. I agree that you do not necessarily strengthen the layman element, but take care of the layman element, so that it is still strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1175	I thought it was a little strange to say that it was quite right – when a jury introduced – that one should not have a foundation, but now it is all of a sudden completely wrong. It's the same principle that has doctors to base the whole way. As I said in my previous answer, I think that one could evaluate the arrangements where the jury reasoned, it could have absolutely done. I would consider that. But when said, it is probably also worth bringing the following: What does the jury do? Well, there's an assessment of evidence, whether there's any doubt that this has happened or not happened. The rule of law and the interpretation of it are of course grounds, and it is part of the interpretation of the law. But to drive and reason why a belief something is more or less likely, whether there is doubt or no doubt – yes, one might like to write it, I think it would have been a strength. However, the view of the rule of law is also extremely important — in the matter of appeals, etc. – and that will be a good reason. So I probably don't want to exaggerate this to be an insurmountable obstacle to having a system with a larger layman element than what you get with what the plural now wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1180	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1185	The discussion on whether or not to maintain the jury system has been going on for a long time. There have been public investigations in this area, and what seems to be a broad consensus is that the layman's entry in Norwegian courts should be strong. The question is whether one believes that it is best to maintain the jury system or whether one should create a court-martial. The criticism of maintaining the jury system in the Lawyers’ Court has focused on the lack of justification for the decision. SV shares the criticism that it has been justified. In the course of this debate, there has been a reference to a judgment in the European Court of Human Rights, which called for reasons of conviction. We, like the Left Party and the Center Party, believe that this could be improved within the current system by introducing an obligation to justify. As the representative from the Senterpartiet said, Denmark has a system that can also be assessed in Norway. SV wants to keep a strong layman's record in Norwegian courts, as we have in the jury system, while a co-jury warrants the layman's appearance, but has a smaller element of playwrights than the jury system. We also want to look at changes in selection and remuneration to ensure that the jury is broad and popularly composed – that there is a wider range of those sitting there than today. We also want to go in order for the jury to justify its position. This view is enshrined in the SV Party Programme, and we will therefore vote primarily for the proposal of the Centre Party, which involves maintaining the jury system. Subsidy, SV would like to support the Committee’s recommendation on the appearance of such a co-judgment – with five co-judgments and two tradesmen. It will provide a layman's post, while at the same time strengthening the legal competence. But I've also seen some of the recordings where you think there should be a larger number here – both to balance and to be less vulnerable, for example, to maturity. I have noticed the Riksadvokat's review of violence, on which the representative Awake! I think it's a serious concern that the layman's record in the judiciary can be a little bit more about popular opinion than about evidence, and it's serious. I now heard the representative Rotevatn answer whether it is okay to have an old-fashioned view of women and base it on his decisions. That's not it. It's evidence or not evidence, facts or not facts that should be on the ground. The measurement of penalties is, of course, a legal issue. I don't think we're going to be blind because the public opinion -- to say it like that -- has some influence on some of these issues, as the National Attorney pointed out, which cannot be accepted or are not in line with the justice of the victim and the perpetrator. It's not just about the victims, of course, this can also affect perpetrators. With regard to these issues too, good advice from professionals is important. We who have been co-judges know that it's usually good, but it's also the way that views that come out during those discussions may have more impact on vision than on evidence assessment, and I think that's what everyone agrees not to occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1196	I am pleased that the majority of the Judicial Committee supports the Government's proposal to replace the Jury system with a co-judicial system consisting of two tradesmen and five laymen. The issue of the suspension of the jury system is how to deal with the most serious criminal cases. A good criminal procedure should ensure the legal certainty of individuals, ensure the confidence of the people in the legal system and meet the needs of society for the effective conduct of criminal proceedings. Toyers’ involvement in criminal justice plays an important role in safeguarding all these considerations. Allowing representatives of the people to sit in the courts is part of democratic control of the judiciary. High professional quality is also essential for people's confidence in the courts and in legal certainty. With the proposal put forward by the government, we are creating a good balance between professionalism and public control. The jury has long traditions in the Norwegian judiciary, and it has served an important function. In recent years, however, the scheme has been subject to criticism, in particular because the jury provides no justification for its decisions. The jury was appointed on 21 May 2010. The committee would assess the way in which laymen and professionals should participate in criminal proceedings under the law. The selection made a split setting where half of the sample wanted to keep the jury scheme, while the other half wanted to replace it with a co-judgment. The fact that the jury committee was divided into its views on whether the jury should be retained shows how difficult a question this case is going to raise. When the government has now made a proposal to replace the jury system with a strengthened right of co-determination, I am sure that we have found a solution that will take care of the different interests in a good way. We propose that the cases currently dealt with by the jury be dealt with instead by a co-judgment consisting of two tradesmen and five laymen. Today, criminal proceedings that can give up to six years of imprisonment are being dealt with by a co-judicial court consisting of three tradesmen and four laymen. Compared with this, our proposal involves strengthening the participation of the toy industry. We therefore fulfil the condition laid down in Decision No. 621 for 2014-2015, repealing the jury system, which states that ‘the toy element remains strong’. Two judges and five co-judges, on the proposal, also become the composition of the court of law in handling appeals against the assessment of evidence under the guilt issue in cases that may lead to imprisonment for up to six years, and in dealing with appeals against the judgment on punishment or criminal law specific reaction to offences that may result in imprisonment for more than six years. This will also result in a more uniform system of criminal proceedings than today. The proposed scheme requires that the decision on the debt issue be given a thorough justification in all cases. I think that's particularly important. Furthermore, the scheme will make more efficient use of the resources of the courts and lead to savings in the costs of the courts. As the majority of the Committee would also point out, there are no indications that more than seven judges in total will make more correct decisions. Furthermore, I also agree with the majority of the Committee that the requirements for a qualified majority for conviction and the requirement that at least one expert vote in favour of an adverse decision of the accused provide sound assurance against wrong decisions. I have taken note of the views of the members of the Committee of the Workers' Party that the government should consider on an ongoing basis whether a solution should be opened with an enhanced right set up with three ordinary trade unionists. As it also follows from the Letter of Consultation of the Judicial Association, as set out in the Committee’s opinion, such a solution would imply a great and perhaps unmanageable right, and specific voting rules should also be laid down. In my view, it seems more appropriate to cultivate the scheme proposed by the government, and to use the system of commodity experts where necessary. However, we will follow up on how the scheme works in practice and, in this context, assess the need for rules on enhanced law and how the composition of two tradesmen and five other laymen works.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1224	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1229	Thank you for your input. Now, at the end, the council said a lot about what I was going to ask about. It is clear that we are some people in that there may be vulnerability around having two professional judges. § 12 – if I am not mistaken – is an opportunity to benefit from the proxy, and then we have the second paragraph that is about being able to expand if necessary. Does the council see, if one does not want to set an amplified right, a possibility to look at the one paragraph that says something that there are only in vast things one should be able to do? Should a person also be able to do that in ordinary matters if that is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1234	There is no right to impose the right of a member of the team in the form of additional judges who participate fully throughout the proceedings, as opposed to professionals, who only follow cases in the event of a default by another judge. If it turns out to be a need in the future, for example: be assessed in the context of a new criminal law. I do not in any way reject what is being addressed by the representative of Wagslid. It is important that all the aspects, which I also perceive as discussing the proposition, be taken care of. And as I also said in my post, our starting point is that of course we should follow this closely. But this is a historic day, and I think it's important decisions that are made here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1242	The jury has been set up to deal with appeals in the most serious criminal cases. The center party thinks, as has been said earlier here, that it's worth taking care of the jury system, and we could have helped assess ways of improving the system we have today. Unfortunately, the Stortinget has not received any government evaluations other than to abolish the scheme. The party of progress has been a warm defender of the jury for many years, but has changed its senses. Doesn't the Council of State think it would be worth looking at alternatives other than just scrapping the system – and also considering other schemes where one could retain the jury and at the same time introduce requirements for foundation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1247	You're allowed to change your mind. From the point of view of the Progress Party, I have always experienced – and that is my experience from the Stortinget – that the importance of ensuring the principle of teaching has been the main reason for the scepticism – insofar as a sound scepticism – against the winding up of the jury system. Now that you have come to the conclusion of what is quite agreed, and which gets a great deal of support from the Stortinget, a two and a five share, I think – and I feel quite sure – that we are doing the homework as an important function. You're to be judged by your peers. At the same time, there is no indication that a larger number will lead to more correct decisions. I think it's a good balance, and that's why the Progress Party has also joined this solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1252	As I said in my post, I see a lot of arguments to abolish the jury order. What surprises me is that several of the speakers — now also the Council of State in its speech — say that it is now doing something to strengthen the layman’s element. One thing to do is to assume that ten of the players will participate in five of the games. And instead of deciding the guilt question on their own, one of them has to have professional judges, who also have veto rights, because one has to have consent from both sides to judge. This can be argued for in a variety of ways. Several people today have said that it is the existing community that expresses itself in these jurors, and that one doesn't want to, etc. But I'm going to have to argue with that. What does the Council of State mean when he says that we should now strengthen the layman's element?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1259	I perceive that the layman element is being cared for. It has been an important premise for my own party, and I perceive that it has also been the wish of the Storting. When you leave the jury, you'll be able to have a good strength around the layman's element at the same time. Of course, you can discuss whether it is a strengthening or not. I think you take care of it, and then I think it's a good balance that's also reflected by the fact that there's a very broad majority in this room that is now adopting this. I think that's a reinforcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1264	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1271	Today is a historic day in the field of justice policy. A jury that has been discussing and moaning since 1887 will be terminated. That makes sense. The jury is heavy, and the jury is also doubtful about legal certainty, as a process tool. The jury is in many ways a survival from the fight against the government. The jury must be understood in the light of its time, but the time has run out of the jury. It is a paradox that in the courts of justice the criminal case is brought before a court of law, and the blame is justified, but when a case comes to the law of the law of the law of the law, the guilt question will not be justified, and the case is brought before a jury of ten laymen. The requirement for written justification has been expressed, in particular through international conventions. The jury has long since lost its role as a symbol for the People's Government and as a tool for further development. In 1887 the jury was understandable. The jury is in many ways Johan Sverdrup and Left's heartchild, and I understand the firm defense of the jury system by the representative Rotevatn. Saying yes or no to the issue of guilt does not hold up in our time, with demands for transparency in all areas of society. The Lekmann case is still well taken care of through a distribution of five laymen and two tradesmen. The winding-up of the jury also strengthens legal certainty, which is why it seems that the Storting agrees. It also seems that the left has an open ear for it. By strengthening legal certainty, we foster our rule of law, and we develop it further – and the rule of law is absolutely fundamental in our democracy. Once again, it is almost a pleasure to be allowed to take part in such a decision as a representative of the magistrate and a member of the Judicial Committee, and that it can be seen from the later annals that they were involved in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1286	It's not as often I can say what I'm saying now, but I'm fully behind what the representative Harek Rivers just said. This has been a good round. We're not quite finished yet, but the line change has been very good. I just want to be very clear that the basis for the majority in the committee, and now I see that Rotevatn has left the hall, is to improve the system – more legal certainty. I feel quite certain that even if we can discuss a little when it concerns the number of the new court, co-judgment is not discussed as a procedural form. He does not exist in the discussion. And there I thought that we in the Judicial Committee actually spent quite a lot of time, because it has been replaced since the Christian People's Party made its proposal. We've had a hearing on the case, we've met the Judge's Association and the Attorney's Association. We're talking to people from the north to the south. I believe that the basis for our decision to make today's decision is very good. There may be other motivations behind the points that come from the Left. I also thought that Karin Andersen, despite the fact that we are not some people in this case, had a very good post, because it is clear that it is worrying when the investigations into the Riksadvokat show that a very distorted or old-fashioned view of women can affect judges in the law of the team. I really think that everyone is a few if we think about it, because there is the representative Karin Andersen quite right. The jury shall not appear on its own personal statements. It shall consider the issue of guilt on the basis of evidence submitted in court. We will then have a much more legal certainty now, for the teachers will sit with the professionals – the teachers are in a number – and be active participants in the process. It is a strength for legal certainty, and it is a strength for discussion and assessment that one should do based on the evidence provided in the case. I would otherwise like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. It's a historic day. We're going to think about this. We're making a good decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1297	Let me start with a confession. I belong to those who have been a great supporter of the jury order for many, many years, although of course I have recognized that it has had its weaknesses. It has, among other things, have been due to a lack of reasons, in addition to the fact that it has been able to be set aside – and afterwards the case was run with an extended jurisdiction, if I do not remember completely wrong. But I think the debate today has been good. I think it's a historic decision that's being made. Nor should we forget that the jury has performed a function in Norwegian courts for many, many years. The reason why it's done that is because the Storting as a legislator has said that this is the best we have. We don't have anything better per day. That's why it's been allowed to last as long as it's actually done. I think that's a quality. In the same way, I think it is a quality that the Storting as a legislator today takes a new round with itself and goes through the function of the jury system and looks at weaknesses in it. You do that by replacing it with a co-judgment with two professionals and five laymen. That's good, and it's kind of a further development of the Norwegian rule of law. What makes me a little more concerned is whether the Storting should decide what attitude the toy should have. I perceive that the individual representatives here sometimes discuss that you have fellow judges who have wrong opinions. I thought that the discussion that is taking place in a co-judgment or in other contexts of the Norwegian court was given on the premises of the law and the legal text. But taking away people's attitudes because you've chosen the wrong people, at least I'll be careful. I thought it was part of the democratic anchoring in the selection of people to be co-judges. But as I said, fortunately, it's allowed to have different opinions, fortunately, and it's part of an active and dynamic democracy, which we have in Norway. With that I will join those who have been to the pulpit before and say that it is a good day. It is a fine day, and this will ensure legal certainty in at least as good a way as it has now been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1308	I'm just forced to stress that no one should take away anything from any of the grips, if they were good or bad. But as a member of the Judiciary Committee, I take the Riksadvokat's review of the jury system very seriously. That's what I'm basing on for what I'm saying. Sitting in a closed room with no mention of anonymous voting – taking it into account a debt issue that is not justified, when it turns out to be based on, among other things. Bad postures, where there's no evidence being evaluated, I think is a legal certainty problem. That's the basis. I'll stop there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1315	In principle, I agree with the rapporteur, of course. At the same time, I think that the legal approach – the lead for what is to be done in the room where the decision is to be taken – is the most important thing. So once again, I think you pick out your candidates to bemoan the function of co-judgment. It's participative, if I don't remember scratching, jerking mistakes, and then you assume that people have with them who you are, in there. Then you carry out the task of being a member of a co-judgment in the manner required by the legal text. Of course, it's the guilt question that's the key to guilt or not guilt.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1320	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1336	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines with up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1345	The most important thing about this matter, in the view of the rapporteur, is that we now have a basis for exchanging information between the PST and the E service. Cross-border terror and other threats to the Norwegian population are increasing in scope. In such a situation, we have to adapt to reality. The reports after 22 July have been clear that better interaction is important, including in the field of intelligence. The proposal provides that the Security Service of the police, PST, may provide information from the use of hidden coercive measures to the Intelligence Service if necessary for prevention or safety reasons. This is not an extended coercive helmet. The proposal deals with the possibility of sharing information that can already be obtained according to current rules. There is also no obligation for the PST to share this information. However, legislative changes will considerably simplify the process of necessary information sharing. Greater sharing of information between the PST and the E service is both desirable and important to prevent terrorism and other serious threats. The undersigned records that two additional proposals have been made in this case. If the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Centre are adopted, we will receive unnecessary red tape of Norwegian intelligence without strengthening legal certainty. The incorporation of the size into internal lines of responsibility without prior investigation could have unforeseen and unfortunate consequences. One of the proposals is to reduce the number of decision-makers to only two people. Should the PST not be able to share vital information with the E service if, for example, PST’s chief executive. are absent, or are absent with his Vice-Chairman? These will be the consequences of the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party and, in my view, will have fatal consequences in the worst case. To say that such red tape provides a guarantee of legal certainty is, at best, sought all the time that the chief PST is in any case the top responsibility for PST's operations. Under current legislation, there is already judicial control in obtaining information from the PST. The Labour Party and the Centre have also proposed a subsequent judicial review. Although the proposition does not intend to introduce any new methods, but only deals with information sharing, these two parties want a double check that violates Norwegian tradition and case law. Again, at least we perceive that this is an increased red tape without a legal certainty guarantee. Such red tape of our secret services is particularly unfortunate in an area where in the avoidance of terrorist attacks it can stand in minutes or seconds. I therefore have difficulties in understanding the need for these interventions promoted by the minority in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1366	This is an important matter. There is a need to clarify the basis for collaboration and information flows between PST and E, especially with a composite threat image that we see now. It is stated in the Act on Intelligence Section 4: ‘The follow-up service shall not monitor or otherwise obtain information on Norwegian natural or legal persons in the Norwegian territory.’;» This does not change anything in the matter we have to deal with today, but the E-service can, with the changes that are being processed, have access to information that has been obtained in a hidden way in Norwegian soil about Norwegian citizens, and information about innocent third parties, which is part of the excess information they receive. The working party is for enhanced cooperation between PST and E. At the same time, I think that this proposition is characterized by weak craftsmanship in some areas, and I would like to mention three of them in particular. First of all, in his letter of hearing, the National Attorney pointed out the need to limit the number of people who at any time have the authority to supply information from PST to E, i.e. limit who has the competence to decide what is necessary. This rejects the plurality of the Committee – Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People’s Party – on the grounds that the Judicial Committee does not necessarily know how the PST is organised or the internal conditions there. No well, but we may have the assurance that the Ministry of Justice will at least know that. To this the majority says that the Ministry of Justice has not met the need for that kind of delimitation. It's a clear admission from the majority that the preliminary work that should have been done by the Minister of Justice has not been done. They believe that the Minister of Justice has not provided the facts that will enable one to make a proper decision on the recommendations of the National Attorney General. We agree with the plurality that this should have been done by the Minister of Justice. We suggest that the authority of the PST be limited in line with the recommendation of the National Attorney, and would like to accept a review of it. Secondly, the majority opposes a subsequent judicial review of the disclosure of information. It's an honest thing. The Labour Party believes that one should look closer to this, because it is something else to obtain this information, which is currently under judicial control, than to pass it on to another actor. The challenge here is that the PST has provided such a reasonable basis for the type of extradition that a subsequent judicial review may be difficult. In other words, once the threshold has been created, the threshold is "necessary" and the legal threshold is different. That's why we, from the Labour Party's side, are not categorical as to whether this is appropriate. But we ask for an assessment of whether it can be imported, and how it should be done. I would like to remind you that it does not contribute to the loss of time, as this is a subsequent judicial review. The majority reject this, and here I think the court should note the explanation for the plurality. They write that the reason why they are opposed to it is ‘additional dissemination of sensitive information’. They therefore believe that judicial control involves spreading sensitive information, and that the same sensitive information is controlled by the court when it comes to obtaining it. This is quite remarkable reasoning, which is likely to cover the fact that the Ministry of Justice has not thought enough about the need for this, and that they have not worked it out thoroughly enough in advance. The third is that the proposition lacks a discussion of the question of excess information – it does not address that question at all. I would remind you that the Right Party and the Advance Party agreed that this should be part of this proposal. They expressed this when the cases of hidden coercive measures were dealt with in spring 2015. So now we've got the proposal for sharing information between PST and E, but now, on the other hand, they think this is not relevant in this case, and that one doesn't need to know anything about it or discuss it before going on with this question. They point out that you can come back to this later. The Labour Party believes that the security of the kingdom is too important for one to leave it to the kind of inconsistency and incoherence that the multiple shows by these crossroads. There is also an example of the government pushing important biases ahead of itself and not making the necessary clarifications now, while they can actually. And all along it's somebody else's fault that they haven't been happy with their work. Finally, I want to discuss the suggestions we have with the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1388	Then the representative Hadia Tajik has taken up the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1393	We have just – earlier today – debated interoperability in the area of social security. In this case, we will adopt something that is important in order to improve cooperation and interaction between the PST and the E service. As previous speakers have pointed out, there is nothing new that is adopted in the way we can obtain information, or in terms of expanding the ability to obtain information, but there is the flow between the PST and the E service. We need to recognise that information may be the most important tool we have to combat terrorism and reveal that something under planning is going to happen. At the same time, the Storting is clear that when the PST is to collect information, there are clear limitations on when and how it can be done, and there must be judicial review in advance – in addition to the subsequent verification of the EOS Committee to see if it is appropriate or that it has been used in the right way. We support what is in the proposition, but in order to address several issues that have been raised during the committee reading: in terms of surplus information, we have been very clear that it is important to explore both how to limit and how to use surplus information. We then show in the setting of the request decision that was made in connection with Prop. 68 L for 2015–2016, the case of hidden coercive measures. There we were very clear that the government would come back and ‘have reviewed the rules on the use, retention and deletion of surplus information in the light of the potential of the volume of surplus information to increase significantly in the implementation of the proposals in Prop. 68 L [[2015-2016]] I do not feel that the representative Tajik feels it, that it had to come to this matter. On the contrary, I would rather have been a little surprised if it had already happened now. In any case, I believe that what is in the government's proposal is important, that one is now in the process, that a warning that regulatory changes should be sent out at the hearing in spring 2017, and a wish to return to the Stortinget in an appropriate way. It is very important, I feel that it is then in the loop, that the Council of State can also confirm or get into its article. With regard to the fact that the head or assistant head of the PST should be able to decide that a person can send surplus information, I think it is an interesting proposal. It's, as the Labour Party and the Center Party point out in the comment, a recording by the State Attorney, but I and the Christian People's Party at least thought it was wrong just to adopt it now. At least more attention needs to be paid before taking such a relatively large action. It is in any case important that it is the head of the PST that has the full responsibility, and that one does not use or supply information when one should not. Then one comes to the next proposal, which goes on subsequent judicial review. There is also an important answer that we have the EOS Committee. It works very well. When one reads the reports that come every year, one sees that the use is within what the Storting has decided. Therefore, a well-traced person may say in the comments that there will be more people who will receive information if he has a subsequent judicial review. In fact, if you do, there will be more people who get more information — get more of the surplus information — and it is not necessary when the EOS Committee does so anyway. We believe it is much better that we develop what we have, namely the EOS – and to the extent also the Control and Constitutional Committee – than to develop a whole new system, because there is no practice in Norway for a subsequent judicial review. I think it's a good thing. It is right that one should be impatient, in particular with regard to surplus information, and ensure at all times that the information obtained is, firstly, as limited as possible, that the profit information is processed in the best possible way and that it is kept as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1409	More cooperation between the PST and the E service is both good and necessary. It's important to make our country safer. That is why I support the intention of the government. The purpose of the submission is that the PST should be able to provide information to the E service that PST has obtained using hidden coercive agents. I am satisfied that after the hearing the ministry has narrowed down its purpose somewhat. The proposal now sounds so that the PST can only provide the E service with such information ‘if necessary for prevention and safety purposes’. However, I would like to stress that there is and should be a fundamental distinction between the PST and the E-service, the police and the military. Act on E-tenesta § 4 set a ban on E-tenesta being able to monitor Norwegian citizens on Norwegian soil. The proposal from the government means that the E-service can obtain information that PST has already obtained through hidden coercive measures on Norwegian soil. It goes without saying that we are now in a grey zone that makes it necessary to create a good and clear framework for which information can be passed on, and not least how it can be used. The information to be provided by PST to the E service will mainly relate to IP addresses, telephone numbers, etc. Nevertheless, it is submitted that the PST can deliver raw material to the E service. Such input may, for example: be audio or video recording where unsuspected Norwegian third parties have been captured. Nothing has been said about the processing of surplus information in the proposition, and this is in itself a criticism of the government. Saka we're dealing with today, was alert last year. Then the Workers' Party and the Centre called for a closer assessment of the use of surplus information. Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party itself wrote in their comments that they "consider that the further work takes account of an overall assessment and balance of all relevant aspects of the case, including the treatment of profit information." I am therefore surprised that this issue – by the same parties – is suddenly considered to be on the side of the content of the proposition. I believe that the Storting should re-examine the matter after an assessment has been made with a more thorough balance between the concerns about privacy and the concerns about crime reduction. I am thinking in particular of the problems associated with the use of surplus information. I would like to stress that the Central Party did not agree that we are against the exchange of information between the PST and the E service, but that we want to ensure that there are thorough assessments of key issues before decisions are taken. The centre party, together with the Labour Party, has also put forward several proposals that we think could provide a better framework for submission to the government if they are adopted. When it comes to our proposal for judicial review, some parties in the vote stated that this would lead to double-checking and would be bureaucratic. We have heard that in the debate today. They indicated that it would already have been judicial control before PST obtained the information, and that judicial control to provide the information to the E-service was therefore not necessary. A serious argument cannot be made that there has already been judicial control when using hidden coercive measures to obtain information. When the courts grant permission to PST in these cases, they assess the specific case and the specific purpose for which PST should use the information. They do not take height for the information to be shared to the E service and used for other purposes. The proposal from the Centre Party and the Labour Party is subject to subsequent judicial review precisely because it is high because it is sometimes important to make rapid decisions about the exchange of information and, therefore, it may be difficult for judicial review to be carried out in advance. This is an act to protect the legal certainty of the inhabitants, and it may seem disciplining that there is judicial control when such information is handed over from the PST to the E-service. So I'm going to take the ministry on the word when they say there's not a lot of things where the E-service is going to receive information from the PST where this information is obtained by using hidden coercive means. I therefore believe that judicial review will not be particularly bureaucratic. The need for disciplinary judicial control is stronger. I take this into account from the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1437	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1442	There is a line in the government's work in the field of law to prevent and avert terror. I think Stortinget should remind himself once again of one of the conclusions of the Gjørv Commission. The Gjørv Commission was aware that improved cooperation between the PST and the Intelligence Service was crucial in the fight to prevent and avert terrorism. Following the cruel terrorist attacks we have seen in Europe in recent years, the EU is quite clear that enhanced intelligence cooperation, both between European countries and internally in the countries, is essential to avert the terrorist activity. Today, the Police Security Service has full opportunity under the Police Register Regulation to provide information to the Intelligence Service. There is no opportunity to exchange information, that is, transfer information from the PST to the Intelligence Service, in the case of hidden coercive measures. The size has not long since had a review of the use of hidden coercive agents. Hidden coercive agents are nothing new. Hidden coercive agents may be space listening; it may be telephone listening; it may be search. The problem is that the traditional hidden coercive measures are not sufficient to carry out a well-defenced work related to the terrorist threat. Therefore, Storting opened the possibility of using so-called data-reading. Data reading is a subcategory of hidden coercive agents. The problem today is that two potential terrorists can exchange information without sending the information to each other, for example by: to store their e-mail in draft and allow others to access the PC with a password and read the message that should have expired. In this way, they have a communication without being ‘connected’ to each other. It is this type of information and this type of encrypted information that is so important that the intelligence and security services can share with each other. It is not without reason that a counter-terrorist centre has now been established between the PST and the Intelligence Service, precisely in order to establish a common understanding of the situation and exchange of information. What the Storting now takes a stand on is simply the necessary practical application of the laws that the Stortinget has done in the past, to the developments we see in the world around us in view of the threat of technology and technology as a tool for bringing about terror. It would be strange if the PST and the E service could exchange information on everything else except what has been collected through hidden coercive measures. It is precisely what is revealed by the use of hidden coercive agents — data reading, telephone interception, etc., which is the most important tool for terrorists — that is the information contained in the tools, which is so important that society, through the administration apparatus, the E-service and the PST, has access to and can use for prevention purposes to avert terrorism. If we don't, we don't take seriously the Commission's recommendation, we don't listen to what a whole Europe has said, and we're a little naive considering how we're attacking this threat we're facing, which -- I kept saying -- about monthly materializes in Europe through horrific terrorist attacks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1459	Now, when we have a new issue about the PST and the E-service in front of us, it's not about giving extended access to surveillance for once in a while, and that's a good thing. But what it's all about is a very important question, I want to say a very difficult question, which I think it's going to be taken surprisingly easily by some of the representatives of the government parties here today, that is, sharing information between our security services. If one follows the line that the representative Rivers and others here are on, it seems the most obvious thing in the world that all possible information should be able to flow between the PST and the E service. That's what's the natural follow-up of the way it's argued. But there is a reason why this is organised as two different security services with two different tasks, two different mandates and different limitations on what they are allowed to do. If you have free sharing of information between them, without any restrictions, there would be no reason to organise it that way, because then you could just ignore all those limitations by sharing information. But there is no doubt that there is a constant pressure to share information here. The last example, except for the case we have to deal with, is that it's a matter of public opinion, that's digital border surveillance. This is meant for the e-service, directed towards the rest of the world, but there is already a great pressure from the PST that this is information to which they should have access, i.e. to be able to monitor all Norwegian citizens. It would clothe some representatives to be a little more humble considering that these are actually rather difficult issues, with their nuanced debate. And then there's also a little bit of a classic time here: First, give an extended surveillance shelter, actually, for data reading, as the Storting did recently. Then it was very limited, that this should be used for this and this, and we're going to have that and that kind of judicial control, etc. – and then comes a pretty short time later and says that by the way, the E-service must have access to it. I can't remember that there was a significant argument from the government when this debate went, but now we're here, and that's how it goes. I thought the representative Tajik was holding a good post. It is quite alarming that when a data-reading case says that here we need to have a thorough discussion of the issue of surplus information, on the first occasion let's discuss it when one is going to give access to sharing information. One does not see it as necessary. I thought it was unfortunate, and I thought the criticism that came from the Workers' Party was reasonable. Nevertheless, there must be opportunities for a certain sharing of information between our security authorities. I see it, the Left is united in it, but one has to approach it by looking at what we're actually talking about -- what's the need, and what's the bottom of privacy, protecting the citizens? Now, what you're doing is you're opening up information sharing with a very difficult circle of people for very general purposes. It opens the door quite far. Then there are some proposals here that deal with important concerns about subsequent judicial review, etc., which are being denied that there is red tape. From a traditional urban point of view, it is bureaucracy when authorities prevent private individuals from exercising their freedoms. This is the opposite, that one should limit how far into the personal sphere that the state should be able to need without hindrances. To call that bureaucracy seems to me a little historyless. On the contrary, it has been an important historic mission for the bourgeois parties to say that there should be limits to the state's ability to exercise power, balanced against the individual's freedom and integrity. Based on what I have just said, the Left is not ready to support this change in law. We are going to vote in favour of the proposals from the Labour Party and the Centre Party, and we are going to vote for the Central Party's proposal here today to send the matter back to the government for a more thorough settlement. I think that's a good idea, and it should get plural, I think. If that proposal does not have a majority, the Left – at least not here today – is not ready to support the legislative changes, and we will therefore vote against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1479	I am pleased that the Justice Committee recognises the need for optimum cooperation between the PST and the E service and sees that today's legislation does not meet the need for information sharing in all cases. The proposal is a follow-up to a small but important part of the Commission’s recommendations on 22 July. The proposal helps to ensure that cooperation between the two services works optimally in today’s society, where the threat to Norway and Norwegian interests is increasingly cross-border. It is important to stress that the proposal will not entail extensive disclosure of information and that there are several requirements that need to be met. Extraditions must be necessary and proportionate in the individual case. The PST could set conditions for delivery, e.g. with regard to deletion. Like the majority of the Judicial Committee, I have several objections to the additional proposals that have been put forward, first to the proposal to limit the decision-making powers for the provision of information. Under the law of the police registry, extradition shall be decided by the decision-maker, that is, the chief PST. However, the delegation may take place, including: in order to ensure the appropriate implementation of the tasks of the service. This system should not be waived. Shutting down the possibility of delegating decision-making powers would be an obstacle to the day-to-day response and cooperation between the two services. We'll hardly be able to do that. Cooperation between services is specifically controlled by the EOS Committee. There has been no criticism of this cooperation in recent years’ annual reports. It shows that the services are fully capable of handling information exchange rules in a good way. I believe, for the same reason, that there should also be no requirement for judicial review in the case of extradition, which would be a special scheme. Unnecessary barriers to the cooperation of services would be created if the possibilities of providing information were to depend on how the information was obtained. I also record that the minority has requested the processing of Storting’s request decisions on the use, storage and deletion of surplus information. The size has been informed through the year’s budget proposal that the Ministry will submit a case on this at the hearing. The criminal law rules on the use of information from hidden coercive agents apply not only to the PST, but to the police as a whole. As the present bill is limited to extradition from the PST, this bill is not the right place to carry out such a review. The problems of surplus information are important, and it deserves careful treatment. This is precisely why a separate consultation and proposition are the right place to carry out such a review as the Stortinget has requested. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the proposal is the result of a thorough balance between the need to combat threats to Norway and Norwegian interests and other fundamental considerations, including, of course, the interest of the data protection of those concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1498	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1503	I believe that the Council of State in its statement points to the fact that, in the case of jurisdiction, the Police Register Act states that, in practice, the PST would be the head of the PST who could have the power to decide, but that it could be relevant to delegation, and that his concern attached to the Labour Party and the Central Party's proposal was primarily that it could limit the possibility of delegation. My question is, does the Council of State consider that the power of decision with regard to the provision of information from the PST to the E service should be a general delegation of authority, i.e. to several persons, or does he realize that there will be a delegation from the chief PST to individuals in specific situations where necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1508	I understand that it would be natural for the head of the PST to make those assessments, and that therefore it would also be up to the person in that function to delegate in line with other regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1513	The cord shift is...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1518	If there are no more people who have asked for a line, I would like to have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1523	Mr Tajik has the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1528	Thank you, I just wouldn't limit others if others also wanted to draw themselves. I just want to make it clear that the Council of State does not reject the fact that the head of PST can then give a general delegation of authority to up to several people without a concrete assessment of whether there is a need for it or not. That is what concerns the Labour Party, that the decision-making competence should not be sufficiently limited. Of course, he should not be so limited that it makes the necessary work of the PST and the E services difficult and cooperates with them, but that at least it should be limited to a limited number of people who can make this decision to provide information.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1535	It will be. The point is that if you have such an inevitable rule that I perceive the Workers' Party wants to go into, it will limit and perhaps hinder important information, which in the worst case can be about life and health, about averting situations that could threaten the country's security, and about serious terrorist attacks. There is also a need to have an opportunity with regard to the time available for the proper handling of the goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1540	This is a fundamentally important question, and it shouldn't be that every time a person discusses questions about the security of the kingdom, the answer from the other end is that terror is so dangerous that we have to be careful to have any demands or devices for how these things are to be practiced. Of course, terrorism must be prevented and averted, and it must be clear if a limit to the jurisdiction as recommended by the Advocate General. One should almost be able to assume that the Attorney General does not want terrorist attacks to take place either. I just want to know if the Council of State sees any difficulty in that it does not want to take any form of delimitation of decision-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1545	There are clear indications as to when to transfer such information – as is also evident in the legislative proposal under consideration in the Grand Duchy today. There's some clear frames drawn up. There is no question here that there is a free movement of information, which is something you can get from the Workers' Party's question. There is a framework for that, and there are also some requirements to be met. This is a natural follow-up of the 22nd of July Commission. This is an important part of the preparedness work that is about the non-conforming agencies and authorities. Having a good flow of information between them in cases where it is necessary — in this case, the PST and the E service — is of particular importance in order to maintain preparedness in this country, as pointed out by the July 22 Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1553	In its last speech, the Council of State said that there were clear frameworks for the sharing of this information. There are rather discretionary frames, to say it carefully, but frames are. That being said, they will not be controlled by any court. I found that the Council of State dismissed this question of subsequent judicial review a little easily. What we're talking about is that the PST will get permission to go out and for example. hack a computer with a purpose and with a suspect in your eye. In that process, a person will be able to obtain much surplus information about the whole other person who is not involved or under assessment. This information shall then be able to be shared later by the E-service, without a court having to be able to assess whether it is necessary to do so, if it meets the requirements. Does not the Council of State see that having a court of law inside it could be both desirable and necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1560	We have other good mechanisms to protect precisely privacy in terms of both the PST and the E service. It's about the EOS committee, which I perceive the Stortinget seems to be doing a good job – it's also my clear opinion. It will be able to deal with these aspects of the PST and the e-service work. We have no tradition of judicial control over the disclosure of information already obtained. It is important to point out that although the provision of information constitutes a new interference with the right to privacy, it is not specific for the coercive measures covered by § 216-9. There is no judicial control in other areas where information is provided, such as: from hidden searches or hidden seizures. These coercive measures are not covered by § 216.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1567	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1572	First, I would like to say that making the head of the E-service and the head of the PST as case handlers for which information is to be exchanged between the PST and the E-service is hardly suitable for getting these two services to cooperate better, as the Gørv Commission pointed out. So Rotevatn called for more nuance in the debate – yes, I guess so. The representative Rotevatn claimed that the information could now flow freely, that it was up to the PST's own satisfaction which information should flow to the E-service. It's just that it's wrong. The premise is that there should be judicial review, there should be grounds for suspicion, and there should be serious crime with a criminal penalty of 10 years and above. There are three important criteria to be met and which are far from the claim that the representative Rotevatn was able to make. So I would like to remind the Stortinget that Stortinget actually gets a case to deal with how surplus information is to be processed, profit information that has been obtained through the use of hidden coercive agents and data reading. It was a decision Stortinget did when we opened up the use of data reading. Finally, I would say – it is a repetition of my previous post – that it will be very strange and directly ineffective and a blocking of the mission of the PST and the E service whose information obtained through hidden coercive measures cannot be exchanged between the PST and the E service. It is, of course, the information contained in the use of hidden coercive measures, which is the tool for potential terrorists. That is why the Storting has adopted the use of hidden coercive substances for terrorist purposes and data reading, and then the Stortinget must also say B when it has said A, so that the Intelligence Service and the PST can make use of this information, which is the second most important information in order to avert terrorism and the tools of potential terrorists in order to plan and in part launch terrorist attacks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1583	I believe that the representative of Elvenes must separate right after when I speak and he should try to answer, because I did not say in my post that one with this decision would allow the information to flow freely. What I said was that, according to the Elves representative's argument, there was little to argue against it being able to do so, because he so unilaterally stressed the enormous need for one here to have almost said wide-open doors for the purpose of repressing terrorism. Fortunately, it's not as crazy about what's now happening to us. But it's also not quite right that the representative of the Rivers says when he talks about the conditions that the PST can initially go in with hidden coercion, e.g. data-reading services. It is true that there are relatively strict entry conditions. They are rightly not confined to terrorism, which also applies, for example, to terrorism. drug crime, with very high penalties. But the question isn't that, the question is, what about any excess information that you get after hacking that PC or cell phone, about third parties who weren't subject to that assessment, but who still have their privacy invaded? Is that information to be shared with the E service, as the representative here calls for? I think that is a rather difficult debate. Therefore, I called for a little more nuances instead of this one-sided emphasis on the very right and important fight against terrorism – a neglecting both privacy and not least why one initially organised the security service in the way one has, in two different parts, where one has different mandates, different competences and different things one should monitor and investigate. That reflection seems to me to be missing both in Elves' first post and in his answer to me, and I hope that in future debates we can approach these questions with somewhat different emphasis and somewhat more nuanced approach. Here, there is a real need to look up to each other, and I believe – if the Storting is going to be able to make good decisions – that a person is wise to recognise, without believing that a single person is on the side of what is best for both the privacy of Norwegian citizens and the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1594	The representative of Haarek Rivers has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1599	I perceived it there that the representative Rotevatn has moved during the debate. That's positive. I now perceive the representative Rotevatn as being for information obtained through hidden coercive measures in the PST to be exchanged for the E-service – that is precisely what this matter is about – and the representative Rotevatn is against the fact that surplus information should flow to the E-service from the PST. Exactly, and therefore, the government has followed up a case – The Storting has decided that there is a case – about how to process surplus information. So, at my poor discretion, the representative Rotevatn now stands on the government's policy, but chooses to vote against it – for an unknown reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1604	The representative Sveinung Rotevatn has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1609	With all due respect, I think this is to bring the debate down to a level where he doesn't belong. I don't know if it's that the representative of Riveres doesn't understand the nuances of this, or that he won't understand, but it's actually not that what we're debating is whether or not PST should be able to share information with the E-service or not. That's not what we're discussing. The question is what type of information, how far and under what conditions. That's the discussion. I said in my main post – and I think I have stuck to that line in all my posts – that this is a demanding debate, and I say that the government has not done this in a good enough way and has not taken sufficient care of this with the excess information. Promiseing that there will be a case later, after one has given the house, is obviously not a good enough answer. That's why we're going to vote for the proposal of the Center Party to send this case back to the government, so we can get a proper assessment. I actually thought the representative of the Elves should do that too, and if that proposal were to fall, at least the Left cannot vote for these legislative changes today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1614	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1630	This Directive contains a number of amendments to Directive 2003/98/EC, called the Reusability Directive. This Directive lays down stricter rules on transparency in the calculation of fees for facilitating re-use, has new rules for the establishment of such fees and extends the scope of the Directive. The Committee notes that the amending Directive gives stronger impetus to making public data available for re-use. In addition, the Committee would point out that it does not change the current legal basis that there is no public obligation to make data available for further use. Otherwise, I refer to the proposition, which is supported by a joint committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1639	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1653	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker was to be Mazyar Keshvari, but it's Helge André Njåstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1664	It is true that the spokesman for the case is sick today. Then I'm going to hold the case chairman's post on behalf of Mazyar Keshvari, who would like to thank the Committee for a thorough and important work on this proposition on changes in, among other things. administrative law, dispute law, planning and building law and a number of other laws. The background to this case is the desire of the government to introduce a new system in which municipalities and local self-government may bring an action against the State if one is inconsistent with a counterclaim or a decision taken by the Ministry. It's a matter for which my party, the Progress Party, has long been anxious. Many people have listened to us in various election campaigns about an administrative court to ensure even stronger rights to local self-government than what our practices have until today. So for us, it's a day to enjoy, and it's also a day to look forward to the government party that we get multiple numbers for the principal lines of this proposition made by the government. There are two main proposals which form the basis here. The only thing that's said is that now municipalities can bring matters that go on decisions taken by the ministry or counterparticipation, to the courts. The second, which is so important, is the change made to the administrative law, which from now on is replaced by the following: ‘Where a State body is the Board of Appeal for decisions taken by a municipality or county council, the Board of Appeal shall attach great importance to the consideration of the local self-government in the exercise of free discretion. The decision shall state how the Board of Appeal has called into question the consideration of municipal autonomy.`; This means that the administrative laws now stress the importance of local self-government, and give particular reasons for how one has taken this into account. When a countersign is considered or a countersign is generated, this shall be done. This means that according to this change, local politicians in Norway now have a completely different recognition from what they have had in the past, because now the state and others who are tempted to contradict have to justify why they do so on the basis of local self-government. So it's a day to look forward to local democracy in Norway when the Stortinge brought about this change in the administrative law, which underlines local self-government even more. It's going to be very exciting to get the authority in place to get to it. Now I don't think the courts will be called down by the local authorities, but only the fact that we open up to it, sends out a signal that those who have access to contradictions have to think about one, two and three more times before they go to the step of getting away from the local authority. This is a big day for local democracy, it's a big day for the government party, and it's a big day for the Progress Party, which is now winning with one thing about something we've meant for a long time, that local self-government should be emphasised more strongly. For this reason, I recommend that you accept a vote for the changes in your configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1692	The proposition that we are dealing with here today, we believe in the Workers' Party, does not inform the Storting in a good enough way. There's a proposition that's a positive angle to the case without explaining the negative consequences that it might have. The government wants to delegate the policy to court, as the court administration has warned us against. We believe that it is the politicians and the policy that must be responsible for the difficult issues that politicians have to deal with. We have, everyone sitting in this room, received letters and e-mails from the different courts that are very concerned that they are not going to be able to get away from the matters that they already have on their table, and that they are actually going to work with in the court administration. We in the Workers' Party want strong local democracy and the local democracy's judgements to be given great importance. One must also give the local self-governed space to manage well-adapted local conditions. Local politicians have a desire to make good decisions for their citizens, but what is absolutely crucial is that the municipalities and the counties have to get the framework conditions they need in order to accomplish their tasks as best they can. In practice, it will provide a sufficient financial framework to provide good services to citizens. The government's proposal in this proposition does not respond to the needs of the municipalities, the counties and the inhabitants. It is usually economic constraints that govern the choices made by local democracy. Therefore, a strengthening of their ability to rule themselves in a better way than they can today. The Labour Party believes that there are several challenges to government proposals. This could lead to restrictions on the achievement of legal objectives, and we also ask questions about whether these proposals take into account the rights and interests of citizens. The government also gives little account of how these proposed changes should actually strengthen local democracy. There is also little explanation of how different sectors will be affected by the changes, since the changes proposed are entirely general. This proposition is not sufficiently well established, and it makes it difficult to decide on the changes. But if it is properly investigated, we in the Workers' Party are positive about resuming the matter. If so, we assume that other measures such as strengthening the local economy plus assessments of other instruments are also considered in the same sling. With regard to the delimitation of the jurisdiction of the State Board of Appeal to review the free judgement of the municipalities, there will be clear limits on the attainment of legal purposes. In particular, nature and the environment and the rights of its inhabitants could be harmful. The complainant to state bodies in cases will have less chance of getting through because the Board of Appeal will then place great emphasis on the judgements of the first instance. With regard to dispute resolution mechanisms and the proposal that municipalities should be allowed to bring a case against the State, it is problematic because it is completely in violation of current practices. This could lead to a risk that the case against the private party to which the case relates may be prolonged and create legal uncertainty for the person who has been granted a derogation or a right, and make the municipalities a counterparty to individuals, which is problematic in the relationship or trust between the municipalities and the citizens. The government also has a selective use of sources of international law in the proposition, which does not give a nuanced image. The fact that a seemingly deliberate omission of central parts of the provision of international law relied on as a basis for change is problematic. The government’s proposal could lead to the courts – I kept saying – being hampered by the need to define national objectives and guidelines, and to have to go into this separately in order to find out what this actually says, which is the responsibility of the politicians. It's not the work of the courts, it's the work of the politicians. These questions are far too poorly addressed. Here the government should provide a thorough investigation in front of an internal ministerial hearing. We don't think these changes are sufficiently thought out, and these changes raise several fundamental questions that are far too little problematised. That is why we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1711	With the Right in Government, it has carried out important reinforcements of local self-government, which we have raised the need for for for many years, and which we promised to do if we came to power. The Labour Party representative Eirin Sund, who was just in the pulpit, has earlier in this Chamber expressed a rather situational enthusiasm for local democracy. It's something that's ok as long as there's no decision that she's very disagreeable about, free of memory. In the Right, we are concerned with the self-value of local democracy and of local self-government. As a general rule, this government gives the municipalities right in local planks, where the red-green – as a general rule – kept with the state. With the Right in Government, we also see that the efficiency of central government and the number of staff employed in the ministries has decreased; the Planning and Building Act simplifies and frees municipal proceedings; greater freedom from State overarching; many municipalities merge, most voluntarily, to the great annoyance of some. there will be several tasks for both municipalities and county councils; state jobs are moved out of the capital; and The regional reform will reduce the number of municipalities And today, we are dealing with another proposal that will help to strengthen local democracy and shift power and responsibility to the municipalities. First, State review bodies shall not be able to review the exercise of free discretion in the municipalities to the extent that they have previously been able to do so. Individual rights of the inhabitants are maintained. The law should continue to be followed by the municipalities, of course, but it is a matter of raising the threshold for overcoming the free discretion exercised by the municipalities. I don't know if it was a delay, but the representative Sund said that the Workers' Party attaches great importance to local democracy's judgements. It is, in fact, precisely what is the wording and the proposal to change the law, that one should go from focusing on free discretion, to putting great emphasis on free discretion. So if Eirin Sund and the Labour Party literally meant what was said from the pulpit, you should also vote in favour of that proposal. It is amazing to hear the skepticism of the Workers' Party in the matter, because what the Workers' Party says is really this: Before the municipalities get as much money as the Workers' Party decides is enough, we cannot trust the people who exercise discretion and who use their wits and reason in the municipalities. There's an echo here to what I thought at first was single statements from the representative Sund, but which you can now suspect is an ingrained scepticism in the Workers' Party, namely that the party is more to be regarded as a situation-dependent member of local self-government. The Ministry also proposes to give the municipalities as a public body the right to bring an action against the State, with some exceptions, among other things. child protection matters. In addition, provision shall be made for judicial review and objection under the Law on Planning and Building. The idea is not that the municipalities should jump to court every time a decision in the state goes against them – and we don’t think it’s going to happen either – but it’s a very timely question whether it’s now not time to make what Norway lacks, namely a dispute resolution system between the state and the municipality also for legal issues. We need that today, even though we are internationally obliged to have it. This will thus help to strengthen the local authority's relative position towards a fairly powerful state. Municipalities should not simply accept that ‘this is the case when the State has spoken’, but should be able to bring cases to justice. Lose the state, for example. Because the right is that the State has not complied with its own passed laws – that is what it is about – it will also be up to the State if it considers that there is a need to amend or clarify the law. But it's not supposed to be the way it is today, that the municipalities just have to thank and find out that it's the country's interpretation that applies. Here again, it is surprising that the Workers' Party argues against giving the municipalities such a strengthened position in relation to the State. It's kind of weird to listen to the argument. I don't know if one can decide, because on the one hand one argues against the proposals as such, almost on a principle basis, and on the other hand one complains that it is not well enough investigated. In any case, not only does this show that the Workers' Party is a situation-specific supporter of local self-government, but they also show the willingness to go far to take the country's party against local democracy. The opposition to the proposals in this case does not promise good for the decentralisation of power and authority if the Workers' Party would come to power again. In the right, we have as our starting point that the wit is fairly evenly distributed across the country, and not collected within these walls – although it is certainly fairly evenly distributed within here as well. That is why I am pleased that the Right and Government have implemented and promoted several proposals that will contribute to strong and vibrant local democracy and strengthened municipal autonomy, so that knowledge and understanding – evenly distributed across the country – can be used and gained greater impact locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1766	This is one thing with several legislative amendments that for us in the Christian People's Party well harmonizes with our principle and ideological thinking. We have a fine word for it: the principle of subsidiarity, which, to put it simply, means that decisions should be taken at the lowest appropriate level. It's okay to have an ideological compass as the direction indicator. In this case, we see that there are, of course, counter-arguments to the changes made by the government, but the Christian People's Party has gone into this thoroughly, and we choose to let the principle of proximity and more power of local democracy trump those objections. On that basis, the Christian People's Party supports the present proposals of the government in this matter. The Government has proposed that the municipalities be able to bring the decision taken by the State authorities to justice in cases where the State decision has consequences for the municipalities as a public authority. This is an important democratic safety valve, as we see it, and it logically harmonises with the fact that municipal autonomy was attached to the constitution last year. However, this shall not apply in fundamental cases of State review of fundamental welfare rights of citizens. It is also logical that the Ministry or other State Board of Appeal should pay particular attention to the consideration of municipal self-government when dealing with complaints. We see that the rule must be flexible and adapted to different areas of action, but that the consideration of municipal autonomy will in any case be given greater weight than today, i.e. a certain shift of power over to the elected level. At the same time, it is important for the Christian People's Party to stress that it is important in several areas that the municipalities follow up national policies, and we will follow that closely. I can't take the whole list, but that's true, for example. rights-based welfare measures, management of natural resources and not least soil protection. That's why, in this case, we are involved in moving more power to a lower level, more power to the elected representatives of the municipalities. It also means more responsibility to our elected representatives, and the Christian People's Party trusts that the administration of the municipalities and the elected representatives are able to take that responsibility. The Christian People's Party is satisfied with this matter so far and will follow the changes carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1781	The center party will build society from below. Decisions are best taken close to the one in question. Therefore, the Central Party believes that the foundation law of Stortingen on local self-government was important, and that is why we also believe that community mergers should only take place on a voluntary basis. The representative Jensen spent a lot of his time accusing the Workers' Party of not being able to decide. In that case, they are in very good company here in the hall, because while he is talking about the self-esteem of local self-government, that the sense is evenly distributed throughout the country, he also talks about the fact that the sense is not evenly divided in terms of community reunification, and that local self-government should not apply in matters other than where the local politicians agree with the Right. The Central Party believes that local self-government should also apply in cases where local politicians disagree with the Central Party. In our administration, municipalities have an independent role as policy makers. Within the legal and budgetary frameworks adopted by the Stortinget, municipalities have great freedom – formally speaking. Actually, we see that the state's arm is far more invasive than what our management system adds up to. One thing is that we here from Stortinget want to rule – yes, we may admit a little too often overrule the municipalities and county municipalities. Worse still, government directorates and businesses use circulars and various types of control signal to override the municipal sector. The role of the people in the community reform is an example of how it should not be. The Central Party considers the proposals for amendments to the Administrative Act, the Arbitration Act and the Planning and Building Act to be a natural follow-up to the Storting decision to legislate municipal autonomy. Through the proposed legislative changes, we weaken the ability of state agencies to over-examine the exercise of free discretion in municipalities. The consultation on the legislative amendment proposal showed that there is generally a strong support for the Ministry's proposal for amendments, but that there is also some resistance. While the KS and the municipal sector believe that the proposals help to establish a better balance between the need for government governance and the free judgement of municipalities, there are fears from some statesmen and stakeholders that we are moving towards a society where there is a greater degree of diversity of treatment. I believe this fear is greatly exaggerated, but I would nevertheless point out that once we have established a management system with three elected bodies, it is because we recognise that there is a need for local adaptations in the decisions taken. Both in the field of service production and in planning processes, solutions need to be adapted to local conditions. We live in a country with great variations. For example, the Beach Act should: managed differently in Inner Oslofjord than along the Finnmark coast. I would like to point out that the objective of the legislative changes to strengthen local democracy is not to bring about greater discrimination against the fundamental welfare services for which the municipalities are responsible. Provision has been made for welfare provisions not to be subject to a limited State right to review free judgement. I hope we all believe that there should be a great deal of equal treatment of the assistance and assistance to be given to vulnerable groups. Local and state politicians believe that they experience far too much overarching from different government authorities, and that is not the main thing they point to at that time. Our local politicians are committed to taking decisions tailored to local needs. The criticism of local politicians is not primarily that they have made mistakes, but that they are unable to meet documented needs. This applies not least to the local welfare offer. I therefore ask the government to read our remark that the decisive step to ensure that the municipalities and county councils can meet state expectations is to give them the financial framework conditions they need to meet the tasks they are assigned, in the best possible way. I believe that the changes in the laws that we are invited to do today can be discriminatory in how the state implements its governance. The State shall govern by law, regulation or administrative action resulting from the legislative acts and budgets adopted by the Stortinget. When the municipalities are given the right to apply to the State, this will contribute to the strengthening and clarification of the wording by the State. Finally, I would like to address a problem that has been raised in the proposition regarding the jurisdiction of the intercommunal company. I agree with the Ministry when they conclude that only directly elected bodies should be given legal jurisdiction against the State. It must be understood that the review of decisions taken by the State in inter-municipal cooperation may also be subject to review by the courts when decisions are taken by the municipalities which have established the cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1804	Local democracy is about trust – trust that decisions should preferably be taken by those closest to the community affected, trust that local peoples know their own community and the challenges and opportunities that characterise that community, and, not least, trust that local community voters will be good and their communities, and that they make informed choices when they choose their local politicians. Local democracy means more tailor-made solutions that suit local reality. This is why the debate on local solutions is promised, because local decisions are taken – not on the Stortinget or in the capital. It is therefore discouraging when the county continuously reviews local decisions, without sufficiently including the right to municipal autonomy in the bill. This is about making it possible for municipalities to provide better services. This is about having confidence that there are several ways to achieve a goal, and that even if the goal is set, it should be up to local communities to find solutions that are best suited to them. When you talk about municipal autonomy, sometimes it sounds a little distant and gray. What is municipal autonomy, and why should we let the municipalities decide so much on their own – they are, after all, just an administrative body? This is an understanding I want to live. I want it alive because it's easy to forget who's behind the municipality. It's a community and their elected representatives. There are not knowledgeless and cynical people who want to celebrate the welfare offer to the inhabitants. It is parents, grandparents, sons and daughters who decide for the community in which they live – and yes, representatives from all different parties. When making decisions, they must live with the consequences. If they donate money to a new cultural house, that's what culture house they're going to send their children to in future theater courses and cinema fields. They set up a new seniority center, they know that either they themselves, or maybe their parents, are going to be able to spend a part of their lives there. That is why we need to have confidence in them; we need to have faith in the principle of subsidiarity, because there is nothing to suggest that local politicians make worse decisions than national politicians. That's why I'm glad we've now got Prop. 64 L, which increases the threshold for State review of municipal decisions. That's why I'm happy to Prop. 64 L strengthens the hands of municipalities when they assess their next steps in matters where they feel unfairly treated by the state. During this great period, we have seen the germ of a decentralization reform, a reform that puts power out, where it belongs: among the people. It was an important prerequisite for the Left and the other bourgeois parties that when we took up municipal reform and regional reform, it should also lead to increased municipal freedom and new tasks for the county council. Prop. 64 L is a good step in the right direction in a democracy project that is about spreading power and creating lives in local democracy. It will be a paradox when I hear the representative Sund, from the Workers' Party, who understands local democracy, but clearly the situation. A local democracy that is situational, as the representative Jensen also said, I think is a remarkable input to the local elections and the local ways of doing things. It's an interesting thing the representative Heidi Greni is addressing, and maybe it's time to start talking about the generalist principle, if it's going to apply everywhere, it's what strengthens the local solutions very well – without I being able to hear any response from the representative. It's probably just part of the answer and the solution that you can't necessarily have the exact same thing in each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1825	SV is primarily concerned that citizens of the different municipalities will be granted the rights they are entitled to under the law. There is a lot of variation today; it shows all the supervision that is being carried out. So when I hear other representatives are up and talking very warmly about different levels of government and their need to be respected and taken into account, I miss a sentence about the inhabitants. There has been a long debate in Norway on the legalisation of policies. SV believes that granting rights to people in a country is policy, and we want the rights of citizens to be clearly respected by legislation, regardless of the level of administration that it is necessary to perform any service. It is the people's position against strong governance that should worry the majority the most. That is why I can join the post of the representative Sund and the views that came there. And just a brief remark to the representative Jensen, who claimed that the county council had got more tasks now: it is well, to say the word, to take a little bit. There have been smaller tasks and less money. I hear the majority here are talking about the judgements that are now to be given greater importance, that is free discretion. The problem is that more national supervision is illegal — for example: detects the four inspections that have been carried out in recent years on services for people with developmental disabilities, illegality in 77-90 p.m. of the cases. That means that the law is broken. These are people who need to be able to complain to the state authorities of the State, and their rights must not be "recognized" away, either by the municipality or in a decree that the county council is now going to put more emphasis on local property – because it is very often exceeded; it is said that it is a local authority, but the law has not been complied with. I would like to remind you of NOU 2016:17, Equally, which has documented discrimination in all areas of life, especially for people with developmental disabilities. There is no one in this room who is not familiar with all the complaints in the care of the elderly, lack of hospitalization, lack of follow-up of specific rights older people have, or rights for children who have difficulty reading and writing, with whom I have worked a lot, who do not receive the follow-up they should have. Therefore, we believe in SV that there was reason to first clarify what is local discretion and to make sure that you have the opportunity to carry out what are the statutory tasks in line with the rights of the inhabitants. Then it is that it should be possible to do so, you need a stronger local economy. I understand that the government parties and supporting parties are not as concerned as SV, because we realize that it will be possible – because we have a very strong law today, which gives very many people very strong rights on paper – we need to strengthen the local economy far beyond what the government and the majority are willing to do. SV agrees that when decisions are to be taken on appeals by the State authority, they should be justified. That's exactly where we agree, so that's what we're supporting. I would also like to promote the proposal in the motion for a resolution, for which I hope it will be the majority. It is a sort of subsidiary proposal, because it is about what is going to be adopted today, namely that the municipalities are given the opportunity to bring legal proceedings against the State. Then it may be that individuals must be able to enter into those matters, and then we believe that they must be entitled to free legal aid. The majority who are behind what is going to be adopted today should also support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1844	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1849	The government will strengthen municipal autonomy and shift power and responsibility to the municipalities, and I am pleased that we are today getting a majority for the proposals that have been put forward. Municipal self-government is important to promote local democracy. It facilitates the greater impact of communities and communities on their own social development. Municipal self-government provides room for service adaptation to individual and local circumstances. This provides a basis for more efficient and fair governance, taking into account the different challenges and opportunities of individuals, businesses and communities in different parts of the country. The issue we are dealing with today contains two proposals to strengthen municipal autonomy: firstly, to allow municipalities as public bodies to bring questions about the validity of state decisions before the courts; and secondly, to allow state review bodies to give greater emphasis to the consideration of municipal autonomy when trying to exercise free discretion by municipalities. I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the government's proposals. Allowing municipalities to bring an action before the courts will ensure an independent test of the validity of state decisions. It is good that the municipalities have the same opportunities as the private ones to bring an action against the State if they believe that the State has taken an invalid decision. Such independent testing could clarify the legal situation and provide important guidance in future cases – for both the State and the municipality. The municipalities are thus tested whether the interpretation of the rules by the municipalities or the State is correct. It will no longer be the view of the State that will automatically be based if the State and the municipalities disagree legally. This will strengthen municipal self-government in key issues for municipalities, such as complaint handling, regulatory requirements, law enforcement and objections. The legislative proposal is also a follow-up to the recommendation of the Council of Europe Municipal Congress to bring the Norwegian legislation fully into line with Article 11 of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. A State decision brought before the courts by the municipality could relate to the provision of central welfare services to a citizen. In order to ensure that citizens are taken into account, the Government proposes that decisions under the central welfare laws cannot be reversed even if a court has declared the decision invalid. Except where the resident has intentionally or grossly negligently provided incorrect information to the administration. The legislative proposal thus ensures that private parties do not lose the right to important welfare services as a result of legal proceedings between a municipality and the State. The new dispute resolution shall also apply to objections to municipal plans. It is therefore proposed to amend the Planning and Building Act in order to enable the municipality to bring an action on the validity of an objection, as well as on the decision of the department on objections. An action on the validity of an objection must be brought before mediation is conducted between the parties. It is also proposed to legislate that objections from State and regional bodies should be justified by national or regional objectives, frameworks and guidelines. This is currently a practice and can be seen in a circular. The proposal therefore does not alter the right to raise objections. The government also wants to strengthen municipal autonomy in order to give municipalities and citizens greater influence over the provision of services and the development of society in their own community. We therefore propose to amend the administrative law so that state review bodies must place greater emphasis on municipal self-government when testing the free judgement of municipalities. The amendment requires the Board of Appeal to pay particular attention to the municipal self-government where the rule of law gives municipalities free discretion in the choice of several legal action options. Today, the Board of Appeal shall in such cases be given priority by the Municipal Self-Government. Free judgment is available when the rule of law allows municipalities to adapt decisions according to local and individual circumstances. The amendments will not affect the right of the Board of Appeal to review the interpretation, the procedure, the use of the facts or the existence of abuses of powers by local authorities. This is about strengthening the ability of municipalities to make individual and local adjustments. The proposal therefore improves the ability of municipalities to discharge overall responsibilities for the provision of services and the political and economic governance of the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1884	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1889	I read in the Kommunal Report on Friday that the rapporteur in Eidsberg – from the Right – who introduced property tax from the New Year of, said that they did so because they did not have ‘any room for action’. Without the property tax, it would be'retirement', says this Right-Rapporteur. I wonder what the Council of State and the Government think and believe – or what their attitude is – that the Progress Party now wants to liquidate the local authorities' ability to collect property taxes, which I believe today gives municipalities income of around 12 billion. kr. What does the Council of State think about that? Is there any restriction on the extension of local self-government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1896	It has not strictly taken anything to do with this matter. This is a legislative proposal to introduce a dispute resolution mechanism. What the Progress Party had to write in its programme is what the Progress Party's national meeting adopts, just as the Workers' Party decides what should be included in the Workers' Party's programme. That being said, I would like to add that during this period the municipalities have gained a stronger growth in their free income than they received when the red-greens put in power. This means that municipalities have also been given an increased space for action, increased space to do their priorities, through the financial allocations. This issue is neither about the proposals of the Progress Party on property taxes nor about what the rapporteur in Eidsberg had to think about the introduction of property taxes in his own municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1905	I have perceived this proposition so that one wants to strengthen local democracy, local self-government. I have at least understood it so that one wants to give the municipalities more power over the state and other agencies. I think it is strange if the Council of State does not see that the income base of the municipalities and the financial framework conditions of the municipalities are relevant to the service provision – because it is precisely both service provision and self-government that are involved in this proposition. Nevertheless, I have to ask again – or in another way: does the Council of State not believe that the financial framework conditions may be the most important one in order for municipalities to be able to provide the services they are going to provide to their citizens? I believe that the rapporteurs from the Right in Eastfold believe that this is the most important thing in order to deliver a good service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1912	Good and predictable local economy is essential in order to enable municipalities to provide good and adapted services to their citizens. It has been our government along with our cooperation parties in this period, and it has been a stronger growth than it was under red-green rule. I also have to say that I am a little surprised that the Workers' Party, which has not wanted to decide on this matter now, asks questions about what the Progress Party writes in its programme on property taxes, instead of going into this matter, which is so important for the municipal sector, and which has received so much support in the municipalities. I am pleased that this is being adopted, and that through this we are now strengthening local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1921	The Ministry states in the bill that it should only be the municipality to which the State decision ‘direct action’ is addressed, which is to be given legal jurisdiction, to be able to have a judicial review of disagreement between the State and the municipal sector. My question is related to what is included in the concept of ‘direct action’. In important municipal areas, such as water and sewerage, renovation, audit, etc., there is extensive inter-municipal cooperation. It is not natural that the IKS itself should be given legal jurisdiction, I agree. However, when the municipalities behind the cooperation decide to use their ability to review what they see as an unreasonable state intervention, I assume that the wording I mentioned does not prevent them from trying this matter. Can the Council of State confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1928	Let me start by giving honor to the Center Party. I am pleased that the Central Party is largely in favour of the proposal put on the table. It shows that the Center Party is occupied by the local self-government. We have also found common formulations in the Storting that underline the importance of soil protection, which is an important matter for the Centre Party. The representative now goes very far into the finish line – I may have to get back to the finish line. I recommend that the representative send me a written question about this, so that she gets a very precise answer. What is within this law is linked to intermunicipal cooperation, which is based on the principle of the host municipality, which is enshrined in the municipal law. Then it will be possible to take action. But I recommend, as I said, a written question. And then we're going to get the precision of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1935	First to the City Council's boast of the municipal economy: I was last week in the municipality of Åsne, which has one of the oldest people in the country, and has now had to cut 25 sick homes. To say it this way, they don't quite know each other. They're going in plus because they've cut out things that the population actually needs. However, the question arises: If the cases in which individuals may be subject to such a right of action as the municipalities have with the State, the Council of State and also the proposition say that it will not have a ‘direct effect on the private party’. But it's probably the case that the municipality, for example. may use the Administrative Act to reverse the decision in any event and that the law will probably be applied fairly quickly in such cases. Does the Council not see the need for private individuals to receive free legal aid in such cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1942	Again to the local economy: we now see the results for the municipalities' economy that it is necessary to return to the 1990s to find the corresponding operating surplus two years in a row. We also see that the number of ROBEK municipalities has gone down to the lowest number ever. This shows that good financial management in municipalities is consistently good and that municipalities have a good and predictable framework. With regard to the question, it is that a private individual will not be able to be involved in an action against his/her will. There is no need for a private party to intervene in the proceedings in matters relating to the prohibition of restitution in the field of welfare. It is simply linked to the fact that it is a conversion ban. The person who has been granted a right shall retain his right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1949	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1956	It was claimed here that the Workers' Party does not trust local representatives, and that we do not trust the discretion of local government and county council members. It is simply an unfair and incorrect claim. I hope the representative Frank J. Jensen, who made the claim, presses the button, comes up and pulls it back. The government parties are very inconsistent in their approach to local democracy, to put it mildly, and to the balances between the policy adopted by the Stortinget and local democracy. There may be severe balances — well-being, school, environment and land management. We politicians must have and take the responsibility of being elected to the people, and ensure that these balances are actually with us politicians. Here the government will go in the opposite direction. It transfers difficult political assessments to the courts. There is no more power for local democracy. There is more power to the judiciary and nothing else. You must not try to make the matter any other matter. As an elected national, I appreciate discussing with other elected representatives, in agreement and in disagreement, and seek to get matters settled between elected representatives – not to meet in the courtroom and stand and discuss with a judge or more. We hear that we are situational. Yes, thank you for that! In the case of those who trust local discretion, at least the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left do not put in the queue first. We can only point to the regional reform and local reform as shining examples of not seeing and listening to others other than themselves. At least you don't listen to the local government and the county councils, which have meant something other than the government. Obviously, that's okay. Short for the line change: it is under pressure that without the introduction of property taxes in Eidsberg, there had been a standstill and no development, and that there is a very demanding economic situation. That is what the rapporteur says in Eidsberg. But I record that the Municipal Minister, the Right and the Advance Party are not listening, and they are losing what they had left of credibility there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1976	It was the representative from SV who made me take the floor, because it was said that they missed something about the inhabitants of this case. Then I would like to make it clear that we may have different experiences, but after actively participating in municipal policy for 20-30 years and conducting many hundreds of inspections and dealing with thousands of issues in the main technical committee, which has to do with citizens everywhere, I feel that the citizens accept more readily what is being said by local politicians. There's gonna be anger, you're gonna shut up, you're gonna blow out, or you're gonna get some praise. We can take that, and it's accepted. What creates discouragement, anger and distance from decisions is often what comes from the central government – from the state and such. Then we are often local politicians and blamed, and the person who suffers is democracy. I think this bill is in line with the opinion I'm registering out there among people. They want to deal with local politicians. If a case has a wrong outcome, it is certainly a party that takes the matter up again. At least that's how it works on Karmøy, and I think this bill will strengthen the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1985	When it comes to trusting local politicians, SV trusts them so much that we believe they should manage a larger part of the total economy in the country. They have to be able to comply with the laws that we have imposed on them, and the majority should agree. In the case of the municipal economy, the municipality I mentioned is a ROBEK municipality. What the municipality has had to do to get the operating result that the council boasts of is to set aside 25 sick homes that they need. That's how it's been land and beach all around. There have been some extraordinary revenues, which the Council of State now boasts of, and which have helped some municipalities, but that does not mean that many municipalities actually fulfil their obligations, as state supervision has shown, for example. for people with developmental disabilities. I am a little surprised at the Christian People's Party that has not received the strong calls from the Norwegian Association for the Developmentally Disabled and the Disabled Association to go against these legislative changes, precisely with the reasons that SV has, that it is quite a long way to go until you fulfil the rights of the different municipalities. Then the rights of the law apply, and not the municipal authority that should be above it. There is, of course, a need to discuss what municipal discretion should be, because there might be some disagreement about that. But I would like to remind you of the NOU that it says in the setting, went through how these complaints are handled by the County. The majority of the sample points out that what you're doing is going a long way in calling what's right in the law, for discretion. That's how I think it is, unfortunately, in many municipalities. It's not because they want people to hurt something -- nobody wants to do it -- but they just don't have money at all. Then the parties that they don't think they can afford to give the people the rights they claim to have under the law should be honest and say so and rather change the law. SV wants these rights to be fulfilled. That's why we have the strongest municipal economy of all the parties in this room, because we think it's good and right. That's what would give municipal politicians the opportunity to meet the law's requirements, and maybe they also had a little in addition to it, so that they could practice good politics on the local level with income that went to what is absolutely necessary and that's imposed on them. Then I believe that trust in local politicians and not least in big politicians would increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e1996	This will be at the direct invitation of the representative of Løvaas, who has commented on my post. What I have pointed out is the Workers' Party's argument about how far you should leave the discretion of the municipalities and local people elected to be. When the Workers' Party argues against giving it greater weight and raising the threshold in order to overestimate the discretion of saying that the municipalities do not have enough money to exercise reasonable judgement because you are obviously under pressure, I think it is underestimating Norwegian municipalities and Norwegian local politicians. The working party, and as far as SV is concerned, is trying to make the discussion of whether to give greater weight to local discretion and discretion, to a question of changing municipal economy. However, if the Workers' Party agreed to such a proposal, as is suggested, with a significantly strengthened municipal economy, it would obviously be in favour of reducing the local discretion if the local economy were to be weakened. It's a little principleal approach, which I think fits the Workers' Party badly. I stand for what I said in my statement that the Labour Party through this shows little confidence in the decisions that our local people elected and the municipalities make. Løvaas also says that if a municipality gets a state decision against it, it is much better to argue politically than to meet the state in court. Well, a lot of people in this country can actually take the state to court if you think that a state decision is wrong and justified by incorrect interpretation of the law, but Norwegian municipalities cannot. I think it remains for the Workers' Party to justify why Norwegian municipalities should be cut off from the possibility of such a dispute resolution in order to clarify the correct interpretation of the law with the State, and must go to Stortinget to ask for, and in a way hope for, the right thing. It's not safe for the state to have the right in every legal interpretation. In fact, it may be useful to have case law in place, and the state may have to adjust the law if it is judged on a case-by-case basis. I do not think the Labour Party on any of these points has demonstrated why they believe that local self-government with their policies will become stronger. On the contrary, we are now adopting policies to strengthen local self-government, and the Labour Party is voting against it. It doesn't help that Løvaas sits up, I write more in the account for, as they say, that when you have weak arguments, the voice is raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2005	The representative Karin Andersen is concerned about the municipal economy in Åsnes. Let me then just show that the real growth per capita in Åsnes was 1.8 pst. from 2013 to 2016, while it was only 0,9 pst. when SV was in government. So also Åsnes has had a stronger growth in his local economy with civil cooperation. The representative, Karin Andersen, also addresses the issue of monitoring the legality and control of free discretion and points out in the Nou 2004 recommendation:18 The whole range of social and health services, i.e. the Bernt Committee. The NOU was followed up by the red-green government in 2010/2011 through the treatment of Prop. 91 L for 2010–2011, on new health and care services law. There was a comprehensive assessment of complaint and supervisory arrangements. It was thoroughly investigated. So the questions that the representative from SV has been particularly concerned about, we believe were well investigated and evaluated when SV put in government. Let me also, at the end of the day, say that for us it is important to balance the consideration of individual rights with regard to local self-government. I believe we have found a good balance in this by now giving the municipalities the opportunity to go to court with the state, by saying that there should be a great deal of emphasis on local self-government, but at the same time making it clear that private individuals who have been granted a service or a benefit under the central welfare laws should not be affected by the proposal. This also means that although the Court considers that the decision of the State is invalid, the service cannot be taken from private sources for that reason. In this way, we have taken care of local self-government while not affecting individual rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2014	I record that the representative Jensen continues to talk about the Workers' Party's principle approach. It's interesting, because the example shines strongly, how little principal representative Jensen and his party themselves are when it comes to listening to or rejecting local discretion. There can be no particular doubt that when it comes to this, there is not much credibility left in the government. There are some examples of this. I am not actually raising myself, but it must be allowed and possible to point out the gross misstatement of the matter by the representative Jensen. This is about democracy, it is about local democracy. I have the greatest respect for the courts in Norway, but they have a lot to do from before. We have heard that from the government parties on previous occasions – then it was a great burden when it came to citizenship. Then there was no way of how heavy a burden the courts had. Now, a few weeks later, it's not a problem. Things obviously change. I would rather for a State Council from the Right or the Advance Party – it did a little bad to say that – to settle conflicts between the State and the Municipality within the framework that Stortinget has given, rather than for a district court judge to do so. Then, rather, the Storting or – at the end of the day – the voters get involved if they disagree with the decisions and choices that are made. First chance comes in September.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2023	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2039	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2048	Parents and persons with disabilities currently have a statutory right to participate in municipalities and county councils. The provisions are governed by separate laws administered by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the case of older persons and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality in the case of disabled persons. A Council scheme for young people has not been given equivalent legislation, but 90 pst. by the municipalities, on a voluntary basis, the establishment of youth councils or the municipal board of young people. The proposal for amendments to the legal basis of the participation bodies we are dealing with today is presented in a consultation note prepared by the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. The proposal sent at the hearing was that the provisions on participation bodies be brought together in the Municipal Act. It was proposed to continue the provisions on statutory councils for the elderly and advice for persons with disabilities, while not recommending the legislative adoption of the Youth Council. Today’s provisions provide for the organisation of elderly people’s councils and advice for people with disabilities as a joint council. The bill goes in to continue this, to which many of the hearing bodies are negative. The consultation round showed that a majority, 179 of 235 consultation bodies, supported the proposal for a common provision of the Local Government Act combined with regulations for each scheme. A minority wish to maintain the current specific legislation and justify the fact that the change may impair the rights of the elderly and disabled. A majority of those who have expressed their views believe that the Youth Council scheme should also be regulated. This was also a hearing case in 2013, and then it was in 80 pst. of hearing replies expressed a wish for legislative adoption. The Committee unanimously supports the merger of the legal regulation of participation bodies for the elderly, disabled and young people in a separate legislative provision of the municipal law. We believe that this does not weaken the rights of those who have been subject to special legislation. Regulations must be drawn up for the individual bodies involved and must be made in such a way as to meet the specific needs of the individual groups. The majority of the Committee considers that elderly people’s councils and advice for people with disabilities should preferably be set up as separate advice. The challenges and measures for the elderly and disabled should not be treated as two sides of the same issue, but as the need for involvement and contact with the authorities of different groups. Nevertheless, in the view of the majority, exemptions should be provided for in order to establish common advice at the request of the user groups and local authorities. The majority of the Committee considers that a new provision of the Local Council Act on participation should also include a provision on the statutory right to participate in youth. Most hearing bodies want such legislation. It is also important that young people do not have the right to vote. The community is served by children and young people engaging, taking responsibility, participating and being heard. This is so important that it should not be up to the individual municipality, or ‘adults’, as the ministry mentions, to grant access to participation. The rules to be drawn up for the individual bodies involved shall lay down the types of action to be referred to them and the manner in which decisions and proposals of the Councils are to be made for the political direction of the municipalities and counties. It is important that the regulations are not drawn up in detail and restrictively. Municipalities and county councils need to be given room to give their own guidelines that give advice an expanded role, for example: budgetary resources for distribution, speech and proposal rights in meetings of the local or county councils, etc., as is often the case today. In particular, in the case of the youth participation body, the Committee asks that the State provisions not become too restrictive. We know that the way in which the participation body for young people is organized today varies from municipality to municipality. Many municipalities have established schemes that have increased social interest and wanted to participate in policy-making processes in young people in the municipality. It is necessary to develop regulations that are based on this. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2076	I take the floor because the Labour Party in the event of an incurrency is included in the following remark: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Left, consider that seniority councils and advice for persons with disabilities should preferably be set up as separate councils. The challenges and measures for the elderly and persons with disabilities should not be treated as two aspects of the same issue, but as the need for involvement and contact with the authorities of different groups. However, as proposed by the Ministry, derogations should be provided for in order to establish joint advice where the user groups and the municipalities so wish.» We agree with the principle. We disagree that the municipalities here are going to be able to make exceptions, precisely on the basis of the reasons put forward here. So we don't mean what's in the comment that we know about an incurrency. Instead, we will support proposal No. 2, from Christian People's Party and SV, where ‘provides the Government with proposals to legislate that the Board of Senior Officials and advice for persons with disabilities cannot be merged’. As far as the Youth Council is concerned, I refer to the proposal the Labour Party has been involved in promoting in the past, which has been dealt with in this matter. We believe that the Youth Council should also be legalised in the municipalities and county municipalities. It is a little strange to note the very fundamental resistance of the Right and the Progress Party to the Youth Council, while the government in another matter we have to deal with here in the Stortinget this spring, proposes to legislate the County Councils Regional Plan Forum. Regional planners are important bodies, but it is strange that it should weigh more than involving young people in political work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2093	All citizens shall have the opportunity to participate and be heard in matters relating to them directly or that are important in society. This also applies to municipal issues relating to the design of municipal services, planning and social development. Many social groups are often under-represented in elected bodies, or special interests that are important to care for are older people, people with disabilities or young people. For the right, it is important to facilitate the involvement of all these groups in matters relating to their living conditions. In this context, we are talking about the organised involvement, where the municipality establishes its own advice that provides disabled elderly people, or for some young people, the possibility of formalised and organised interaction with the municipality. The issue we are dealing with today is essentially about making it easier for the municipalities and county councils, and for the councils, to manage these bodies – greater predictability, easier to know how to design the rules, etc. A new general rule will be introduced to replace the provisions of specific legislation on advice for the elderly and persons with disabilities. So these councils have been statutory for a long time, and they're well-informed, but it's not in itself good enough to introduce new legal orders to the municipalities to set up advice, be it youth councils or other councils. A proposal on the legalisation of the Youth Council was voted down in this room in 2015, and nothing has changed in the matter since then. However, the government's proposals that are being discussed today are important, because it is stated that the municipalities and county councils that have youth councils or other forms of youth participation – it has basically almost everyone, I think it was 90 p.m., according to the case-rapporteur, and they have got it without legislation – have to follow the same system in the law that applies to the other councils. It is a majority of the committee that proposes to introduce a statutory obligation to set up the Youth Council, and I would like to mention proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advances and the Left, as an alternative to the motion for a resolution I. The question here is not whether we believe that the interests of children and young people should be taken care of or heard – of course children and young people should have the opportunity to be heard and to address matters themselves. The question is first and foremost whether we trust that good solutions can be found locally, without the national parliament having to oblige the municipalities to establish such a system. Of course, there is also a more general question that can be raised, namely whether the parties behind the proposal for the law-making of the Youth Council, also consider the law-making of more and more advice for other groups who believe that one should have a advice, will be the right way to go when they come and ask. As I said, there are many other groups who could envisage such schemes. Where will you put the limit? In the case of youth councils, they all, most municipalities and county councils, have some form of youth assistance without being adopted in the form of the law. Where there is no formalized system, it is often the case that young people are invited to other forms of consultation. Young people can also be represented in ordinary municipal selections and have the opportunity to present cases to local authorities. This, therefore, varies across different communities, and it has worked well without legislation. In the right, we think it's going to work well on as well. That's a lot we don't like, but we don't prohibit for that reason. Similarly, there's a lot we like very much, but we don't have to ask. Youth councils fall into the last category. Right does not choose to walk the path of lawmaking, because we have confidence in communities and municipalities, trust they have already proved worthy. At the same time, it is important that youth councils operate as well as possible where one chooses to have it, and today there are great variations. That's why it's very good that we now have our own guidelines that will apply to youth councils where you have them, similar to those that will apply to elderly councils and people with disabilities. Furthermore, in the setting, there are slightly different views of guides for the design of regulations and rules for the municipal councils. A majority of the Committee proposes that Councils should be given specific extended roles, including the right to speak and to make proposals within the local council. From the right, we think the leaders described by the department are reasonable in order to achieve some of the things that are meant to be done, namely to make it clearer and easier for the municipalities which rules should actually apply. Secondly, we believe that a municipality should not be able to grant greater rights to special groups in breach of the provisions of the Local Council Act on the right to speak and to meet, which is also explicitly mentioned in the proposal. In short, we believe that the proposal for a new provision of the Local Government Act on participation schemes, with the regulations that will come, will help us to put in place satisfactory legislation. Then it would be unfortunate if, as the first step on this path, we were to help the Storting erode – I think – a bit of the whole idea of the proposal. That is why the Right – and I will also notify it on behalf of the Advance Party – wants to vote against item B of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2118	The representative Frank J. Jensen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2123	Good and representative involvement of citizens in municipal and county decision-making processes is very important for our democracy and to ensure quality that all relevant considerations come on the table. We therefore support the proposal to provide the elderly council and advice for people with disabilities under the municipal law and through regulations. My party is also of the opinion that there should be separate advice and does not agree that in any case there can be one advice. These are people with completely different challenges and in completely different stages of life. The Christian People's Party believes, as we did the last time this case was up, that a new provision of the municipal law must also contain a statutory right to youth participation. It can be through youth councils or in another way, for example: through the municipal administration of young people, which performs statutory and regulatory roles and functions. Youth participation and participation in decisions are important. They have the shoes, they live in today's society in their way, they have their reality and their perception, and therefore such a council will also have an important function as democratic training. Around the country, many well-functioning youth councils are already organised in a slightly different way. Although it works well in many municipalities today, it is important to formalise both for the authority and to ensure that all municipalities have such an arena where the youth’s voice is heard in all relevant matters. Older and adult people with disabilities are eligible in the ordinary democratic system. Young people under the age of 18 are not, so to put it a little bit on the verge, we can say that the need is actually greater for a participation venue for young people. But the Christian People's Party does not follow the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Left in that the municipalities can go so far as to give the councils an expanded role that they are given the right to speak and meet in the county and municipal councils. That is what we believe is eroding and weakening the role of the elected representatives, who have just been elected to represent the entire population. And as the representative Jensen suggested in his statement, there may be several other groups who would claim the same right. That these advices, which I have already mentioned, have the right to speak in matters that are particularly relevant to them, are Christian People's Party for. With this I address the proposal of which the Christian People's Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2140	The representative Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2145	Advice for the elderly, young people and people with disabilities is an important support in our local democracy. They contribute with unique expertise, the view of experience that may be far from the smooth rapporteur or the rapporteur-general. All are those groups with special needs, but also with special opportunities to contribute to our communities. The Board of Elders brings with it an experience base and a built-in knowledge. It is an enrichment for all local governments and ensures a dignified and proper treatment of the generations that have built the communities we now all enjoy living in. Counsel for people with disabilities is similar to an essential role for local government. People with disabilities are the world's largest minority and also the minority of which we can all be a part. This is a heterogeneous group that has in common a disability that makes them need a society that is organised so that they can function in the same way as their fellow citizens. It's not always as easy to get involved in that group's realities. That's why these advices are as important as bodies. We all win on a society that is more universally designed, where people with disabilities can participate as much as possible in society in the same way as everyone else. Their creativity, creativity, and understanding of life from a different point of view are enriching to all of us. Youth councils perform a similar function as advice for the elderly and disabled. At the same time, it is an important body to give young people an introduction to politics and the role of elected representatives. As such, the Youth Councils are democratical and interested in one body. Since the youth councils first got on the field, they have spread around the country, and over 90 pst. of Norway’s municipalities today benefit from being associated and having a youth council. How youth councils are linked to the municipality is currently up to each municipality. More and more municipalities are experimenting with giving the Youth Councils the right to speak and meet, all in recognition of the fact that we are all winning increased political participation from the youth of the country. For the Left, it is important that municipalities are also allowed to decide in the future even if they wish to set up a youth council. This is not because the youth council is not important, but because the vast majority of municipalities already have such advice, and because there are other ways to include young people in the policy. There is every reason to encourage young people to participate in politics, but we believe that it does not serve the purpose of forcing a formal formula down the country's municipalities. Should we have done that, it would more and more erod the local democracy we think young people should engage in. At the same time, we will not prescribe to the municipalities how to involve the youth councils. If you think it's useful to give them the right to speak and propose, it's very good. If you think there are other and better ways, yes, there must also be room for that. In this room it is always tempting to adopt laws and regulations. The intentions are always the best, but it is often the case that decisions we discuss are best made locally. It is the right of self-determination that I have defended earlier today. I defend the right of community to decide about their own everyday lives, because it can't be that we can legislate everything we like or dislike. Then I think we've gone wrong. Finally, I would like to say about proposal No. 2, which has been promoted on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party, that the Left will not support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2162	There is a need to extend democracy and to ensure that more people can participate in local democracy. For this reason, the SV is to have local advice, both for the elderly, for people with disabilities and also for youth councils. Young people aren't just futures, they're forever, and maybe also those who are most affected by decisions taken in the municipalities. Now it is quite right that most municipalities have different forms of participation for young people, and that should be said to ensure that this was an opportunity in all municipalities. So whoever wants to expand democracy, and listen to those who are going to live with the decisions that are being taken, for many years, should vote in order that the Youth Council also becomes a mandatory arrangement in all the municipalities. There should also be a majority in order to ensure that the bodies that are set up are entitled to both information and the possibility to make their views valid, not only on paper and the type of participation where a hearing opinion can be submitted or perhaps say what is meant, but where access to the decision-making process is available at a time when it is possible to have influence. This would strengthen democracy. SV wants us to also legislate for municipalities to have youth councils. It's a shame we don't get to do it now, and I honestly don't understand the principleal counter-representations that come up against this, what's different with youth councils than with advice for the elderly, for example. In the case of advice for the elderly and for people with disabilities, it also opens up for them to be merged, and some municipalities have done so. There's an SV strongly disagreed with. It's very good to have the elderly council, there's a lot of reality among the elderly as well. It is also where a great variety of interests exist that older people have, from the most widespread to the most ill, from the most active to those who feel that they no longer have a place in society. There's definitely a wide range of things there as well. But people with disabilities can be at all ages, and there are completely different interests and needs of a youth aged 18-20, such as young people. is blind or dependent on wheelchairs, than an older person has. So it's going to be completely wrong to say that these two advices should be able to merge. I am absolutely sure that if there are people who are struggling to find representation for these advice – and I have heard that someone has said that it can be in some municipalities – then it is just a point for that municipality to make a little effort to find those people, because then they are few and alone and really need to be heard in the municipal and local processes. I am very concerned that it will not be opened for such aggregation. I am pleased that during the debate the Labour Party has said that they also support this proposal. It's necessary and okay, and it indicates that it's going to be possible to fix this after the next election.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2177	Let me first thank the committee for a thorough and good treatment. It is important that young people, older people and people with disabilities are involved in the activities of municipalities and are given the opportunity to participate in local democracy. These are groups that are often underrepresented in elected bodies. The government therefore wants these to be heard in matters relating to their living conditions. Today, the elderly and people with disabilities have a statutory right to participation. Under the law in force, it is not a legal requirement for municipalities to have a youth council. However, the most common thing today is that municipalities have either a youth council or a child and the municipal government of young people. At the last screening in 2016 had at least 90 pst. by municipalities, a representation scheme for young people. It is good to say that all municipalities have a form of youth participation. However, there has been a great deal of uncertainty and disparity in the practice of youth participation schemes. I believe that this suggests that we should have a uniform regulatory framework for this participation scheme as well. The Government therefore promotes a legislative proposal aimed at ensuring equal rules and making it easier for municipalities and county councils to manage participation schemes. The Government proposes a new general provision for advice in municipalities and county councils for older people, persons with disabilities and young people. Additional rules for each scheme are laid down in the Regulation. I think it is appropriate to bring together the rules on municipal organisation in the municipal law, instead of regulating different participation schemes in specific laws, administered by different departments. The basic rules for the organisation of participation bodies should be the same, but so that each scheme is adapted to the different groups. It is the government's principle view that it should be up to the individual municipality to decide what advice and selection it wishes to have. We have also stressed this when we have worked on this proposal. It is necessary to limit the imposition on municipalities of several permanent bodies and new tasks. I see, however, that the arrangements for elderly people and advice for people with disabilities have been so incorporated, that we propose that these schemes be continued as compulsory schemes in the municipal law. However, when we do not propose to legislate a requirement that municipalities have to have a system of youth participation, it is because we trust that people elected in municipalities and county councils see the need to involve young people in local processes and that they listen to their opinions on matters related to the living conditions of young people. In any case, the new legislation will make it easy for municipalities and youth councils to practice and facilitate good schemes that allow young people to participate in local processes. With the regulation of youth participation that we are now proposing, the government believes Norway is also following up our international commitments. The participation of children and young people in Norway is regulated by a number of provisions of special legislation and is a horizontal principle of administrative and action practices in relation to children. The proposed youth participation scheme will strengthen youth participation and is included as one of several existing actions to support this principle. With regard to the desire of more than one person not to be allowed to establish joint advice for the elderly and disabled, it is important for me to stress that this should only be an opportunity for municipalities in cases where it is difficult or impossible to establish separate advice. The general rule is that two separate advice should be established — one for each of these groups. The councils of young people, the elderly and persons with disabilities shall have the right to advise elected bodies on matters relating to their living conditions. There is a continuation of the current right. I remind you that the background to this legislative project is to simplify and clarify the legislation for participation schemes. Therefore, we cannot at the same time open the way for municipalities to provide guidelines that undermine the legal provisions we are to adopt today and the regulations that will be given later for each participation body. However, I point out that Section 39 of the Local Government Act stipulates that each local government and county council should establish a code of conduct for the councils. It provides an opening for each municipality to be able to supplement the legislation relating to the councils and to provide a structure and organisation adapted to local conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2193	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2198	The majority of the Committee proposes that the youth participation body be statutoryised, with the broad support of the youth's own stakeholder organisations. At the same time, it is stressed that the regulations to be drawn up must not become too restrictive in terms of the freedom of local authorities and counties to organise the bodies involved. The Ministry itself writes in the proposition: ‘For the Ministry, it is important that municipalities and county councils should be able to choose the best-suited scheme according to local circumstances, and it is desirable to continue the flexibility they have today.’ As is the case today, many municipalities have chosen to give the youth council or the municipal council the opportunity to meet in local government/administration, they have the right to speak and propose, responsibility for the distribution of budgetary resources, etc. Will the Council of State contribute to the provision of room for local adaptations so that the regulation does not prevent such practices from continuing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2208	I explained it in my post, where I, among other things, Stressed that an important purpose of this proposition is to simplify and clarify the legislation on participation schemes. At the same time, it is not possible to adopt regulations that erode what is the main objective, namely to clarify and simplify legislation. However, as I also pointed out, Section 39 of the Local Government Act states that local government and county councils should make regulations for the councils, and that gives some flexibility in this. With regard to the issue of the right to speak and to put forward proposals, I would like to stress that we in Norway have a representative democracy, and then it is the elected representatives who have the right to meet and to make proposals. But of course it is up to the individual local government to invite groups or individuals to clarify specific matters, and I think that is a scheme that several local authorities should be able to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2215	To the last answer, it is a little unclear whether clarifying and simplifying is contrary to making clear recommendations on the right to speak and propose, especially after the Council of State itself mentions it in very positive terms as a good order. But I'm a little uncertain about the government's desire to get more participation for young people, because in this case, we have not been able to pass the law that all municipalities should have a youth council. In the municipal bill, they have also refused to continue voting for 16-year-olds, the attempt that has been there. It is a system that, in my view, and after the evaluation, has worked well. It is not very different from other age groups — but it should be lacking. After all, we don't demand from other age groups that, in order to have the right to vote, they suddenly become very politically active, vote in each election, or such things. So the question is, can the Council of State point out, in any area, that the government has promoted increased participation for young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2222	I believe that we are doing this through the legislative proposal that is being dealt with today, but where the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government obviously disagree, it is whether this has to be done by law. Today has about 90 pst. of the municipalities and county councils a participation scheme, and through the law we now get in place, we make it easy and transparent for those municipalities that want to set up such a sample, as we also recommend, because it is important to include youth. But we don't see any reason to go through a legal requirement for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2227	It is difficult to obtain the reasons — other than the fact that the elderly and the advice for the disabled have already been established — and that this has been incorporated. However, if young people want to participate more, it is a real and genuine desire, it is very difficult to understand why it should not be regulated in the same way as the elderly council and advice for people with disabilities when – point 1 – is very many municipalities that have it. The need is therefore recognised and will not conflict with any local wishes. And point 2: The young person who lives in a municipality that has not established such an opportunity will need the same type of participation body as young people in other municipalities. So it's very strange that you don't want to guarantee young people in all municipalities the same right and ability to participate as it is for the elderly and for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2234	I believe that it is important that advice for both the disabled and the elderly has been incorporated over a long period of time, and then the question is whether another advice should be given to the municipalities. The law we now get in place regulates youth councils, advice for the elderly and for the disabled in the same way, but the difference is that we do not oblige municipalities to have a youth council. I trust that local politicians – from both SV and Right – see the value of having the municipal government of young people or a youth council and have a role to play, which means that young people are heard in matters that are important to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2239	I would think there was a greater need to legislate a piece of advice that has not been transposed, than to legislate a piece of advice that has been incorporated and that municipalities have experience in, and where there are established schemes that have worked for a long time. I don't think the argument holds at all. If you are committed to increasing democracy and, in particular, increasing the opportunities for young people to influence, you should be concerned with those young people in those municipalities where this need is not recognised, and ensure that they also get it in line with other groups. I am not able to hear a single fundamental argument that it should not be regulated for this group, in line with other groups that are now getting their rights regulated by this law. It is good that the law contains a template for how it should be done, if it is done, but the next step should also be realized by the Council of State that it is necessary to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2244	We represent different parties, and that is probably a bit of the reason why we do not agree on this matter either. There is almost no area that SV does not believe is the basis for regulating or otherwise controlling. We believe that in this area we need to trust the municipalities and county councils, and we see that 90 pst. they have a form of participation. I think that's good, and with this bill, we're making it easier for the last ten percent to do this, based on a genuine commitment to listening to youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2249	So the line change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2267	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the rapporteur, 5 minutes to the main speakers for each of the other party groups and 5 minutes to the members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2276	This is a major and important issue that concerns very many people in our country and their housing situation and everyday life, as well as the business that owns food sections. I would like to thank you for the active efforts of very many actors during the hearing and during the work of the Committee. This applies to the Landsförbund, NBBL – Norske Boligbygelag – OBS, Leieboerforeningen and NHO Reiseliv. Oslo City Council and the City Council have also contributed, and so have the Services Centres of the Housing Companies, the Houses of the Districts, the Alna Urban Committee, the City of the Mountains, the Grorud District, the Stovs Well, the Vessli Well and many communities who have engaged, and who have tens of thousands of people in their backs. We have also received very heavy professional input from lawyers, among others. amanuensis Gert-Fredrik Malt at the Institute for Private Law at the Faculty of Law, the University of Oslo, which has been working on these questions for many years. It is a complicated matter, and I would also like to thank you for the thorough work done by the Committee Secretary, the Committee's working committee secretary and the General Secretariat, who has been very good at contributing to the accuracy and diligence of the position on all possible technical and formal legal issues. The process began with the establishment of the Wyller Committee in June 2013 to work on an assessment of the law on ownership. They prepared a NOU, which was then sent out to the hearing. It contained proposals for amendments to the existing law and the consultation took place in the autumn of 2014 until December 2014. The Ministry then decided that there was a need to write throughout the law, so that it would become a new law, instead of making changes to the current law of 1997. The Committee supports this, but is also aware that since the new law has been passed in the Ministry after the hearing and has not been consulted, the quality assurance provided by a hearing has not been obtained. This means that in the Committee, through hearings and here on the Stortinget, there has been a laborious effort to go through all paragraphs, etc., listening to the input and making sure that the details of the design of the law are correct – even on many points where there has been little political attention in any way. We have also received a letter of formal notice from the Council of State with a number of points that have been included in the legal setting. There are many concrete things that are important for the everyday lives of people who have been solved along the way by a eventually unanimous committee. For example, I can. mention a new legal framework to establish charging points for electric cars and chargeable hybrids in the joint ventures, a revised wording on animal husbandry, because the legislative proposal at that point could be suitable for creating misunderstandings, and the introduction of procedural deadlines for dealing with compartmentalisation cases in the municipalities – there is agreement, but the committee has decided in the configuration to set the deadline to twelve instead of eight weeks, which was proposed, in order to be realistic. There is agreement on a link between the Ownership Act and the Planning and Building Act that the Ministry has set up, so that a utility unit can only be compartmentalised if it is simultaneously approved under the Planning and Building Act. A minority is in favour of common areas in the joint. There is also agreement on some practical things that were taken up during the hearing, which are more important than we might believe here in the Storting. For example, the responsibility for the closure of bathrooms should not be transferred to each section, as the legislative proposal suggested, but, at the Committee's discretion, still rests with the community, in view of the fact that negligence on the part of the individual could otherwise seriously affect other residents in a very unfortunate way. The Committee is also in favour of amending the proposal to require the consent of all section owners for measures that are ‘particularly intrusive or important’ because, in the opinion of the Committee and in the light of what was said at the hearing, it could create many new conflicts. We therefore propose to maintain the current legal wording that consent is required from all section owners when there are measures that result in a significant change in the nature of the joint venture. It is also the case that a Joint Committee does not support what the Ministry initially provided for the limitation of the possibility of a statutory period of use of common land for up to 10 years. The Committee considered this to be too short and too flexible and amended unanimously to allow the duration of the statutory rights of use of common areas to be 30 years. A simple majority of the Committee opposes the requirement for a mortgage per unit of use not to exceed 1 G in the public interest, and is in place of setting this at twice the basic amount of the public interest, so as to be able to finance major refurbishment and maintenance projects. A majority of the Committee is in favour of retaining the right to purchase the lessee when a dwelling is compartmentalised, so that it can continue to be a means of giving more people the opportunity to own their own dwellings. There are also a number of other things that are modified by a large majority of the Committee, such as the desire to maintain the current system as regards the possibility of compartmentalising tourist facilities, and the fact that 21 sections should be the limit on requiring auditors, instead of 9 sections, which were proposed. There is one issue that has been a great deal of commitment since the hearing in 2014, and that is about the hyblicisation, as the committee calls it in the call, i.e. conversion of residential sections to e.g. five to six cabins, where there can often be two residents on each cabin and there are very many in one apartment that was previously a family apartment, or buying up owner sections of dwellings that are only used for hotel-like short-term rentals throughout the year, without any use by those who have bought the sections themselves. Here are the Landsförbund, NBBL, Leieboerforeningen, OBOS, NHO Reiseliv and many others, among others. the communities concerned, engaged to a large extent and agreed on proposals for, inter alia: can distinguish between the use of apartments for purely commercial purposes and the real and reasonable sharing economy associated with rentals for holiday stays, work trips, etc. In order for these questions to be addressed under the work of the Ministry and the Council of State on the proposition we are dealing with here today, I began to raise the issue of the issue in Stortinget as early as January 2015, and I was involved in a proposal for a representative on what was promoted in 2015 and discussed in June 2016. Both times the answer was that you would come back to the question. It is also the approach of the minority in the Committee, which proposes that the ministry should assess the issue and come back to the Stortinget with proposals. We'll see if there'll be a majority in the Stortinget for that later today. A majority of the Committee shall promote concrete proposals in these areas. The Committee agrees on good comments on these issues, which shows that there is a clear understanding of a broad majority of the parties in the Storting for these issues and that we need to take them seriously. We who live in these parts of Oslo experience – we also get similar messages from the rest of the country – that this is where we now get the biggest social challenges, because the identification with our own living environment, and the responsibility for our own living environment, is resolved to a greater or lesser extent when a large number of tenants are constantly, or at least constantly, on the way out and not having a close relationship with their living environment. This is really about the Norwegian housing model: we know that owning a dwelling and living there permanently creates an identification and a responsibility for the local environment that means a lot to the development of these areas. We are primarily promoting our proposals, so that we do not have to wait to see if it is possible to do something about these things for all the people who are engaged. If the majority vote by the Committee were to fall later this evening, we would vote in favour of the proposal No. 2 and 4 and B in the setting, which assumes that the Stortinget asks the government to come back with assessments and suggestions on the problems that the setting deals with in-depth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2312	The representative Jan Bøhler has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2317	We're still living and living tighter. A main objective of the Ownership Act is to balance the individual’s right of disposal over his own property with the need of a neighbor to live his or her life in the desired way in the apartment next door. This law concerns many. Nearly 50,000 properties are compartmentalised. In Norway, there are almost 350 000 housing sections in the same area and close to 40000 economic sections. A large and significant effort has been made over a long period of time to develop a law to ensure the best possible level of ownership of individuals, to promote good living conditions and at the same time to take account of public needs. The law shall apply to all aspects of sections and to all types of sections. This width has widened the legislative process, because there are differences between the issues of old and new cohabitants, for large urban centres where land density is high, and less common to more liberal common areas. And there are different conditions that are to be regulated for business parties, dorms and typical cottage parties. At the same time, social developments continue. As the rapporteur mentioned, it is four years since the Wyller Committee was set up. During these years, two major developments affecting the housing situation and legislation have taken place: the number of cars requiring electric charging points has doubled, and Airbnb rentals have taken off. These are matters on which the Committee under the firm leadership of the rapporteur has spent time, and there are circumstances that are likely to create the need for further changes in housing regulation in the future. In particular, there is broad political agreement to support the Ministry's proposals for direction and conclusions. With today's treatment, we get a law that is easier to deal with than before, and a law that reduces society's use of resources. In some areas of the vote, the committee has been divided, and I include this in the vote on the motion for a resolution where the right is included as the author of the motion for a resolution. Let me also link a couple of comments to some of the points where there's some disagreement. Today, tenants have the right to pre-buy dwellings with a discount on properties to be compartmentalised. While we had rent regulation, there could be good social arguments for such a right. On the right, the Ministry considers that this right of pre-emption today has a negative rather than a positive social impact. With today's pre-purchase right, a farm that plans to section a property will have rational economic reasons to cancel a lease in good time before the compartmentalisation. It does not strengthen the lessee's ability to continue the tenancy relationship through and after a sectioning process. For the housing environment, neighbouring conditions and a fair distribution of common costs, there may be a challenge whether some housing sections are heavily used for short-term rental or are divided into several compartments. Not least, the development of Airbnb creates a natural disturbance around the joint. On the right, we are committed to carrying out a thorough assessment of these challenges and getting back to the Stortinget a thoughtful legislative proposal. We therefore do not promote specific legislative proposals in this area, but ask the Ministry to come back with proposals for solutions. Then, in the Right, we are sincerely surprised that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have proposed to remove the proposal for limits for which a majority in a community can impose a minority. I do not envy the minimum pensioner or the newly-introduced infant couple to receive an economic burden that is difficult for them to bear, from a majority of the community – even if the purpose of the cost is based on the statutes of the community. Here it seems as if several parties have forgotten that the starting point for the law is the individual commoner, not the same. Fortunately, a majority supports the government's proposal to set a maximum limit of 0.5 G per section, unless all joint members expressly agree to support the measure. Finally, some words about charging points for electric vehicle. Today, the sales share of new passenger cars with a need for charging points is approximately. 50 pst. The government proposes that by 2025 all newly registered passenger cars should be a zero-emission vehicle. It goes without saying that the effort to establish a sufficient number of electrical charging points in dwellings needs to be stepped up. Without such an escalation, much of the environmental impact of providing tax relief for the purchase and use of electric cars will be lost. The danger that chargeable hybrids will be driven mainly on fossil fuels will also be great. For this reason, a joint committee has adopted a legislative text requiring the joint boards to refuse the setting-up of loading points on common areas only if they have a factual basis. At the same time, it is a crystal clear premise to give this right to each section owner that the costs should be borne by the individual. This is, therefore, an opening for private environmental initiatives from the individual communities. Of course, it would be far more important that, in the future, as many as possible co-exist in finding good and safe joint solutions for charging points in them, that it becomes a matter of course by new construction that approved charging systems should be part of the project and that the relevant authorities increase their information on solutions and fire hazards.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2340	The representative Frode Helgerud has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2345	First, I would like to start by thanking the case spokesman, Jan Bøhler, for getting rid of this matter in a good way. As he himself stated, this has been a demanding matter for the committee, with many balls in the air throughout the whole process. Thank you very much for your cooperation, assistance and assistance from the Secretariat here at Stortinget and our Committee Secretaries on this matter. Simplification, renewal and red tape have been an important line for the government party throughout the entire four-year period. Changes in ownership laws have been an important part of these simplifications in the design and construction telematics we are dealing with today. The case spokesperson did well to start this case with the law selection that sorenschrift Christian Fr. Wyller leased, which delivered its statement on the revision of the Owners' Act on 18 August 2014. We have read the outline and have recorded that there are more these in the selection. We also recorded that the selection received a mixed reception in the public hearing of the NOU. The government's bill is based on this NOU, and the proposal involves a more modern, user-friendly and systematic law. The proposal extends today's rules at most points, but also contains some innovations and changes compared to the current one. The Law of 23 May 1997 on Owners' Sections is to be repealed. The committee's proceedings have been of great concern. We had heard about the case in February, and several actors put on the earring. As others have said, there was a great deal of commitment from a joint owner in the Groruddalen. Representatives from the Alna Urban Selection and the Stovner Urban Selection were critical of what was not in the proposition. Their criticisms focused on the fact that the proposition did not contain proposals for regulating the hyblicization, a new word that I had at least not heard before this hearing. It goes on short-term leases through e.g. Airbnb and the like. For the Progress Party, it has been important not to create unnecessary problems for people's property rights, so we have been careful to address comments and suggestions that point out that Airbnb and the like have been a major social problem. We would rather have a calmer approach to that problem and see more detail before we put any action in place. We don't have the same understanding of reality as the other party that there's been a big problem if people rent out their apartment. We think the sharing economy is exciting and something we shouldn't be stuck in the wheels for. In addition, we note in our ears that both the NHO and the Fauna property raised criticism of the proposal to introduce a refusal shelter against the feeding compartment of tourist facilities. Originally, the Ministry proposed to introduce such a home into the planning and building laws, and by adding a plan for planning purposes to the bill. We chose to say that we don't believe such a home would be good. We can regulate the same purpose through the ordinary planning of planning and building laws, and it can create some unintended intentions for a given municipality to veto the choice of the owner-form rather than others when it comes to tourist facilities. That's why we went against it, and we're glad that there's also a number in Stortinget against giving the municipalities the right to veto organizing ownership this way. We are going to discuss district policy later today, and if there is something that really benefits the districts, it is actually that one through the Owners' Act can raise fresh capital to develop tourist facilities in the districts. We see many examples of just having done so, and then we think it's a little strange that the Centre Party, of all people, choose to equip the municipalities with this home that can make it harder to realize important tourist facilities in the districts. Finally, Helgerud from the Right that charging point to electric cars has been part of the thematics. He did well to open up here so that one must have a real reason to say no, but we underline very clearly – and for the Progress Party it is very important – that one should not burden the community with costs of charging. The individual shareholder must stand for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2364	When we got this case on the table in the committee, I thought that this was probably a matter that was about clearing up a little bit of a legal text and making it more user-friendly. It's been a bit of an adult education, and it's been hard to get involved, but the more interesting. There has been a bit of a job, bigger than we thought, and I would like to commend the case rapporteur and the committee secretariat for assistance and input. The law is primarily a tool of private law to keep track of issues arising in connection with housing pools. At the same time, it is important to keep the tongue straight in the mouth as regards the differences between owner-in-law joint and housing stock. I would therefore like to focus my article on just a few matters. In this case, I got, and I think many with me, my eyes up to an aspect that creates significant challenges in many residential environments now and in recent times, that is, what is called hyblicization. We heard stories that 15 people, or more, could suddenly have a residence address in an apartment that was otherwise intended for a family. We could also call it the business hyblication, to be more precise. In urban areas, it is more and more common for apartments to be extensively converted for a limited number of people into huts, so that the housing unit suddenly becomes completely different. Furthermore, as short-term rental through Airbnb and the like is becoming more and more common, this may lead to increased pressures on common areas, increased noise, increased consumption of community services and increased alienation in neighbouring conditions. It is clear that a certain parking area per apartment is often calculated, but if it then lives so high a number of people in an apartment, this will also affect the parking and traffic conditions. This could probably have been dealt with more thoroughly by the government, as we believe in the Christian People's Party, because it became clear to the hearing that this is a major challenge today for many in many districts. As legislators and authorities, it is our duty to provide the good life for the inhabitants, and that not some should be allowed to use the land for their own gain, as we can have a sense of some places. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the bill to ensure a closer link between the ownership law and the planning and building law at this point, in order to avoid a sectioning of apartments that can obviously be contrary to the purpose and, not least, healthy public health. We therefore also support, far on the road with the same reason, the proposal to amend Section 23 so that no one can directly or indirectly acquire more than two housing sections in the same group. And we want to go beyond the government parties to tighten this up, by also regulating indirect acquisitions. I almost have to explain, because we have two different majority on measures that limit the problem of hybridisation. Our intention is to do something about this law now, but also to ensure that the instruments are consistent in other laws, and above all the Planning and Building Act. But we don't want to wait, because we want to give the boards in the same ones a tool they can use already now. That's our explanation for that. We think it's completely possible. In terms of short-term rental, such as Airbnb and the like, we understand the proposal to add a limit to the law already on the maximum number of days a unit can be rented out in this way, but we do have the country to support a proposal to ask the government to come back with proposals for short-term rental. This is a phenomenon that we are not at all opposed to, but which calls for clear driving rules and rules that take more into account than the free right to do with one's own things, when what you do with one's own, affects others significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2383	The Ownership Act is an important law for very many people in this country. I have noted that the law will cover over 45,000 properties that are divided into approximately 45,000 properties. 350000 owner sections. 91 pst. of the ownership sections are dwellings, the rest are food sections. It is also worth noting that we find ownership sections across the country. Correctly, it's 58 pst. of the ten largest cities in the country, but housing organised as ownership areas we find both in the countryside and in the city, in the mountains and by the sea, since many leisure homes also have this form of ownership. The aim of the Ownership Act is primarily to establish a law that helps to create a safe and predictable way of living for persons and families. The Committee has endeavoured to establish a law that creates this security. We share opinions about a lot, but we also separate layers in some areas. The possibility of short-term rental of dwellings, e.g. to tourists through Airbnb, one of the challenges that needs to be addressed better than today’s legislation provides for. Purchases of housing sections for the rental or conversion of apartments to small furniture are other challenges that need to be regulated better than we do today. Under the law of the day, it is prohibited to purchase or otherwise acquire more than two housing compartments in the same holding. This is achieved by establishing companies which are the owners of two units but which have the same owner behind several companies. The Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV, promotes a legislative formulation that prevents this by ensuring that ownership restrictions apply both directly and indirectly. Such a restriction on the possibilities of circumvention of the law was called for by a number of consultation bodies. I therefore believe that the proposal should receive broad support in the Committee, but that is not the case. The draft law of the Ministry proposes a new legal framework in the Planning and Building Act and the Ownership Act which gives municipalities the right to adopt regulatory provisions prohibiting the compartmentalisation of tourist facilities. The Ministry points out that several municipalities experience the problem of making attractive recreational dwellings in areas regulated by municipalities for tourism purposes inaccessible for renting to tourists during the high season because the dwellings are sold to individuals. The centre party, together with SV, supports the government's proposal to give municipalities the right to adopt regulatory provisions prohibiting the compartmentalisation of tourist facilities. However, the government only receives our support in this area, even though we note that the government has support for the bill, especially among many tourist communities in the districts. To the Progress Party, I have to say that this is an opportunity for the municipalities, not a legal requirement. So the municipalities themselves decide if they want to have such a ban. I think it is easy to understand the needs of municipalities in order to regulate the development of an area so that one ensures that future use is in line with the regulatory objective and the investments made by municipalities in order to build up a travel product. Unfortunately, the majority would deprive municipalities of autonomy in this area. The majority here have chosen to listen to the property industry and its need for maximum freedom. Small and large questions determine whether a housing pool is perceived as a safe dwelling, while a housing pool provides the owner with access and freedom to act over the owner’s own dwelling. As such, the form of housing pooling shall differ from the more regulated law of residence. In a section of ownership, the section owner is responsible for the maintenance of his unit of use, while the group is responsible for the common areas. The Committee shall be divided as to the extent to which the requirements which may be imposed on the individual section holidays may be imposed. The majority suggests that the level of maintenance should not exceed that which triggers a mortgage requirement for each unit of use of twice the basic amount of the public interest. It is the same level as today for housing law. The minority will maintain the current provisions. With regard to the provisions of the Act on rules for the annual meeting, the Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and SV, states that the notice should be given in writing. The Ministry considers that written notices may also be considered as protected by electronic communications. We do not agree with that. If a majority accepts an electronic call, it may be implemented, but in such a way that those who do not consent are entitled to a written call. There are many who have neither access to nor familiarity with the use of computers, and they need to be provided with the necessary information on paper. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2408	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2413	I am pleased with the main features of the proposals for the amendment of the Ownership Act, which the government has now submitted. I am also confident that, through a thorough committee procedure, we have been able to strengthen the proposals further. I would not least like to congratulate the rapporteur, who has led a thorough process around this matter. In the Committee's proceedings, the majority of the Committee pointed out the importance of making legislative changes that take into account, respectively, the increased use of short-term rental through services such as Airbnb, but also measures that could enable joint ventures to deal with hybridisation, where it would occur. In the course of the hearing, we have heard a number of organisations call for a time limit for short-term rental of own flats in the same area. The left believes that such a time limit is an important measure to counter the spillage of the community in the joint venture, and that ever-new tenants create a low-security community, where one no longer knows who lives in the neighbouring apartment. A time limit will counteract this. In several of the country's major cities, the level of hybridisation has proved to be a major challenge. However, this is not a national challenge and, as such, it would not have been right to make national laws to combat hyblication. The left has been committed to providing the same tools to stop the hyblicization in its own co-operatives if you would consider this a challenge. We want to give them the opportunity to limit the number of tenants in each owner's section, the use of ownership sections beyond their original purpose and to control the number of owner's sections for rental. This is an unbureaucratic solution that strengthens the right of self-determination in a community, without compromising the communities where residents themselves add up to a hyblicization. I believe that this is an important step towards countering the disadvantages caused by hyblication and short-term rental, but I realise that it must be anchored by a comprehensive bill that looks at both the planning and building law and the ownership law. That is why I am pleased that the majority of the committee has joined a request decision asking the government to come back to the Storting with just such a proposal. The Ownership Act shall be updated and strengthened, but not red tape. That's why it's been important for us to add up to a solution that shifts power down and out, while at the same time providing for strong instruments where it should be necessary. The treatment of the Ownership Act has once again shown that the Left delivers good and forward-looking policies, based on cooperation with the government parties and the Christian People's Party. The result is a better law on ownership, with units that become master of their own everyday life to a greater extent than before. In the event of an incurrency, it appears that the Left shall vote against the fourth paragraph of Section 62. We will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2427	I would also like to thank the rapporteur and the secretariat. It has been a very complicated and demanding matter. It also affects many, and it directly addresses one of the major challenges facing society, namely the lack of housing in key areas and a massive price increase. It is the main issue of the SV in this case that we agree with the Labour Party and a majority in the Committee on several points, but unfortunately not a majority in the Chamber. I'm going to go into it a little bit, but first I'm going to say thank you to the committee, which has joined the SV's proposal that we also have to regulate opportunities to install electric car charging points in this law. We are very happy to have had a positive impact on it, and we also hear that more people now realize that it needs to be in place in many places. But one of the main problems here is probably that new stations are needed in many places when this need is to be met. This will apply to both housing and ownership, and solutions need to be found to meet this need. So to this thing with the hybridization, Airbnb and the use of dwellings that are regulated for housing, for industry. That's the main problem. It's not a new problem, it's been taken up for years. The rapporteur has also done so, Mr SV has done so, and we have waited patiently for the government's proposal, which unfortunately does not solve this. The problem is that this happens, and the hearing in the committee gave a very clear picture of how this destroys the living environment of people who have this as their home. We also know that this is a huge price driver, where professional owners can buy more shares and rent them out, either by hyblicating – that is, dividing units up so that the burden on joint installations becomes too great, not to mention the destruction of the living environment for those living there – or by buying more such units and renting them out as pure Airbnb, i.e. a hotel. When it is permitted that apartments that are built as apartments and that are intended to meet the housing needs of those who need a dwelling in this city and in other cities are used as hotels, it is said that there are buyers who (1) have the money to buy, and 2) get a lot of money on this. It helps to drive up the prices, and it helps to make fewer homes available to those who need a home. Therefore, SV is disappointed that the majority cannot participate in regulating this now, because there is a need for it. The longer we wait, the more parts of the ownership are bought up by an owner who buys a lot of shares or does it through different types of straw companies, and the more such sections of the ownership are hyblised – to a great dismay for neighbours and to the burden of the joint installations, who will not tolerate it. The last is perhaps the most serious, namely that dwellings regulated for dwellings are not used for it, and are not sold to the people who need a home. That's why it's disappointing that the majority now say they should investigate this in more detail. In fact, the government has had an opportunity to do so for quite a long time, especially because I believe that the committee has been patient and awaited the government's proposal. That this was one of the main problems that should be solved was no secret or surprise to the government. Coming back with a comprehensive bill now was what the Stortinget wanted the government to do – a bill that addressed the two major societal problems we are seeing now, namely that some of those living in owner-occupied areas feel that their living environment is being destroyed and that it is unsafe to live in their own homes, and the great lack of housing we have in Oslo, where there has also been an extreme price trend in recent years, and where this is one of the factors that drives prices up. I have to say I'm disappointed that the majority does not agree with the changes that need to be made quickly. I finally brought up the SV's proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2452	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2457	I would first like to thank the Committee for its thorough and good work. I am pleased that there is a great deal of consensus in the committee on most of the proposals in this bill. At the same time, I note that on some points the bill has created a debate and that there are shared views within the committee. It's not surprising, the ownership law is an important law, which engages and affects a lot of people. The majority of the rules in the current law on ownership continue unchanged. At the same time, we propose to renew and improve the law, making it easier to find out what rights and obligations you have when living in an ownership union. This contributes to good and safe living environments. We have stressed that the new ownership law should have a clear language, so that the law can be easily identified and understood, both for lawyers and for others. The government's proposal involves a whole range of legislative simplifications, for the benefit of individuals, the construction industry and the municipalities as a whole. A problem that sometimes arises is that housing sections that are legally compartmentalised under the ownership law are not allowed to live in by the law on the planning and building. This could be done, for example, by: is because the plan for the regulation of the property allows only two housing units, while the law for the ownership of the property does not provide the basis for refusing to section the property in three housing sections. For an ordinary consumer, this paradox is difficult to understand. I am therefore pleased that in the new law we have a completely new rule, which ensures that no one can section a housing section if it is not a legal housing unit according to the planning and building law. With the new rule, I hope to prevent credulous consumers from buying the cats in the bag – and in the worst case, there is a risk of having to leave their home. I believe it is a great advantage that the new rules allocate the maintenance obligation between the joint venture and the section owners more clearly than with the current law. The rules have been built up as a bullet list. This makes it easy for the law reader to look up and acquire knowledge that he or she has a duty to maintain. Today's law lacks rules on the liability of section owners and joint owners who break the maintenance obligation. Such rules have long been in demand. We're now correcting this defect. The question of what is called 'hybridisation' has created a great debate. I agree that this is a problem that we need to look at. At the same time, we believe that it is unfortunate if special rules are to be laid down in the Ownership Act. The issue of which several people are concerned is also raised in housing and self-catering housing. We therefore believe that the Planning and Building Act is the right superstructure to create a clearer platform for regulating the conditions that are under consideration. However, I believe that the rules proposed by the Committee to address the problem are not well-worked and can therefore be difficult to apply in practice. For example, it may be difficult to prove that extensive renting leads to increased costs for the joint venture. I therefore think it is good that it seems to be a majority in the Stortinget that we instead allow the government time to determine good rules, and not create conflicts and interpretation problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2472	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2477	I would like to ask the Council of State first, because the Council of State was concerned with quality assurance at work: it decided to draw up a completely new law in the Ministry after some changes to the 1997 law had been at the hearing, with the Wyller Committee. Did the State Council assess whether a good enough quality assurance is obtained when you write directly through a new law in the department and send it to the Stortinget without a regular hearing? It is clear that many of those who are specialists in legal formulations, who want objections and assessments, are not sitting here on the Stortinget. They're sitting around the country where you use this law every day as a tool. We've been excited here at Stortinget whether we were able to do a thorough enough job because you didn't have a hearing, and because there were a lot of recordings coming along at the hearing we had here at Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2482	Now, these changes are largely based on the public inquiry, so that most of the issues have been carefully assessed before the ministry took up work. We have very skilled lawyers in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, and there has also been extensive dialogue with various actors in the work on the bill that was sent to Stortinget. So I think the different issues have been carefully assessed, I'll actually say evaluated. The Committee has addressed some further issues in its work, and that is where my answer is that yes, we like to look at questions both about the number of sections that you can own, and about what is called hyblification, but also those questions have to be carefully considered, and we believe that it is elsewhere than the law of ownership that is the right place to deal with, among others. the questions of so-called 'hybridisation'.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2491	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that these are difficult questions, but the Council of State has shown that, since I first raised this in the Storting in January 2015, after the hearing, there is a need for work where you bring in the Planning and Building Act, etc. So we had a expectation that it could happen in these two and a half years, which several people here have been involved in the submissions. We are going to vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals that the government should make a comprehensive assessment of what is being put forward in the vote and come back to the Stortinget with possible proposals. But I get a little worried when the Council of State, for example. says that there are similar problems in housing laws, because it is clear that – and I have lived in both housing laws and the same – housing laws have a much tighter framework around the board's ability to say no to rent – you should have lived there yourself for so long, the length of the rental, etc. It's in common with this problem now evolving. Will the Council of State start serious and thorough work after these proposals are now being discussed at the Grand Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2500	Of course, the Council of State will deal with what is adopted in Stortinget, and I agree that these are issues that we need to take a closer look at. What we have warned against is that we are making laws that can both cause interpretation problems and create new conflicts, and that is why we want to spend more time in getting a thorough assessment of how this should be done. And then we believe that the Planning and Building Act, which is a cross-sectoral law, is the right place to look at this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2507	We've seen that, for example. in Oslo, which may experience these problems at the earliest possible level, there has been unanimity in city councils and city councils from the Right and the Advance Party on one side to the left of the other. There have been large increases in local demand, for example: in Akers Avis, where City Council Folke Fredriksen demanded action, and the City Council gave its opinion in hearings. These observations were in 2014, so we are concerned about how the Right is following this up in government. A problem faced by the representative Tuskedal with regard to the acquisition of more than two sections, which are, of course, the acquisition restriction rule, where the law in the media has almost been ridiculed, is the creation of a straw company, AS, etc. That acquisition rule must be limited in the ownership law, as far as I can see. It cannot be added to the Law on Planning and Building. Why is it so difficult to start by adopting a rule on indirect acquisitions, to which the majority of the committee refers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2514	This issue also concerns another fundamental and more fundamental issue, namely the issue of ownership, and there is also reason to ask questions about the restriction contained in current legislation. When we wanted to continue it, it's because we have a strong pressure on the prices in the city, so we think it makes sense. But it is quite right, as both the committee has pointed out, and as we have also done in the law, that today's limitation of ownership can be avoided – so that if you want to have an effective restriction, it is also necessary to look at the law. But here's the question of principle that also arises, of ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2522	The majority of the Committee does not support the Ministry's proposal to introduce a non-advertising anti-nutrition shelter for tourist facilities in the Planning and Building Act. The proposal, on the other hand, is supported by the Centre Party and SV, which have registered the request for such a permit, in particular from large tourist municipalities in the district. The majority refers to objections during the hearing of the property industry and considers that, through the current rules of the Planning and Building Act, sufficient facilities are available to control the level of sectioning of tourist facilities. So the municipalities and the real estate industry have completely different opinions. Can the Council of State clarify why the Ministry considers it desirable to introduce a new rejection house allowing municipalities to prohibit the compartmentalisation of tourist facilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2529	It's deepened in the legislative proposition. We thought that there was a basis for giving tourist communities this opportunity. I note that the majority of the committee has reached a different conclusion, and I also see that it is possible to argue for that view. But, of course, the Council of State is behind the proposal that initially came from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2534	I have to go back to the major problem of the hybridization and purchase of dwellings that are regulated as dwellings, to purely commercial activities via Airbnb. The Council of State once again says that this should be regulated by the Law on Planning and Building. Then the Committee's question is, why is it not presented in such a way that we could look at it? The municipality of Oslo said in the hearing that this was not in any way sufficient to handle it. There is also reason to ask the Council of State if an effective restriction on ownership is desired, if you want to stop the hyblication, and if you want to stop the use of dwellings to be dwellings, to Airbnb – and when, in that case, the legislative proposals will come to Stortinget, because this is urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2541	In response to several questions, I have now said that any further regulation to limit or prevent so-called hyblicisation is of the opinion that we need to do so in the Planning and Building Act. When we haven't suggested it, it's because the department has had other priority tasks that have gone ahead, and that we would wait for the Storting to deal with this matter. But I do not think it is a good answer that the committee proposes a legal restriction, which we believe is both unclear, can lead to interpretation problems and create new conflicts. Therefore, it would be wise for the government and the department to continue working on this issue and come back to it in the event of any changes to the Planning and Building Act. With regard to questions related to Airbnb, it was our starting point that we had to wait for NOU 2017:4 about the sharing economy. Not enough proposals have been made, but we will continue to work on that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2548	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2555	Thank you very much for your work. As chairman of a community here in the city, I would like to commend the Committee on Two Things They Have Done, and then I would like to ask a question to the Council of State. One is that I think it is positive that the committee has listened to the Christie's Gate 36 joint, which was in favour of equal treatment of joint ventures and housing laws in the field of mortgages, with the possibility of raising loans for the upgrading of common areas up to twice the basic amount. I think that's great. The second is that I want to commend the committee for having accepted what, among other things. We in the SV and the Left have jointly proposed that we should put in place a proper electric car charge and that we should have the right to do so. We have seen a lot of suggestions, including: in Budstikka, that electric car owners have not been given the possibility to install charging points, even if a large proportion of those living in the joint venture so requested. That's because if we're going to have a chance to roll out electric cars all over the country, it's absolutely necessary to do two things: one is to make sure that people living in the same area or living in housing camps have the opportunity to charge, and the other is to make sure that all new buildings are made ready to charge. I heard that, among other things: The right-wing representative spoke up and said it was important to get there. I note that, because we are going to have a debate on the exact same thing that is being discussed here today, namely a debate on whether to make housing laws more accessible. But the representatives of the government parties are against this. It is quite surprising that, while one committee in the Grand Duchy is unanimous in the aim of ensuring the possibility in common, the government parties are opposed to it in another committee. The Council of State did not propose it itself, but he has not opposed it here today, as far as I could hear, and then I ask the question: Will the Council of State quickly follow up the decision of the Grand Council to ensure that it gives the same right to people who own housing laws, so that they may also have the right to charge their car? The last is just a brief comment on what's going on about private property: as a director in a joint, I see housing that is small two-room apartments being converted into four-room apartments to increase income. Obviously, when this happens on a large scale on a joint, it creates problems. Then the simple question is, are you dealing with the residents who live in a common home and their private property rights, or with those who buy in? The Council of State has clearly stated the identity of his side.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2570	The reason why I take the floor is that I believe that the Council of State is very unclear as to whether he sees the needs of the majority of the Committee promoting legislative amendments – that there is a need for effective limitation of ownership beyond what is today, and that measures beyond the Planning and Building Act – of course also there – are necessary in order to limit and stop the restructuring and use of housing regulated as housing, to hotel operations through Airbnb. It's not about how individuals can rent out their apartment occasionally, but about how professional owners buy up and operate clean hotel operations. The councils are unclear. On the question of why he has not submitted proposals for changes to the Law on Planning and Building that would at least be able to remedy some of this, he says that it has not been a priority. Inhabitants in several housing centres have told the Committee that the housing environment is being completely destroyed. And in terms of the housing needs in this city, which is to be covered by the new dwellings that are regulated for housing, i.e. a home, you allow it to continue to be purchased by several, including companies, and that one owner should be able to buy up a lot. You obviously can't live in a lot of different apartments, so you're just doing business renting these units, which should be available to those who need to buy a dwelling in this crowded housing market. It does something about prices – it's a serious problem. I understand that the Council of State does not think this is important enough for him to have wanted to investigate it, even though the Storting has asked for this for several years, or that he can now give a clear answer as to whether he will give this priority in the future in such a way that it is possible to get back to Stortinget quickly with the necessary legislative changes that need to be made, so that account is taken of both those who live in these housing pools and those who need to buy a dwelling, in terms of both price and availability.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2577	This is what you might call an obvious misunderstanding. I have stated that I have a great understanding of the issues that have been raised, related to hyblication. I have also previously commended the representative of Bohemia for his commitment. The question is just how we deal with this issue. I have pointed out – in this debate and in the past – that the law on ownership is not the right place. That's what this discussion is about. So the committee has replied by making a legislative formula that we think can open up interpretation disagreements and more conflict. Therefore, we do not recommend it, but I am very comfortable with what it may seem to be a majority for in Stortinget, that the government should come back to this issue and look at the possibility of further regulation through the Planning and Building Act. That's the right place, and of course we're prepared to give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2582	I would like to thank, as the rapporteur, for many good contributions to the debate and deepening of the positions, in particular on the issue of social problems related to the hyblicisation and development of vulnerable areas, as the representatives of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the SV and the Central Party have mentioned in a good way, and as I also perceive, the representative Helgerud of the Right is taking it seriously. I just want to make sure that I get two incursions fixed in the proposals. This is a complicated matter, and I have been made aware of this by lawyers and by our competent secretariat here at Stortinget. The first incurrency concerns the majority’s proposal for the second sentence of Section 23 of the First Paragraph of the Ownership Act. The word ‘sections’ shall be replaced by ‘section’. It's on page 54 in the setting. It is simply because the acquisition rule also applies if one section is purchased in addition to the two permitted by law. The second incurrency is the fourth sentence of the fourth sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 25 of the Ownership Act, page 55 of the vote, as proposed by the majority. There it's referred to the second sentence. The correct reference shall be the third sentence. It has to be corrected to the third sentence. These are pure incubators that I have been made aware of. So it's hard to get this right, but now I hope it does. I am not quite sure if in my main post I remembered to take up the minority proposals from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party on page 67 of the setting. It's nodding. I would like to take this opportunity to say that the problems that arise have been taken seriously. I was recently informed by a joint venture at Vestli that they have a large share of the conversion of owner's sections and dwellings to furniture, something the representative Tskedal had to say. Now they told about a lonely lady, the minimum pensioner, as also mentioned in an article earlier on expenses. The joint had to create new capacity on the water supply to the block and the area because it was overloaded by so many new residents in each apartment. If there are 6-7 bedrooms, there are 15 people living in an apartment in which there has been a family in the past. In the case of many apartments on the rise -- I think they talked about 40 pst. of the dwellings of the joint venture – they must reconstruct their entire water supply facility. Then this lone minimum pensioner has to share a cost of $28 million. kr. It must be clear that our proposal in Section 29 is that a special distribution must be possible when it occurs and such unforeseen or increased expenditures can be documented. I wish that more people had joined, so that there would have been a majority in the hall as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2595	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2611	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2620	As rapporteur of the case, I would like to start by thanking the other parties and the Secretariat for a good cooperation on the communication from the government on sustainable cities and strong districts and on the proposal for a representative on how state jobs affect regional disparities. Report. St. 18 for 2016–2017, Berekraftige cities and strong districts point to fundamental truths in Norwegian reality and district policy. Cities, suburbs and districts are inextricably linked in Norway. There is cross-political agreement that both large and small cities are engines that have much of the growth power of surrounding areas. At the same time, cities often draw their strength from the surrounding region and region around them, i.e. a dependency we have to build on to a great extent. It's a goal that we use the whole country, and that we work together to maintain a decentralised settlement and a varied housing structure in our country and counteract unwanted centralisation. In our long-term country, we find different strengths and challenges. This truth must be used as a basis for national policy-making. Variation is a geographical, historical and cultural enrichment on which one must build our country further. This is precisely the main point of the forthcoming regional reform that we are about to deal with in a short time. Strong regions that can develop their own advantages are one of the most important things we have in terms of good district policy. During this period, the bulk of the population has invested a lot in transportation. The aftermath was great, and the need was great. Nevertheless, in the Christian People's Party, we should wish that the government parties had perhaps less cut and reallocated county and regional development funds in recent years in their proposals for the state budget. Such means are important tools in the toolbox to enable county councils to do this development job. In some regions, these funds have worked very well and given growth, and so we must continue to facilitate innovation and re-establishment. Let it be said, therefore, that we assume that such and similar instruments are put at the disposal of the new regions or new and strong counties. I expect that in the Christian People's Party we will continue to ask for it on several occasions. We believe that this is essential. Good public planning plays a key role in the development of sustainable cities and strong districts. In many places, there are capacity challenges in this planning and the need for reinforced planning guidance. We have noted the input of KS into the consultation on the need for more places of study in this planning, and we are pleased that the Committee has agreed on a proposal on this subject. I am also pleased that an overall committee specifies that municipalities play a key role in local community development, and in this respect it is a desire that even more municipalities find it wise to form new municipalities with their neighbours in order to provide even better services to their inhabitants and to make better use of resources. Professional competence locally is an essential priority. We have noticed that the government wants a more balanced distribution of government jobs. The government's plan was just attached to the big message. The plan for relocation is the government's table, and it is positive that the government is using this tool to strengthen several parts of the country and dampen the pressure on the capital area. This must continue as a long-term instrument and not just as a ship's per capita effort. It should also be emphasised that there is a high potential for increased interaction on research and development. As the case rapporteur for this message, it was important for me to address the debate on urbanisation, because we have to take into account that urbanisation is a global trend, and it becomes too unhealthy to talk about this just as a problem. Obviously, there are unfortunate aspects that must be counteracted by all force, but at the same time there are mechanisms that can be used to reinforce this positive. I would also like to mention that the Committee has considered Document 8:44 S for 2016-2017 in the context of Notification. St. 18 for 2016-2017, which asks for an analysis of the impact of the distribution of State employment on regional disparities. In that case, the majority of the Committee believes that the matter in the proposal for a representative is good, but points out that a good deal is already known about this. Among other things, highlighted in the Competence Workplace Committee in 2011, and the majority of the Committee does not consider it appropriate to launch a large and resource-intensive investigation into this at this stage. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2645	The representative Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2650	The working party will take full use of Norway. Cities and districts are interdependent. For generations we have shown that Norway succeeds best when we stand together – city and country hand in hand. Norway is one of the few countries with a housing target for district policy. It's the Workers' Party proud of. Through deliberate investment, Norway has for many years managed to maintain widespread housing, value creation and knowledge environments throughout the country. This means that, unlike many other countries, we have great freedom of choice when we're going to choose where we're going to live and how we want to live. That's a good one. Therefore, the Workers' Party will pursue a district policy which faces the future and societal changes in an offensive way and which compensates for geographical disadvantages. Four years of the Progress Party and the Right in Government have led to an increase in differences in Norway — between people, between municipalities and between parts of the country. The biggest tax cuts have gone to a few people in a few parts of the country, while food and district policy measures in the rest of the country are weakening. That is why we need a new direction for the country. The Labour Party will pursue a policy of creating new, secure and forward-looking jobs in all parts of Norway. In order to succeed, the different parts of the country need to have room to evolve in areas where they have priority. We will strengthen the regional instruments for growth and development, and we believe that extra efforts should be made for local communities and areas with particular challenges. Many of our future opportunities lie in the natural resources linked to technology and new knowledge. Fisheries and aquaculture, forestry, agriculture, hydropower, minerals and metals and, in particular, oil and gas are the basis for jobs and competences throughout the country. The Workers' Party will prioritise efforts for industries where we have competences or natural advantages and where we have potential for growth. The basis for Norwegian value creation is largely in the districts. Therefore, the Workers’ Party considers it right and reasonable that the ring-fence of these industries should benefit the communities concerned. Our future is not least linked to the sea. The working party will have a value creation programme for the marine industries. We will make Norway the world leader in areas where we take advantage – in fish, breeding, energy and new species. The prerequisite for achieving new objectives is that we jointly manage Community resources, rather than privatising or pooling natural resources in a few hands, as the government has planned with the changes in the universal service system in the fisheries industry. State jobs need to be distributed in a way that contributes to growth and value creation across the country. The aim of the policy shall be to strengthen regional labour markets and to choose location where jobs will have the greatest potential to contribute to development and knowledge building in the region. There are some functions that can only be added to the largest cities, but many problems can also be solved in smaller places. The Working Party shares SV and the views of the Centre on the environment in Kongsvinger, but also a number of other places in Norway feel that according to the government’s definition they are not robust enough to maintain state jobs and environments of competence that they currently have. In my home country, Vadsø has lost nearly 70 state jobs, in Flora in Sogn and Fjordane they are probably not far away. A number of other examples from all over the country could have been mentioned. The list is getting longer and longer. We are in order to reorganize when it is needed, but what is a great paradox despite the number of bureaucrats having increased under this government is that they are distributed in a way that centralizes both jobs and decisions. This has to be able to be solved in another way. A prerequisite for this is political will and also that the digital infrastructure must be in place. That is why we want to ensure broadband deployment, so that everyone has access to basic digital infrastructure. Everybody's coming, all over the country. Finally, I will address the proposals No. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2675	The representative Helga Pedersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2680	In the Sundvolden Declaration, the government announced a new regional policy. One of the factors is: emphasis on the framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises and workplaces and a more active metropolitan policy. The objectives of government's regional and district policies are regional balances between growth, equivalent living conditions and sustainable regions throughout the country. A well-functioning business life is an important commitment to well-being, living conditions and quality of life in all types of communities, both urban and scattered. One needs an active and profitable business that innovates and creates jobs. There are resources across the country, and resilient cities and strong districts can benefit from each other. Cities often provide greater access to competences, capital, infrastructure and services. In the districts, there is an important resource that provides a basis for industry and growth. It is important to take advantage of the opportunities offered by urbanisation in order to bring about positive urban and rural development in all parts of the country. We will have living communities with safe jobs, good kindergartens and schools, health and care throughout Norway. Different places have different starting points and possibilities. Thus, a policy that can be adapted is needed, which strengthens cooperation and gives growth and equivalent living conditions in all parts of the country. If we are to achieve good development in the whole country, we are dependent on good interaction between business and the people of cities and districts. Good communication between cities and scattered busses helps create stronger common busses and work areas, and facilitates efficient and fast delivery of goods and services throughout the country. The government’s strong commitment in the transport sector and other infrastructure has led to an important boost for the development of urban communities and communities throughout the country. Record-sized permits for highways are a good example of this, and this will continue. Good and efficient infrastructure is also fundamental to the development of strong regions and the decision-making process in order to maintain the good regional balance we have in Norway. The government’s priority of infrastructure is a good example of the importance of a broad sectoral policy. Strong regions have led both good sectoral policies and clear, targeted extra efforts. This government also has a clear objective of reducing government bureaucracy and simplifying and renewing the public sector. It is therefore very gratifying to see that the growth in the central administration has slowed down under the Right-front party government, and that the number of people added to the department in Oslo has been reduced. The population of Norway is developing differently. In the largest urban areas, much of the growth is due to the fact that one has a young population. This means that there are many births and few deaths. In small-scale regions and scattered areas, the population may be older, often resulting in more deaths than births. It's a pity the peoples are going down. There are large local variations. Many district municipalities have a total decline in the population, and the number would be significantly larger without net immigration from abroad. There are more people moving to the metropolitan regions from the rest of the country than there are moving across the street, but the net is very small, and so it has been for many years. An important part of this bulking message is the plan for the relocation of state workplaces. This plan is anchored in the agreement between the Government Party and the Left on a new income system for municipalities, which came in spring 2016. That's where it says, among other things. att ‘municipal reform facilitates wider areas of competence throughout the country. The work on locating new and existing jobs outside Oslo shall be reinforced and a plan shall be drawn up together with the Left. In particular, localisation shall be assessed in new regional centres, even outside the major cities». And in addition: ‘New and relocated State jobs shall, as a general rule, be located outside Oslo.’ Since the government change in 2013, about 630 state jobs have been decided or planned to be located outside Oslo. This includes both the establishment of new and relocations. In the period 2013–2016, it is agreed to move out or establish more than twice as many government jobs outside Oslo as in the period 2009–2013 of the red-green government. The plan attached to the Storing Message means a regime change for government jobs in the districts. The Government and the Left have a very offensive and forward-looking hold to facilitate the relocation and re-establishment of state jobs in all parts of the country. Unfortunately, we see that the Workers' Party in a note opposes the extensive relocation of established state-owned enterprises. It is important to note that residents in the districts and regional centres, who have great ambitions about important skills jobs, have a lot to do with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2720	This big message gives us the opportunity to think and debate a little overarching district policy, which – as we have all recorded – has become more significant in public vocabulary in the later period than before, which is very good. I am myself from the district and am very busy with district policy, but perhaps with a slightly different input value than that of the Center Party, which has made district policy a trademark through its existence, has the habit of putting it into practice. I think district policy is about letting the districts take their own advantage. We don't need any transfers, or we don't need one to feel sorry for the districts of Stortinget and Oslo. It is largely about allowing the districts to take care of their own possibilities and to be allowed to control themselves with the least possible interference from the accumulation, government, state, etc. That is what district policy is all about for me. When I ask my spokesmen and other spokesmen when we're traveling with the committee what they need from the Storting to make the districts flourish and grow, there's almost one answer we always get, and that's: money to go. No one is asking for large investments in regional departments in the county – as a general rule. What they're asking for is money for transportation and roads, and that's what this government has really delivered on. A record investment in the road network is currently being made in the national transport plan. The decline in both Norway and the districts goes down. If we look at the county road network, there's a big aftermath again after the red-greens gave the county road network to the county municipalities, but also there, this government has put up a huge amount of money. Over 1 billion. kr is allocated to initial investments and to investment on the county road network. That's what our local politicians demand, and here we deliver. Another important district bet we've been working on for these four years is holiday settlement. If there's something island municipalities and island communities really need, it's connected to the mainland. There this government, together with the Committee, has put in place a 40-year scheme to replace ferries with bridges or tunnels, and it is 20 years better than what the red-green signaled that they were interested in in their management time. Here we are twice as good in district policy as they were after. Another important part of the district policy is to facilitate the creation of values in the districts. I'm busy with government jobs, that's good. But the most important thing is actually the private workplaces. It is those who should be busy getting to their municipalities – not the struggle to get government jobs, but the struggle to facilitate private jobs. There's an interesting problem here: it's a party that will tighten the tax requirements of these people who create jobs. One wants more in taxes on wealth. What does that mean? Well, one leaves those who run and create jobs in the districts get a disadvantage compared to international competitors. I want to have local owners who think about the community and are patriots of their community more than international owners who are abroad and own jobs. For this reason, fiscal policy is important, and so it becomes very important for the district policy on this government, which puts taxes down, keeps going, or if a new government is going to set them up by 20 billion. kr or even more. We don't know what we get, but we know that now at least we have a government that puts the taxes down, and that recognises that someone actually has to create private jobs, because that's what the districts really need. One has also in the vocabulary made an impression that a centralization is very centralized from this plural. It is wrong that there is more centralization today than it was before. As an example, statistics show that every eight days under the red-green government, a roundabout ball was placed in Norway. The number of this government time is that we must have more than thirty days for each runoff. It shows that centralisation internally in a municipality through schooling has had a completely different pace under the red-green. In fact, I think it is because the local economy is now strong, which allows local politicians to prioritize barnacles in a completely different way than they could in the eight red-green years. So district policy is about facilitating the situation primarily in order for the districts to be allowed to exploit their amazing natural resources – whether it is fisheries, aquaculture or other natural resources – is up to them to decide. It is very important that we should facilitate relations from this Chamber, both with fiscal policies and with other policies, so that the districts will have good futures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2737	I want to start by quoting from a newspaper post I read this weekend. It had the title ‘By and Country — In Reverse Country?’ and was written by an Oslo citizen from Løren. He says: ‘We don’t glory in the village of Norway from Løren because we’re nostalgic, or of pity for our roots and ancestors. We do this because we know that without the conditions to live, live, love and produce in the regions where the resources are located, value creation throughout Norway is dramatically weakened." People have to settle where they want to. We know that many dreams of a life in the village, but relevant work for themselves and for the partner is the key to being able to follow that dream. The central party believes that district policy should aim at maintaining the main features of the housing pattern. Under the red-green government a negative trend was reversed. At the government shift in 2005, 84 out of 304 municipalities in the district policy area had population growth. After eight years of red-green rule, this was reversed. In 2013, there was population growth in 186 municipalities within the district policy scope. Reduced housing in district municipalities is a threat to the entire country. It weakens the possibilities of high value creation based on our resource base. At the same time, pressures on the largest cities, where problems arise in the form of housing cows, traffic problems, too few public transport, increased pollution, etc. The centre party believes that regional policy instruments need to be strengthened, not weakened, as the incumbent government has contributed to. The system of differentiated employer charges is arranged as a result of requirements under the EEA Agreement. Appropriations for regional and district policy over the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs have been reduced by 47 p.m., or 1.4 b.m. kr after the government change in 2013. And when the representative Njåstad claims that he has not heard anyone calling for the funds when we've been on committee trips, I don't know if he's the “læssørin” or whether he has selective hearing, but I haven't been in a single state where they haven't pointed out that it's a challenge that regional policy instruments are reduced. I can hardly imagine that we have had a hearing in the committee either where this has been a relevant issue, without the hearing bodies pointing out that there were very limited opportunities around the municipalities. Changes in the income system of municipalities and counties have also weakened the possibility of equivalent services throughout the country. In addition, the government has implemented a number of centralising reforms that have led to a greater imbalance in job developments between major cities and districts. Police reform, municipal reform, proposals for the closure of tax offices, the weakening of local hospitals, proposals for a revised regional breakdown of Innovation Norway and Nav are just a few examples of this. In the big news, the government says that there is a need for new regional and district policy objectives. These objectives are not clearly formulated, but need to be understood as less emphasis on maintaining housing and jobs in all parts of the country, and greater emphasis on what is called sustainable regions. Thus, the Communication on Sustainable Cities and Strong Districts contributes to the continuation of government centralisation policy. The Centre Party presented its own regional and district notification in January 2017, called ‘Enjoy all of Norway!’. In the Communication, we are promoting 23 measures that we believe need to be taken as a basis for reopening the rural policy offensive. We point to, among other things: forestry, the seafood industry, agricultural food production, the mineral industry and energy production as important areas of activity. We also show that investing in the resources on which the districts are located is important in order to make a green transition to business. Public authorities — state, county or local authorities — must be active drivers of a more offensive district policy. In the Committee's position, we are promoting several proposals that are based on this. The Centre Party shall promote, inter alia: a proposal asking the government to make a change in the exercise of state authority through a reduction in control and reporting requirements. I will come back to the Central Party's Document 8 proposal, Document 8:44, in a later post. Finally, I would like to address the proposals put forward by the Central Party together with the SV, and our proposal No. 10, and I will especially ask the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party to look at proposal No. 7, on the volunteering line of the municipal reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2766	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2771	It may be tempting to ask: Can't everything be the way it was before? Why can't the municipalities be as they have been since 1964? Why can't post offices, county offices and schools be what they've always been, because what's the point of changing? It's tempting questions to ask, even for us who live in and burn for the districts, but are engaged in parties other than the Center Party, who call for no change anyway. The simple answer to why not everything can be like before is that we have actually had an educational revolution in Norway in the last 30–40 years. Our children and grandchildren are taking higher education – more and more. If we want our children to have career choices and professional challenges, and they want to live their lives all over the country, we need to change the way District Norway is organized. Everything else is tricking ourselves. Weakening District Norway makes the growth of the big cities even stronger than it already is. When Norwegian districts last went through a radical change — in the 1960s — it was due to the transition from seven-year-old primary schools to nine-year-old primary schools. It required larger municipalities, larger trade unions and a different rigging of daily life in the districts than in the decades before. Since then, there have been enormous changes in society. In practice, we now have a 13-year-old school for the vast majority, and most people do not care about it either: 65–70 pst. of all young people taking higher education. An overall political environment in Norway, including the Centre Party, has fueled this development. The paradox is that nothing is more centralizing than education. To go to college and university, most young people in District Norway have to move into larger cities and centres. Very many stay there, not because they stop being happy in their home, but because they want to have exciting work, to be able to change jobs at regular intervals, to be able to work with like-minded people and to have a large trades union environment, cultural environment and social environment around them. To believe that this is possible with 428 municipalities – most of them less than 5,000 inhabitants – is a mere illusion. Municipal tasks are becoming increasingly complex. People's demands are growing. Sitting as a lone builder, psychologist, police officer or child protection specialist in a small municipality is something the few young people want, especially when the option is to be in a wide professional environment with many colleagues and great room for professional development. Therefore, a municipal reform, with larger municipalities and more clear and strong regional centres, is urgently needed for us who want to take care of the districts. For the Left, it is essential that it be combined with a systematic relocation of State jobs to the strong regional centres. Only then will we create attractive places to live and work across the country for our children and grandchildren – not just a shell of an old district structure that is hermetized and gradually emptied for people and content. The paradox is that while the Centre Party fights with beaks and claws against the structural changes in the municipalities, the Central Party makes the industry the warmest talk about – which I am also part of, namely agriculture – exactly what the Centre Party says the rest of society should not do, because no one has centralised more hard-handedly than agriculture in the last decades. The dairies, slaughterhouses, agricultural cooperatives and farm structure have changed to something that is unknown, with not least the centre lot people behind the steering wheel of the cooperative organisations and with the centre party in government for much of the period. The changes have been absolutely imperative, but the learning capacity of the Central Party peoples who have driven them forward has been incredibly small. The left fully believes in a strong District Norway in the future. We believe that agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture are future industries with enormous growth potential. We believe that the green shift will bring new growth to the business community in the districts, to our energy resources, to our industrial environments and to our business community, which is often much stronger in the districts than in the big cities. But then young people have to meet with good and strong public trade unions all over the country. We have to rig Norway so that our children do not feel it as a step down the career path to move out of the big cities – to Sogn and Fjordane, Nord-Trøndelag or Finnmark. We need to move more power and tasks out of the big cities and create a municipality-Norway adapted to society in 2030, not society in 1965. The central party's call to preserve the past is not the right medicine for District Norway. The rural policy of the left does not look backwards, but we are looking forward, because it is possible in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2791	SV wants change. We want more cities to have urban environmental agreements so that we can bring down greenhouse gas emissions and it'll be nice to live there, that it is possible to move collectively and by bicycle and times, and that fewer are damaged by dangerous urban air. We want urban area deployment that allows all areas to develop positively. We've seen that work. The government cuts down on it, SV wants to strengthen it. We want a reinforced social housing policy, especially in cities, because they need it. There also needs people who have very common incomes, to have the opportunity to live. It's hard today. We also want all policy areas to take account of the need for balanced development across the country. What is therefore much more important than community mergers is what we do with the local economy, that it gets stronger than today, which means that municipalities can be good for both the inhabitants and the business community. We need to develop a fisheries policy that will benefit those areas of the country that have the resources, as SV has proposed. We need an agricultural policy that allows us to use resources across the country. And not least we need to develop the industry we can, from forest. There is a great deal to be done, and the SV's proposal for a major effort to use forest biological resources in a future industrial effort to replace the oil industry is very important. There needs to be a close-up reform. The government operates centralisation policies and uses ICT and digitisation to centralise. You should do the opposite. For example: The tax rate, Nav and public services, should be used to shift functions out and not to centralise them. Good broadband infrastructure is then needed throughout the country. One of the governments that started was to cut the broadband bet. Is there anyone who thinks you can establish a business where this doesn't work? Then you have to move, then it's not voluntary. Is there anyone who thinks you can run a modern school where this doesn't exist? You have to centralize. So if we're going to use the resources that are across the country, the broadband bet has to rise. A lot of people have been talking about education. Yes, it is right and important that Norway builds strong institutions in this field, but perhaps one of the most important things we can do is to strengthen decentralised higher education across the country. It's a bet that works, and it allows you to take education as well as fill it with education during your life course. The last time SV promoted this, both the Center Party and the Workers' Party were involved. Now the Labour Party has fallen off, and I don't know for what reason, but they should definitely consider being on that proposal. When it comes to relocation, we can discuss the numbers, but from 2005 to 2009, we moved out 1,145 jobs. One of the first things this government did was kicking bones under the bet that the previous government had on Tynset, on the archives there. Now they have it on their list, but reduced – from 80 to 58 jobs – so I wouldn't brag so much of it. SV has referred in its comments to several environments where it is possible to move out, but we are concerned that relocation must take place after thorough processes in which employees are also involved, and not as a surprise in the newspaper, as the government is doing. We have e.g. mentioned the Narvik environment and the NVE, we mentioned Kongswinger and SSB – where the working party is not, but I now heard that Helga Pedersen was supposed to be involved. The Directorate of Agriculture is possible to imagine that it should move to an area where there is a strong agricultural environment. We have also mentioned cyber and information security, which was discussed in another matter here today, where there are heavy environments outside Oslo, for example. at Gjøvik and Lillehammer, which should be possible to watch whenever you want. This is about almost everything else than a community merger.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2812	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a thorough and good treatment of this big message. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the environments around Norway that have contributed to the preparation of the Storing Communication. It hasn't existed in a vacuum, it's been made after dialogue and input from business environments, from universities, from colleges, local and regional politicians, and I think that also reflects the quality of the message and that it's been well received in the Storting. I'm glad. Not least, I am pleased that all parties, including the Workers' Party, see the value of seeing sustainable cities and strong districts in the context. It is a reality that our largest and most important natural resources that lay the basis for the creation, labor and settlement are located in District Norway. At the same time, many of the universities, colleges, research communities and logistics organisations are located in cities. Cities and districts are interdependent. In 2015, the UN adopted its new sustainability targets for development. These have also been taken into account by the government in the work on this big message. It is important that we facilitate cities and towns, that it is good to both live and do business, and we do so by facilitating roads, by rail, by ports and airports, by simplifying the public sector and by facilitating entrepreneurs and job creators across the country. I noticed that the representative Helga Pedersen said that the differences between parts of the country are increasing. It could be interesting to hear what the representative Helga Pedersen means by that, because the reality is that North Norway is the country that is now the best – unemployment is falling. The hinterland, which was mentioned earlier in the oil shadow, has growth, has falling unemployment. Sogn and Fjordane, who may be District State No. 1 has the lowest unemployment rate in the country. Many of the district industries are the best in fisheries, tourism, renewable energy, mineral industry and agriculture. Yes, we see that the district industries are going well, and then it's striking that the Workers' Party is talking about increasing differences. In addition to general instruments, it is also important that we have strategies for individual industries. These have been presented by the government to the Stortinget, and we are making improvements for a number of our industries as well as targeted measures for District Norway, such as differentiated employer fees and access to the necessary capital and partners. We have made a decision to establish and move 630 jobs during this ageing period. I hear that Andersen has a higher figure for the period 2005-2009, but with all due respect, 770 of the jobs were moved within the Oslo labour market. They were moved from Oslo to Ås. We are committed to putting the whole country into use and helping to ensure that government jobs can also help to strengthen the labour markets around the country. Let me also stress that cities are also facing some complex challenges, and that it is therefore important that we have special tools to manage urban development. We do that through area initiatives that we want to strengthen and further develop. It is in everyone's interest that the differences in cities are as low as possible and that we contribute to the development of big cities. Urban growth agreements are also an important tool for cities, which make it possible to see the link between land-use planning and the development of rail and public transport and roads. These are now in place, and we are clear that once the urban growth agreements for the four largest cities have arrived, the trip has come to Tromsø, to the Kristiansand area, Grenland, the Buskerudbyen and Lower Glomma. We want to build on urban growth agreements and allow them to be developed as tools also for medium-sized cities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2831	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2836	Today’s Right-wing Party government has, throughout this four-year period, de-prioritised the grant pot to expand broadband where the market does not manage it alone. When the government took over today, the pot was 160 million. kr. Already at the first own budget, it was cut down to 50 million. kr. Fortunately, the majority on Stortinget lifted it somewhat. The same thing happened in 2016, and then there was a slight increase in 2017. In comparison, the Workers' Party actually had $300 million in this three-year period. kr more than the government's proposal for the pot. I am aware that this subsidy item is under the Ministry of Transport, but a well-developed broadband across the country is not least important for the area for which the Minister of Municipal Affairs is responsible. Does the Council agree with the Minister for Transport that the development of broadband is to be approached by the market alone?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2841	I hope there is a broad consensus that there is a primary responsibility for the market, while there is also a broad consensus that there is a need for subsidies. During this period, there are some states that have got something smaller. Others have got more. Those who have received more are Hedmark, Oppland, Sogn and Fjordane and Nord-Trøndelag, who have received significantly more during these four years. We can always discuss some grant schemes, but it is important to stress that broadband is primarily a responsibility for the market, and I also thought that the Workers' Party agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2846	Then I got the answer I expected, because it turns out that the market alone is unable to fix this. There are 600 million applications each year. kr. That means that there has to be a significant promise if you're going to do something about the division that's today. Today, there are only 37 psts outside of the built-in area. accessible on high-speed broadband. In built-in struts, it's 96 pst. We already have a digital division. This goes beyond the public offer. Whether we talk about school, health or care, it depends on where you live. In particular, good broadband coverage is essential for good industrial development, whether in rural areas or elsewhere, whether in fisheries, agriculture or other industries. The fact that the council doesn't see it surprises me very much. I also see that in the coming period you will not do anything about it. I have to ask again: what will the Council of State do to provide a good high-speed broadband across the country when you don't want to use state resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2853	The representative may not have heard what I said in my post. I said that this is primarily a responsibility for the market, and it surprises me very much if the Labour Party disagrees. But I underlined that there is also a need for some state grant, and I referred to four states, among others. Sogn and Fjordane and Nord-Trøndelag, which have gained significantly more during these years. It is also true that this is more than a grant. These include: on the excavation costs, amounting to 70 to 80 pst. of the total cost of expansion. There we are now actively working with municipalities and other actors in order to get good framework conditions, which means that the minimum amount of taxpayers' money can be spent on this part. We are also working on other changes to different legislation to better facilitate coordinated digging and more cost-effective broadband deployment. These are also important issues in helping the whole country access broadband, for which I am a strong driver, because this is important both for small and large businesses and for private households.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2860	In its letter to the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the Council of State states that from 2011 the position of the Committee of Competence Workplaces assessed the importance of public and private competence workplaces and that there is therefore no need to investigate how the distribution of State employment affects regional disparities. The Committee of Competence Workplaces was mandated to propose measures to ensure that skilled jobs and new state jobs were spread throughout the country. It's an important work, but not an answer to our question. The Labour Force Committee did not have a mandate — and therefore does not respond — to how the distribution of State jobs affects regional disparities. If we are to get an answer to that, it must be done through an investigation. Why does the Council of State disagree with us in this? Does the Council of State think that this is not a relevant issue, or does the Council of State think that we can acquire this knowledge by other means than a public investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2867	It is always good to say that one more investigation is needed, but in this area we do not believe that there is a need for investigation, but there is a need for a government to show action, and that is what this government is doing. We show that by moving out more than the previous government did, and we've made plans for further relocation. And we do that because it's important that we have skills jobs in different places in Norway. It can help to strengthen labour markets, and it can help us get stronger regional centres in different places in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2872	At the same time as some jobs have been moved out during this period, it is estimated that approx. 4 000 new state jobs in Oslo, and there are clear statistics that the proportion of government jobs in Oslo has increased over this period in relation to the proportion in Norway. Does not the Council of State consider this relevant for development also for regions outside Oslo, when their share of State jobs has fallen overall during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2877	Let me first say that within many state jobs there is going to be a growth in the years to come. It also went this government to elections on. We want more policemen, we want more staff at universities and colleges, we want faster road and rail development. Then we need more employees in the state. What has been our clear goal is to take action to reduce the growth of bureaucracy and bring it down in key areas. And we have done so, among other things. by the fact that there are fewer employees in the departments now than before. If we look at the proportion of government employees in Oslo, it was 28.6 p.m. in 2005, it grew to 28.8 p.m. in 2013 and until 28.9 pst. in 2016. So both under the red-green and this government there has been a fairly limited growth in the proportion in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2885	There may be reasons to increase the number of employees also in the country, we agree on that. However, it is a little problematic when governments and government parties and support players do not want to be involved on a proposal to explain how government guidelines on the location of state jobs have been used, how they have been used in specific cases reported to the Stortinget. Nor, in cases where it means changing tasks and may result in a change in geographical location, will one explain how many are involved or how this results. Nor do you want to be on a proposal to provide in the budgets an overview of new state jobs established in Oslo, and the distribution internally in the capital and elsewhere in the country. Can the Council of State give a reason why you don't want to document what you're actually doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2890	Now the representative asks me why the members of the Right Party and the Advance Party in Stortinget have not been on comments from SV. Perhaps then I think that the representative, Andersen, should ask the representatives of the committee. But it is clear that the government is going to explain what we are going to, to Stortinget, and it is quite possible to both send written questions and ask questions in the Question Time, and then, of course, the Council of State will answer the questions that are being asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2897	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2904	The Labour Party is responsible for a policy that will take over the whole country, and we will once again create new jobs across the country when we take over the government offices for the autumn. For generations we have shown that we succeed best when we stand together city and country hand in hand – a good slogan that has been used for a long time, but which is equally topical today. I see from the announcement that the government will develop North Norway into one of the most creative and sustainable regions in the country. It sounds good, but then one must also pursue a policy that contributes to it. Yeah, it's going well in North Norway now, but it's not because of the government's policy, because there's actually little to bet on. The first thing this government did was to increase the employer’s pay for several areas. The next thing it did is cut regional development funds. Then you changed the keys so that especially Nordland came out badly, with almost 300 million. kr at the end of the transitional period if no change occurs. They say you've been betting on the county roads. Yeah, you might have it. It's probably more so that the states have given more priority to the county roads than they have increased frames. We also see, as we had a little chat about during the line change, that we have a government that doesn't bet on the expansion of broadband, because they leave the market alone. Then the state council tried to challenge whether we were opponents of the market. No, on the contrary – but it is once again so that the market does not expand broadband across the country alone. That shows the numbers, black on white. As I mentioned in the line change: Outside of densely built strips, today it is only 37 pst. having access to high-speed broadband. If you're lucky enough to live in densely populated areas, the number is 96 pst. It's a digital distinction that we can't be familiar with, and then we have to take action. I record that the only measure this government will take is to make it easier to dig. I don't disagree, but that's not enough. We also see that we have a government that does not use the coast. We are now dealing with the national transport plan. There are 20 new fishing ports. 16.5 of them have been proposed for the last six-year period, i.e. only in 2024–2029. In addition, this government has proposed shifting responsibility to the regions after 2020. Is it random?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2923	The old slogan ‘By and Land hand in hand’ of the Labour Party is as good today as it was the time it was launched. Work and settlement throughout the country is the foundation of a strong community and of our common identity. We now have a government that pursues a centralising policy in many areas and that weakens the districts. In order to achieve the objective of using the whole country, we need an active industrial policy, which this government has left for the sake of business neutrality and the belief that the market will be settled. We see this in terms of the instruments in Innovation Norway: industry-specific and geographical instruments have been cut and made nationwide, the local governments of Innovation Norway have been cut off, and the regional development funds that go, among other things. to important regional economic development, it is dramatically cut in. We see passivity towards several other important district industries, such as: the mineral industry, an industry promoted by the Stoltenberg Government by adopting new mineral law and its own mineral strategy, as well as by launching a comprehensive survey of Norway’s mineral resources. These means of monitoring have been cut off by this government in the last two years, and important competences are lost. Perhaps the most important industry contributing to employment and living areas is agriculture. We have just dealt with an agricultural report, in which the government of the Right and the Advance Party clearly said that agricultural policy should not be part of the rural policy, something to which we in the Workers' Party totally disagree. Here we also see a government that has led a centralising agricultural policy through a large-scale prioritisation of large-scale use at the expense of small and medium-sized applications. Most of the government's proposals in this communication would have dramatic consequences, not least it would have torn bones throughout the Norwegian agricultural model and agriculture throughout the country. Fortunately, this message landed with a large stomach area for the government through the treatment of the Storting. Now we have a discussion of the government's proposals for amendments to the concession law, the law of the land, the law of the nobility and price control. Over generations, property law has contributed to scattered and diverse private ownership of land and forests in Norway, and the government's proposal will for Agder, from which I come, and corresponding states, mean that 75–80 pst. the use is exempted from concession, price control and accommodation obligations. In my opinion, it will have dramatic consequences for District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2932	There is no doubt that state jobs can have major ring-effects and that balanced localisation of state jobs across the country can be an important lever for growth, development and housing across the country. In my home municipality, North Odal, we have now had Bruvoll prison for over ten years. The ring-fenced effects of around 40 prison jobs in the community have been invaluable. We can say the same about the School of Police Education at Kongsvinger, the State Service Centre in Engerdal, the campus of the College of the Inland of Great Elvdal and many other examples around Hedmark and elsewhere in the country. When we talk about state jobs and general development outside the big cities, we can't just talk about start-up and relocation, we also have to talk about further developing what exists. We look at several areas of processes that in many ways undermine the objectives underlying this communication and the debate we now have. In the cultural field, for example, we have: the archive sector, where the reorganisation of the Archives and the withdrawal of vacant posts lead to a deterioration in the competence of the regions. The gift enhancement scheme is another example. The result is a biased distribution of public cultural crowns. Last year, Ost-Agder and Finnmark received NOK 25 000 each from that scheme. Oslo got almost $13 million. SEK, Hordaland 8 million. kr. It is a scheme that does not take geographical account, and it is a centralisation of state cultural resources. It contributes to less cultural activity in the districts and undermines the fact that the objective of mobilising on the cultural front is also to apply outside the major cities. Another good example, from another sector, is the Statistical Central Bureau. There is, as we all know, a large state institution, divided between two places, Oslo and Kongsvinger, with a traditional distribution of jobs of about 60 to 40. The SSB is one of the most important competence workplaces in the Kongsvinger region. With an existing competence environment and short travel distance to Oslo, there are good conditions for expanding the number of staff of the SSB in Kongswinger. The size has previously asked for a balance in the crew of the SSB between the two locations, and in the establishment of the SSB on Kongsvinger it was actually a prerequisite for all future job growth in the SSB to take place on Kongswinger. It hasn't been, but there's no reason not to keep the demand for balance between Kongswinger and Oslo. There is a lot of good and important expertise at the SSB in Kongswinger today, and there are good opportunities for new recruiting. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen a trend towards increasing imbalance between the crews of Kongswinger and Oslo. If it becomes more or less a practice that natural take-off on Kingswinger is not replaced by new employment, that balance is further distorted. It badly harmonizes with what is the intention behind this message, and what is the wish of this hall. The SSB on Kongsvinger has for decades been a success story for Norwegian state employment policy and is a good example of an enterprise that will benefit from the proposal that new jobs in existing businesses be established outside Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2947	‘By and land hand in hand’ is actually the Workers' Party slogan from 1933. Not all slogans are just as good, but in 2017 it's actually taking the whole country into use and into social development maybe more important than for a long time. This must be the case – the country must be linked – because the Norwegian economy is directly linked to our ability, willingness and ability to reap from our own resources. The basis for this well-being, which the Stortinget likes to distribute between departments and departments, lies in the resources given to us from nature, and the knowledge we have developed to harvest them and process them – values created in Norwegian districts and delivered to the markets of Norwegian cities, in Europe and in the rest of the world. The rural policy of the Workers' Party is linked to a clear metropolitan policy. The good interrelationship of these two policies is crucial for Norway as a national community and for our common identity. Without a policy for the whole country, Norway, as a community, will crack apart. With regard to government localisation policy, it shall contribute to the distribution of State jobs contributing to growth and value creation across the country. The aim must be to strengthen regional labour markets and to use localisation where workplaces will have the greatest potential to contribute to development and knowledge building in each region. Politics must serve people and land, and in our beautiful country, people live everywhere. Living and living in Norway offers both duties, rights and opportunities to live their own lives. But if these possibilities are restricted by where you live, and because of, for example, thin population base or long distances, this social contract is at risk. And it's the Stortinget that has to secure the social contract in all parts of the country, not centralize the sector and sell Norway bit by bit. It's the Norwegian social model and the urban-country alliance that has made us the world's best country to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2958	I finished my last post talking about urbanization. There is probably a broad consensus among all parties that we want to find good tools for unwanted centralization, but I would point out that in terms of the urbanization trend, there are elements in it that make us, for example. from a climate and environmental point of view, may lead to congestion around collective nodes, which are quite sensible and can provide soil protection. So it's also important that we use the advantages we can find in urbanization. Urban growth agreements are something we need to figure out, I think, to apply also to more and less cities, for many of us who come from the districts, see that so-called urban cities can counteract relocation to larger cities. It is important in municipalities and areas where demographic development is unfortunate, if you can gather around rural cities and thus create attractive housing and work regions. Then I am very pleased that the Council of State points out the UN's sustainability target from 2015. I have a study in my back in the fall – I got to be in the United Nations and go through this, and see that these will be decisions that will intervene in all areas of society. I am pleased that it is mentioned, and that it is taken into account. The 17 objectives are important for what is happening in your own country and in other parts of the world. It is clear that I am pleased that the Committee has now agreed on the green shift, that it should and must provide a positive development in District Norway. Norway has natural resources, competence and economic autonomy which, with the right decisions, can give us a leading role in the green shift. Another truth that we have to remind each other about is the availability of risk capital. Of course, it is important everywhere, but in District Norway in particular. That is why we need to bring forward mechanisms that promote innovation and bet on new industries. We must continue to do so and strengthen it. Finally, I would also like to mention what is the human driver of district policy, the fact that people find attractive places to live, and that they can come with the whole family: fundamental welfare services and a living voluntary work. I would therefore encourage everyone to facilitate volunteering and non-profit organisations. Finally, I would like to thank those who have taken part in the debate on an important matter for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2975	I want to go back to the relocation of state workplaces. Government Party notes that one has ambitions to strengthen efforts to locate state workplaces throughout the country. It's very happy. What's not happy is that the Labour Party doesn't agree with this. On the contrary, I believe that they are opposed to the extensive relocation of existing state enterprises. There must be a real blow on the faces of Labour Party politicians in the districts who have enjoyed what the government and the Left have done in this area, and not least what will happen in the future with a new civil government. When the government and the Left brought up the issue of the relocation of state jobs in February this year, strong reactions came from the LO and from central Labour Party politicians from Oslo. When one knows how strongly LO affects the Workers' Party, it is quite clear that they are going to block an extensive emigration in the next emigration period if the Workers' Party comes to power. In today's edition of the newspaper Glåmdalen, we can read that Centerpart-Leiter Schlagsvold Vedum promises the relocation of state-owned jobs in the SSB to Kongsvinger if they are controlled. This is contrary to what the Labour Party says in its comitology. Although the representative Helga Pedersen has a sense of this, it is nevertheless well suited for red-green root and lifting fractures. There are many examples of action teams of red-green politicians who have argued and have not been given a decision in the previous two red-green governments. In Sogn and Fjordane we have two good examples of it. We're all thinking about the red-green argument about traséval on the E39 that went on for years, and where one couldn't make a decision. The same thing happened in connection with the mineral extraction in Engebøjellet, where the red-green quarrel continued for several years, and where one could not take a decision – total action paralysis from the red-green side, in other words. Now we see the recording to the same thing. Crane between the Workers' Party and the Centre on extensive relocations of state jobs will prevent this from happening, and hence the districts that are losing. Elles is interesting to follow the reverse part of the Workers' Party also in other matters in Sogn and Fjordane. To NRK Sogn and Fjordane, Helga Pedersen said that Sogn and Fjordane will not be merged with Hordaland with the Labour Party in government if they do not want to. It is clear that the Labour Party, both at the state and at national level, is looking for issues that are to be addressed for the progress of the Centre Party, and then there are no limits to what is to be reversed by the Labour Party. It will be exciting to see if the voters want a reversing policy and a red-green root when they go to the polling room in September, or if they want to carry out all the necessary and forward-looking reforms to ensure well-being and to create positive developments across the country over the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e2992	In the Central Party's proposal for a representative, Document 8:44, we ask that the government launch an investigation into how the distribution of government jobs affects regional disparities. It is generally accepted that regional inequalities in health, living conditions and employment have underlying causes for variations in working life. It is therefore important to develop a varied working life in all parts of the country. Much may indicate that development is going in the wrong direction. Government competence workplaces are being drawn out by many municipalities. We regret that there is no wider support in the Committee to follow up the proposal of the Centre Party. A public inquiry into the impact of state employment on regional disparities would be important for the further development of district policy. The majority of the Committee has chosen to listen to the Council of States, which, in its rejection of the proposal, refers to the 2011 suspension of the Committee of Competence Workplaces. This selection was mandated to propose measures to ensure that skilled jobs and new state jobs were spread throughout the country. It is an important work, but they did not have a mandate and did not respond to how the distribution of government jobs affects regional inequalities. If we are to receive an answer to that, the Stortinget must support our request to the government to start an investigation work. Today's government is much better at relocating state jobs than the red-green was – we have heard that many times now in the debate here. It's a truth with great modifications iceped a good deal of creative mathematics. The Government’s plan for the location of state workplaces is attached to the Report. Art. No. 18th@item: inlistbox It has the support of the Left, and we are very pleased with the relocation plans presented. Upon closer inspection, it turns out that there is not so much to brag about. In the evening post in February, the figures were broken down. In fact, there were 236 jobs to be moved out – i.e. those that were not newly established. Of them, 96 were to move out to the district. The remaining 60 pst. went to Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger. It can't be called a District Norway lift. New jobs are good in these cities, but we have to spread state jobs across the country if we're going to be able to do something about spreading the settlement. So the Council of State says that moving to Ås can't count on – it's too close to Oslo. But moving to Drammen can be counted by. The movement to Thinset, which was adopted under the red-green government, cannot count, but the reduced movement with which the blue-blue finally carried out, it must count. At the same time, there have been 4,000 new jobs in Oslo. I am very pleased with the relocation of jobs, whether it's to Trondheim or to smaller municipalities, but even better it would have been if we hadn't increased the number of government jobs in Oslo so strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3008	The representative Lødemel talked about reverse parts. For a moment I wondered if he had a mirror up on the pulpit, because it's now really the Right and the Advance Party – at least if one pulls out some of it all, the most important thing for District Norway now, and it's getting a real broadband expansion. The last year from the red-green budget, it was 160 million. kr. The first thing that the blue-blue government did was reduce to 50 million. kr on a national basis. The size plus. But the government had not learned, because it was important to bring down the appropriations, so that the market could sort it out. There were once again suggestions of 50 million. kr the following year – and Stortinget added. There is a huge need for us now to have a completely different broadband development – and at a completely different pace. The Workers' Party has provided a proper basis for this in its new party programme. We're going to deliver, because this is very important for business, for the population, for the housing and for the kids, who are going to do their homework to hang out at school. In fact, it's so important that it's about participation in society. I heard Sanner say something that is going well in Uppland. Rarely – there is a lot of good going on in Uppland. It's a great state, so great that it's the country's largest travel company, with almost 50,000 cabins, and we have world-class industry in several areas – but we need to be lubricated a little bit, so do we. But we're being ignored because it's so low unemployment. What Sanner fails to say is that there are 1,600 fewer employed in Uppland now than it was when we left the government offices – 1,600 fewer. It's serious. The thing is, in the private sector, employment has fallen, while in the public sector it has grown somewhat. So about local economy, because I hear some boasts of it, among other things. Chairman of the Committee. It was just to be missing that one had not delivered at the level that is now. I would remind you that we have averaged approx. Three billion. kr over each year. There's a lot of money – every year. What also belongs to history, and almost trumps any representation from civil society, is that one now spends 100 billion. kr more oil money. Then it would certainly be lacking that one is not at that level – which I still call a significant savings blouse for primary municipalities and for our county municipalities, which have not least a major roadside responsibility. There are many reasons why we have to change our government. Not least, the blue-blue government is a loss project for my home country. It is clear on all polls and the whole thing that a change is wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3021	This needs to be a fairly broad debate, which deals in itself with both the private and the public sectors. In the first three years of this government’s reign, the mantra was largely ‘structural reforms’, changes that, in total, resulted in — and will result in — strong centralisation. But I have noticed that for the past six months, the new mantra to the Right – and especially the Prime Minister – has been that we are now launching the visions of ‘digitalised Norway’. Most recently, the Prime Minister has been out in the newspapers talking about how fast things are going to go, how broken it is with politicians who are against technology development, and how important it is to have some visions for digitised Norway. It is easy to agree that technology development is going to go fast, it is easy to agree that Norway is gradually becoming a digitised country. But when the Prime Minister sets out a number of assumptions for digitised Norway, she forgets the basics — which have been mentioned in the debate here today — namely the infrastructure, broadband. There is no point in digitising Norway without everyone having access to the infrastructure needed if one is to receive a digitised Norway. In the line change today, the Council of State met with questions about broadband. And that's right, the means to that are greatly reduced. The counties get much less than they report as needed. Sights about the Nord-Trøndelag were highlighted by the Council of State as a state that has been nice, they get far less than what is necessary in order to expand more broadband in the county. The latest coverage report, from 2016, is an alert on what is about to happen. We're getting a digital class distinction geographically. While the expansion of high-speed broadband – i.e. over 30 Mbit/s – reaches over 95 pst. in Akershus and Oslo, when it reaches below 70 p.m. in the counties, inter alia: in my own home country. This applies to both fibre expansion and other broadband deployment, but not least to mobile coverage. We can confidently encourage those people across the country who sit with good ideas and creativity. Contributing to increased productivity, development and value creation is their task, but they do not have the opportunity to do so without the basic infrastructure being in place – and it must be accessible to all. One of the most dangerous things we face if we want to realize the digitised Norway is that digitised Norway is just becoming a part of the population of this country, and that we have already established a geographical class distinction in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3036	I want to follow up on broadband, because it is also one of the main areas of activity for SV. We've had a lot of effort on that in our alternative budget. There is reason to ask both the Council of State and the majority if you really think it is possible with strong districts without a modern broadband. Several studies have now shown that the degree of urbanisation is quite crucial for this to be commercially developed. Large parts of the country are not commercially expandable. In particular in counties such as: Upland and Hedmark, which are very widely populated, are the major flaws. Then it's quite serious, and it has to be quite embarrassing for the government, with the big cuts they've made on broadband development – because this is the modern thing, to say the least. For those who are now talking about reversing: Broadband is the modern, whether you are going to run school, run a business — or completely private. To these proposals that SV has been involved in promoting together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, which is that the government should explain how they actually practice their own policies of relocation, the Council of State answers that he has nothing to do with it; it is quite up to the government parties in the Stortinget. Then I have to ask them: why do you not agree with these proposals, which are about explaining the regulatory framework that you have – how it has turned out in different cases, among other things. also internally in Oslo? The SSB has now been established in a non-priority area, while it should have moved to the Groruddalen, as the guidelines say. Why isn't that done? I'm glad that more of the Workers' Party are up and talking about the SSB and Kongswinger, because it's absolutely necessary to get this done – that you get built out there now, because there are changes going on internally, and those jobs are going to end up in Oslo if you don't make sure that they're added to Kongswinger, where there's a great competence environment. That's what was the premise when this was established many years ago. So to decentralised higher education, which is absolutely vital. I also miss the fact that the Council of State and representatives of the government parties and the supporting parties say something concrete about this. This is an instrument which is essential if we are to be able to serve businesses and the public sector in the districts with skilled labour. And that's what I expect you to do, because if you don't, that means you have an active centralization policy. I guess it's not that far away from the Right and the Advance Party really will, but that the Christian People's Party and the Left are part of it, I'm more amazed at it. Finally, SV will support the proposal made by the Central Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3049	Right-wing calls for the Workers' Party to carry out a comprehensive relocation of State jobs from Oslo. It would have been understandable if the Right itself had suggested it, but they don't. 200 jobs are proposed by the government to move out of the capital. We agree to that, but calling it a comprehensive relocation of state jobs is nonsense, because it's actually not. It is similar to the state jobs lost by Vadsø, Flora and Kautokeino during this period of the Right and Advance Party in government. When you see it in the light of 1,000 new state bureaucrats, it's not very impressive, the Right Party and the Advance Party have created. There is still a strong policy of centralisation in the location of state jobs. I also record that the Right is trying to construct a conflict between the Workers' Party and the Centre in terms of the environment on Kongsvinger. It's just wrong. Here you can rather explain how they relate to the leaders of Stortinget about the distribution of jobs between Oslo and Kongsvinger. In the case of Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane and the merging of the states, I thank you for the question. In the Memorandum of Understanding between Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane, which is the basis for the two states deciding to merge, it was among other things. assuming that the county office was to be moved to Leikanger in Sogn and Fjordane. As the government has not followed up on the content of the commitment agreement through the enlargement of the new division of counties, the connection of Sogn and Fjordane to the coup d'état is now gone. What was a voluntary merger is no longer that, and we in the Workers' Party are listening to people where they live, in the municipalities and in the counties. In the case of road, the progress party promised 45 billion. kr more annually during this period. It has not been delivered – a breach of lift in the state after the state. And when it comes to trying to make wealth taxes into district policy, well, good luck with that. I suggest that the Progress Party borrows the calculator from the Right, so they can calculate how much wealth tax Bærum and Oslo west get, and then you can compare it to the cuts in property tax in Finnmark, Uppland and Nord-Trøndelag. I am pleased to hear the result. In North Norway, there is low leave. It's not because of the government's efforts. It reflects the fact that in North Norway there are still few jobs related to oil and gas. The employment rate falls more north than in the rest of the country, and there should be a warning for the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3062	Sometimes during this debate, which has been very leaping, I have wondered if we are in the same country. At least there can be little doubt as to what the Workers' Party has promoted by proposals in this Committee during this period, where they have agreed to move out new state jobs, but where they have been opposed to relocating existing state jobs. The centre party doesn't have that attitude, but I think it's a rather strange kind of debate technique that's being carried out here. We should at least be responsible for what we've been doing during the period. I noticed that there was a big debate about broadband now. For the left, it's been important all along. We have also done additions, as part of a large majority, as mentioned, for broadband is important. It's also important to have the mixing model that we have in many states. However, it is not possible to assume that taxes, wealth taxes, framework conditions and, in particular, the EEA Agreement – especially for Coast Norway – are very important, including for the maritime food industry. With a very large centre party – per today – it's exciting to look forward and see how it's going to happen to the coast if you're going to cancel what's done in many ways, and that might be what makes us have the opportunities on the coast that we have. Entering into the EEA Agreement will be a very special and demanding issue for coastal industries. Yes, there's a digitization going on, and we think it's a necessity. However, it is also necessary — as part of the debate fails to mention — to have some structures that point forward. Then there is also a necessity in terms of how to direct a society further. I understand that many people don't want to take that debate. What's most surprising is that the Workers' Party in many ways comes out of it. The attitude of the centre party does not surprise me – it is well known and has been known for a long time. But that the Workers' Party is going for this and in many ways wants to be a 'light-version' of the Center Party, surprises me. Otherwise, the Left will vote against IV in the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3075	Helga Pedersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3080	I was just going to say a little bit about how we've been going to wrestle. With regard to proposals Nos. 6 and 8 are the proposals that we are in principle in favour of, but which we will consider in the annual budget proposals. Proposal No. 7, on volunteering in the municipal structure, we're going to vote in favour. When it comes to investigating the regional importance of state jobs, we think that we know enough about that, there is no need to investigate any more, here one has to implement. Finally, I would like to thank you for the debate. This is a debate that represents the long lines of policy in many ways. That year in the 1930s when the Workers' Party launched the slogan "By and Land Hand at Hand", the right-wing slogan had the following slogans: It's your tax money the socialists are looking forward to. Here I find that both the Workers' Party and the Right stand firmly in their messages from then on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3093	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox Case No. 10–15 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3169	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 10–15.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3187	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Jorodd Asphjell, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 9, from Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that support and assistance to the police and other civil society should to a large extent be a governing factor for the arrangement and dimensioning of some of the defence structures and capabilities, such as home security, special forces, cyber defence and helicopter capabilities.’; The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3215	There is a vote on proposal No. 3 and proposals Nos. 6-8, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a national strategy for several regional training centres for police, defence, emergency and non-governmental organisations.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to strengthen the activities of the Police Security Service against Terrorism and to strengthen cooperation with the Intelligence Service and the National Security Authority and to require joint threat assessment to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public body to develop a national strategy on security and overall preparedness, including efforts to harmonise the responsibilities of the various response actors.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the government to return to the Grand Duchy in the context of the 2018 budget with a plan for the establishment of a national centre to prevent and combat ICT crime.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3249	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2, 4 and 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to complete and put into operation a text-based emergency communication system available to all.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate a universally designed warning system throughout the country, which can be used by municipalities and states in the event of major and minor crises.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen its competence in cybersecurity and to clarify the necessary roles and responsibilities in the management of cyber-related crises that may affect institutions of social critical importance.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that cybersecurity is specifically assessed in the development and operation of new public services and systems’.» The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3315	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mrs Klinge on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Board requests the Government to submit proposals to maintain the jury system in the judicial system.’ The Left and the Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3729	The centre party and the left have announced that they will vote against it. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the suspension. The Green Party has also announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3745	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The centre party and the left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3759	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3768	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposal No 3, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 61 L [[Delivery of information from the PST to the E service]] The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3796	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose the necessary legislative changes that limit the power to decide the provision of information obtained through hidden methods from the PST to the E service, to the Chief or Assistant Chief of the PST’. The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3815	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the government to come back with an assessment of whether subsequent judicial review should be carried out in cases where PST provides information to the E service obtained through the use of hidden coercive agents’. The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3893	The centre party and the left have announced that they will vote against it. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3907	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The centre party and the left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3921	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e3946	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals that guarantee free legal aid to individuals if they wish — or must — to intervene in cases where the municipality is suing the State’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e4141	The fourth sentence is added to Section 34, second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e4151	We're going to vote over the rest of I, and we're going to add up to x. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e4165	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e4179	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e4188	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Frank J. Jenssen on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Left proposal No 2, by Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to legislate that the Board of Senior Officials and advice for persons with disabilities cannot be merged.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e4277	Alternatively, between the A I of the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘In the Municipal Act, Section 10(b) is replaced by the following: § 10 b Advice for the elderly, persons with disabilities and young people The local authority and county council shall select an elderly council and a council for persons with disabilities. The majority of the members of the Board of Senior Citizens shall have reached the age of 60 at the time of the election. The local authority or county council may choose a youth council itself. The Youth Council shall have a term of office of up to two years. Members of the Youth Council shall not have reached the age of 19 at the time of election. Councils are advisory bodies of the municipality or county and have the right to comment on matters relating to the elderly, persons with disabilities and young people respectively. The local authority or county council may itself establish a different participation scheme for young people than a youth council. The second subparagraph, the second and third sentences and the third subparagraphs shall apply mutatis mutandis to the term of office and tasks of such other participation and the term of office of representatives of the scheme. The Ministry shall lay down the tasks, organisation and procedure of the Councils and of another youth participation scheme.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e4308	There appears to have been several votes wrong. We're going to vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e4321	The remainder of A — all remaining Roman numerals are voried over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e4331	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e4341	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B The government is asking the government to ensure that the legislation does not prevent municipalities and county councils from providing guidelines which give the councils an expanded role, for example. budgetary resources for distribution, speech and proposal rights in meetings of the local/communautaire, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e4352	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e4369	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Frode Helgerud on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Frode Helgerud on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Left proposal No 11, from Frode Helgerud on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party the proposals No 5-10, from Jan Bøhler on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 12 and 13, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 14 and 15, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5442	Alternatively, point (g) of the first paragraph of paragraph 7 of the A section 7 shall be substituted for proposal No 13, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of point (g) of Section 7 of the Ownership Act shall be replaced by the following: g) it is provided that each compartment is to be used for housing or industry and the intended use is in accordance with the spatial plan objective and planning provisions, or other uses for which authorisation has been granted.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5461	Alternatively, the first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 7 of Section A and the proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 7 shall be replaced by the following: In the case of an application for housing section, the applicant shall be subject to authorisation only if each compartment is a legally established housing unit under the Planning and Building Act and has the kitchen, bathroom and toilet in the main part of the use unit, and the common areas for housing sections in the building comply with minimum requirements under the Planning and Building Act.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5482	Alternatively, the first paragraph of Section 23 of the A clause and proposal No 3 from the Right, the Party of Advances and the Left. The President refers to the correction in the text of the statements made by the President during the debate. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The first paragraph of Section 23 of the Ownership Act is replaced by the following: No one may purchase or otherwise acquire more than two housing compartments in the same holding.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5503	Alternatively, between the A § 24 of the adjustment and proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 24 of the Ownership Act is replaced by the following: § 24 Right of legal disposition of the section winner The section owner has free access to his or her own section with the constraints arising from the joint relationship and this law. The section owner can freely sell, pledge and rent out his own section. The section holder may also attach serviettes, pre-emptive rights or other rights of resolution to the section and make other legal arrangements over the section. The right of jurisdiction of the section owners over the sections may be restricted in the statutes if those affected agree to the restriction. Such restrictions may also be laid down in agreements between section owners or in agreements between section owners and third parties. Where the statutes provide that the Management Board shall approve a new section or the owner of a section, the Management Board may refuse approval only if there are factual reasons. The conditions referred to in Section 6 are never a factual reason to refuse approval. Although the statutes prohibit the acquisition by legal persons of compartments, the following legal persons may acquire together up to 10 per cent, but nevertheless at least one housing section, of holdings composed of five or more compartments: (a) the State; (b) counties c) municipalities (d) companies which are intended to provide housing and which are managed and controlled by the State, a county or municipality; (e) foundations designed to provide housing and established by the State, a county or municipality; (f) companies, foundations or others which have concluded an agreement with the State, a county or municipality to provide housing for disadvantaged persons. The fourth paragraph shall apply mutatis mutandis where there is a limitation on the number of sections that any person may own. Any right of pre-emption may not be exercised when a dwelling section is transferred from an owner referred to in the fourth subparagraph to a tenant of the compartment.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5557	The third and fourth sentence of Section A of the second paragraph of the second paragraph of paragraph 25 of the adjustment shall be added to the vote. The President also refers to the correction in the text of the statements made by the rapporteur during the debate. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5573	The fourth sentence of the first paragraph of Section 29 shall be deleted. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5587	Alternatively, the second sentence of Section A of the first paragraph of the first paragraph is replaced by the second sentence of proposal No. 11, from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 31 is replaced by the following: The amount of the claim may not exceed, for each unit of use, the basic amount of the public interest at the time the enforcement is decided on.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5606	It is votted over A § 33.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5616	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third and fourth sentences of the third paragraph of Section 33 shall be replaced by the following: With the approval of the joint meeting, such an obligation may also be agreed upon. The contract may be terminated without delay for a period not exceeding 10 years.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5637	Alternatively, the third paragraph of Section 43 of the A clause and the proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third paragraph of Section 43 of the Law on Ownership is replaced by the following: The notice shall be published in writing. The statutes may provide that, instead of or in addition, the convocation shall be carried out by other means. Section owners who do not use the unit of use themselves shall in all cases be required to call in writing. A written notice may be made to section owners who have consented to it by electronic means.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5659	Alternatively, the A section 45 third sentence of the adjustment and the proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third sentence of Section 45 of the Ownership Act is replaced by the following: However, the fact that the matter is not mentioned in the notice does not prevent the decision to convene a new annual meeting to decide on proposals made at the meeting.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5680	Alternatively, point (b) of the second paragraph of Section A of the A clause 49 and proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section (b) of Section 49 of the Second paragraph is replaced by the following: (b) conversion of common areas into units of use, extension of existing units of use, change of unit of use which would require a change of common area if all units of use were changed in the same way, change of unit of use entailing an increase in the cost of operation or maintenance of common area or change of unit of use conditional on a use of common area other than that for which the common area was calculated.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5703	Alternatively, the second paragraph of Section 50 of Section A of the adjustment and proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 50 of the Ownership Act is replaced by the following: If the measures referred to in the first subparagraph involve overall financial responsibilities or expenses for individual section owners of more than half of the basic amount of the public interest at the time the action is decided, the action may only be implemented if those section owners agree to it. This shall not apply if the measure is already clearly based for the purposes of the Statute of the Joint Undertaking or other provisions of the Statute adopted with the agreement of all the Joint Undertakings.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5724	Alternatively, the second paragraph of Section A.64 of the adjustment and proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 64 of the Ownership Act is replaced by the following: In conjunction with 9 or more sections, the Management Board shall ensure that annual accounts and annual reports are kept and drawn up in accordance with the provisions laid down in or in accordance with the Accounting Act.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5743	Alternatively, the first paragraph of Section A.65 of the adjustment and the proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 65 of the Ownership Act is replaced by the following: The joint owner of 9 or more compartments shall have one or more State-authorised or registered auditors. In conjunction with 8 or fewer sections, the annual meeting may be decided by a normal majority of the votes cast to have an auditor elected by the annual meeting.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5763	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Eyersektionsgesetz § 68 Changes in other laws No. 3 is replaced by the following: 3rd@item: inlistbox In Law 27 June 2008 No. 71 on planning and processing of construction works, § 12-7, first paragraph, No. 2 is replaced by the following: conditions for the use of land, buildings and installations in the area of the plan, or the prohibition of uses, including building boundaries, in order to promote or safeguard the purpose of the plan, to balance interests and to take account of different considerations in or on grounds relating to non-planning conditions, and to prohibit the compartmentalisation of tourist facilities. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5790	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with proposals for legislation for the short-term rental of housing sections’. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5808	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a legislative proposal to ensure that the Stortinget’s intention is followed with a restriction on the acquisition of housing pools’. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5826	The remainder of the setting is A.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5836	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5846	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B The majority asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a comprehensive bill that assesses the issue of hygiene both in the ownership law and in the planning and building law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5858	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced subsidiary support.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5872	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-4, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, by Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left the proposals No 6-9, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make changes to the exercise of State authority through a reduction in control and reporting requirements for the benefit of more trust-based systems.’ The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5906	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish its own grant schemes for decentralised higher education to the counties, in addition to the grant schemes available through higher education institutions and universities, and also to propose ways of strengthening the financing of such decentralised services in general.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5923	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to contribute to green business conversion by providing Enova, Investinor, Innovation Norway, etc. greater resources and instruments to contribute to migration.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch a public inquiry into how the distribution of State jobs affects regional disparities in areas such as education, social differences and employment.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5947	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks that any change in the municipal structure be based on voluntary activity through local initiatives and processes’.» The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5966	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to stimulate increased logging and planting through tax legislation, depreciation rules and the possibility of fund provisions. Research and development of new uses of wood fibre must be given greater attention and financial support.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e5984	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to ensure that new state institutions and new jobs in existing establishments not linked to the provision of services to the capital’s population are established outside Oslo and that smaller towns and cities are also involved in the location of state jobs.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked in the draft budget to explain how the government’s guidelines on the location of state jobs have been used in concrete cases.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the geographical location of jobs in cases where changes in tasks and responsibilities lead to changes in the geographical location of jobs, to explain the number of jobs involved and to determine the geographical distribution.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The budget proposals require the government to provide an overview of new state jobs established in Oslo, the distribution in the capital and elsewhere in the country.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e6043	The vote shall take place at the I, II and III positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e6053	There is a vote on the IV of the setting. The Right, the Progressive Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e6071	The result is that 45 voted in favour and 56 voted against the Committee’s position, which means that the vote was not supported. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e6092	Case No. 10–15 are the second time legal proceedings, and apply to legislative acts 81 to 86. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at second reading, and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-29.ana.ud96e6108	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
